FARE WARNING PUSHES EASYJET SHARES LOWER
FARE WARNING PUSHES EASYJET SHARES LOWER
Investors Chronicle
February 28, 2003
Copyright 2003 Financial Times Business Limited
Section: ISSN. 0261-3115
Length: 163 words
Body
 EasyJet warned investors this week that average fares would be lower than the City had expected. The low-cost 
airline said that fares in the four months to January were 6 per cent below last year because it tried to increase the 
number of seats being filled by Go, the low-cost rival that it bought last year.
EasyJet's shares fell 14 per cent to 213p.
 EasyJet's problems seem to be worsening. It indicated that, for the half-year to March, average fares would 
probably be down by around 8 per cent - the same as recently reported by Ryanair. Analysts at BNP Paribas cut 
full-year EPS forecasts by 9 per cent to 18.5p. EasyJet isn't as capable of absorbing lower fares as Ryanair 
because it has higher costs - the result of flying to more popular airports.
 IC VIEW
 The scale of fare reductions was surprising, vindicating the critics of last year's Go acquisition. But the deal still 
makes long-term strategic sense and, on a forward PE of 12, the shares are worth holding on to.
Load-Date: January 22, 2004
End of Document
Ryanair deal unsettles investors
Ryanair deal unsettles investors
Investors Chronicle
February 6, 2003
Copyright 2003 Financial Times Business Limited
Section: ISSN. 0261-3115
Length: 717 words
Body
Europes low-cost airline industry has taken its second major step to consolidation with the acquisition of KLM-
owned Buzz by Irish carrier, Ryanair. The deal unsettled the City as the planned takeover marks a departure from 
the groups previous organic growth strategy. Uncertainties over easyJets acquisition of Go last year have pushed 
easyJets share price lower.
But there is merit in the deal. Ryanair buys slots at its existing base at Stansted, which are increasingly difficult to 
obtain as the airport fills up. And sharing bases with Buzz adds to economies of scale as well as providing 
opportunities to launch new routes and increase frequencies.
And the deal is cheap. Ryanair could have waited for the loss-making Buzz to fold naturally before picking up the 
pieces, but a gross price tag of (GBP) 16m hardly stretches a company with net cash of (GBP) 44m.
Integration shouldnt be too tough either, as Ryanair plans to leave Buzz as a separate firm, effectively a sub-
contractor, rather than integrate it fully intoits business as easyJet is doing with Go.
But integration wont be quite as straightforward as Ryanair chief executive Michael OLeary claims. Buzz, unlike 
Ryanair, will remain unionised, and unions like the British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa) are unlikely to take job 
cuts of 20 per cent lying down. Labour unrest has a history of wreaking havoc inthe airline industry and could 
scupper the deal.
But Mr OLeary is taking no prisoners."For those that dont want to sign on to the programme, the door is over there," 
he said."If Balpa want to go on strike on 1 April, it wont be a case of sacking them, well just close down Buzz." By 
closing Buzz, Ryanair would keep the landing slots but lose the troublesome staff.
The success of Ryanairs plan depends on cutting unprofitable routes, shedding staff and doubling the carriers traffic 
to 4m passengers this year, thereby pushing Buzz into the black. Analysts at Merrill Lynch estimate that Buzzs 
losses are 12 per cent of Ryanairs profits. So any slippage could force analyststo downgrade their Ryanair 
forecasts. For such a highly-rated airline, the impact on credibility would be massive.
"They cannot afford to let this drag on," says Gert Zonneveld, transport analyst at WestLB Panmure. But he says"I 
dont think we should be looking at profit warnings. It wont reach that stage as theyll shut Buzz down. Ryanair is 
playing a very hard game at the moment."
Ryanair deal unsettles investors
The Buzz deal is the second major takeover in the low-cost sector, dividing Europe between Ryanair and easyJet. 
Consolidation had been expected for some time but, as Mr OLeary puts it, the concept of low-cost travel"is 
spreading likea virus over Europe", and that has tempted new entrants into the market. Tour operators have been 
particularly keen to get in to stop market share erosion.
But dont expect any more takeovers just yet. Many budget airlines are just not big enough to hit the radar of the big 
players, and their viability is not assured. One Scandinavian player has already gone bust and, given the problems 
in the rest of its business, MyTravels commitment to its airline MyTraveLite is questionable. Even easyJet, which 
has taken an option to buy British Airways Deutsche BA subsidiary, is believed to be getting cold feet.
Ryanair plays down war risks
Ryanair also published impressive third-quarter results this week, in marked contrast to the gloomy news from 
elsewhere in the sector.
Although revenue growth for the nine months to December slowed to 37 per cent, good cost-control meant that 
profits still advanced 45 per cent to E47.8m.Growth should continue - January traffic figures showed passenger 
growth of 55 per cent - and advanced bookings from the new base at Milan Bergamo indicate that around four-fifths 
of all seats offered will be filled.
The main risk is war. Mr OLeary says hes"not hugely concerned" as advanced bookings are good. And fuel looks 
well hedged at 20 per cent below spot prices for the rest of the year. But even he admits that there could be 
problems if wardrags on or leads to more terrorism.
IC VIEW
The shares have fallen back recently, but still trade on a demanding forward PE of 21. The Buzz deal looks decent 
and these financial results were excellent.But, with the uncertainties of war ahead, the shares are fairly priced.
Load-Date: February 13, 2003
End of Document