AWS Announces Five New Amazon SageMaker Capabilities for Scaling with Models Amazon SageMaker 
HyperPod reduces time to train foundation models by up to 40% by p....
AWS Announces Five New Amazon SageMaker Capabilities for Scaling with 
Models; Amazon SageMaker HyperPod reduces time to train foundation 
models by up to 40% by providing purpose-built infrastructure for 
distributed training at scale; Amazon SageMaker Inference reduces 
foundation model deployment costs by 50% on average and latency by 20% 
on average by optimizing the use of accelerators; Amazon SageMaker 
Clarify now makes it easier for customers to evaluate and select foundation 
models quickly based on parameters that support responsible use of AI; 
Amazon SageMaker Canvas capabilities help customers accelerate data 
preparation using natural-language instructions and model building using 
foundation models in just a few clicks; BMW Group, Booking.com, Hugging 
Face, Perplexity, Salesforce, Stability AI, and Vanguard among the 
customers and partners using new Amazon SageMaker capabilities
Business Wire
November 29, 2023 Wednesday 5:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 3165 words
Dateline: LAS VEGAS 
Body
At AWS re:Invent, Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS), an Amazon.com, Inc. company (NASDAQ: AMZN), today 
announced five new capabilities within Amazon SageMaker to help accelerate building, training, and deployment of 
large language models and other foundation models. As models continue to transform customer experiences 
across industries, SageMaker is making it easier and faster for organizations to build, train, and deploy machine 
learning (ML) models that power a variety of generative AI uses cases. However, to use models successfully, 
customers need advanced capabilities that efficiently manage model development, usage, and performance. 
That's why most industry leading models such as Falcon 40B and 180B, IDEFICS, Jurassic-2, Stable Diffusion, and 
StarCoder are all trained on SageMaker. Today's announcements include a new capability that further enhances 
SageMaker for scaling with models by accelerating model training time. Another new SageMaker capability 
optimizes managed ML infrastructure operations by reducing deployment costs and latency of models. AWS is also 
introducing a new SageMaker Clarify capability that makes it easier to select the right model based on quality 
parameters that support responsible use of AI. To help customers apply these models across organizations, AWS is 
also introducing a new no-code capability in SageMaker Canvas that makes it faster and easier for customers to 
prepare data using natural-language instructions. Additionally, SageMaker Canvas continues to democratize model 
AWS Announces Five New Amazon SageMaker Capabilities for Scaling with Models Amazon SageMaker 
HyperPod reduces time to train foundation models by up to 40% by p....
building and customization by making it easier for customers to use models to extract insights, make predictions, 
and generate content using an organization's proprietary data. These advancements build on SageMaker's 
extensive capabilities to help customers innovate with ML at scale. To get started with Amazon SageMaker, visit 
aws.amazon.com/sagemaker .
Recent advancements in ML, along with ready availability of scalable compute capacity and the massive 
proliferation of data, have led to the rise of models that contain billions of parameters, making them capable of 
performing a wide range of tasks like writing blog posts, generating images, solving math problems, engaging in 
dialog, and answering questions based on a document. Today, tens of thousands of customers like 3M, 
AstraZeneca, Ferrari, LG AI Research, RyanAir, Thomson Reuters, and Vanguard are using SageMaker to make 
more than 1.5 trillion inference requests every month. In addition, customers like AI21 Labs, Stability AI, and 
Technology Innovation Institute are using SageMaker to train models with up to billions of parameters. As 
customers move from building mostly task-specific models to the large, general-purpose models that power 
generative AI, they work with massive datasets and more complex infrastructure setups-all while optimizing for cost 
and performance. Customers also want to build and customize their own models to create unique customer 
experiences, embodying the company's voice, style, and services. With more than 380 capabilities and features 
added since the service was launched in 2017, SageMaker offers customers everything they need to build, train, 
and deploy production-ready models at scale.
"Machine learning is one of the most profound technological developments in recent history, and interest in models 
has spread to every organization," said Bratin Saha, vice president of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at 
AWS. "This growth in interest is presenting new scaling challenges for customers who want to build, train, and 
deploy models faster. From accelerating training, optimizing hosting costs, reducing latency, and simplifying the 
evaluation of foundation models, to expanding our no-code model-building capabilities, we are on a mission to 
democratize access to high-quality, cost-efficient machine learning models for organizations of all sizes. With 
today's announcements, we are enhancing Amazon SageMaker with fully managed, purpose-built capabilities that 
help customers make the most of their machine learning investments."
New capabilities make it easier and faster for customers to train and operate models to power their generative AI 
applications
As generative AI continues to gain momentum, many emerging applications will rely on models. But most 
organizations struggle to adapt their infrastructure to meet the demands of these new models, which can be difficult 
to train and operate efficiently at scale. Today, SageMaker is adding two new capabilities that help ease the 
burdens of training and deploying models at scale.
•
SageMaker HyperPod accelerates FM training at scale: Many organizations want to train their own models 
using graphics processing units (GPU)-based and Trainium-based compute instances at low cost. 
However, the volume of data, size of the models, and time required for training models has exponentially 
increased the complexity of training a model, requiring customers to further adapt their processes to deal 
with these emerging demands. Customers often need to split their model training across potentially 
hundreds or thousands of accelerators. They then run trillions of data computations in parallel for weeks or 
months at a time, which is time consuming and requires specialized ML expertise. The number of 
accelerators and training time increases substantially compared to training task-specific models, so the 
likelihood of rare, small errors, like a single accelerator failure, compounds. These errors can disrupt the 
entire training process and require manual intervention to identify, isolate, debug, repair, and recover from 
the issue, further delaying progress. During the FM training process, customers are frequently required to 
pause, evaluate ongoing performance, and make optimizations to the training code. For uninterrupted 
model training, developers have to continuously save training progress (commonly known as 
checkpointing), so they don't lose progress and can resume training from where they last left off. These 
challenges increase the time it takes to train a model, driving up costs and delaying the deployment of new 
generative AI innovations. SageMaker HyperPod removes the undifferentiated heavy lifting involved in 
building and optimizing ML infrastructure for training models, reducing training time by up to 40%. 
AWS Announces Five New Amazon SageMaker Capabilities for Scaling with Models Amazon SageMaker 
HyperPod reduces time to train foundation models by up to 40% by p....
SageMaker HyperPod is pre-configured with SageMaker's distributed training libraries that enable 
customers to automatically split training workloads across thousands of accelerators, so workloads can be 
processed in parallel for improved model performance. SageMaker HyperPod also ensures customers can 
continue model training uninterrupted by periodically saving checkpoints. When a hardware failure occurs 
during training, SageMaker HyperPod automatically detects the failure, repairs or replaces the faulty 
instance, and resumes the training from the last saved checkpoint, removing the need for customers to 
manually manage this process and helping them train for weeks or months in a distributed setting without 
disruption.
•
SageMaker Inference reduces model deployment costs and latency: As organizations deploy models, they 
are constantly looking for ways to optimize their performance. To reduce deployment costs and decrease 
response latency, customers use SageMaker to deploy models on the latest ML infrastructure accelerators, 
including AWS Inferentia and GPUs. However, some models do not fully utilize the accelerators available 
with those instances, leading to an inefficient use of hardware resources. Some organizations also deploy 
multiple models to the same instance to better utilize all of the available accelerators, but this requires 
complex infrastructure orchestration that is time consuming and difficult to manage. When multiple models 
share the same instance, each model has its own scaling needs and usage patterns, making it challenging 
to predict when customers need to add or remove instances. For example, one model may be used to 
power an application where usage can spike during certain hours, while another model may have a more 
consistent usage pattern. In addition to optimizing costs, customers want to provide the best end-user 
experience by reducing latency. Because models outputs could range from a single sentence to an entire 
blog post, the time it takes to complete the inference request varies significantly, leading to unpredictable 
spikes in latency if the requests are routed randomly between instances. SageMaker now supports new 
inference capabilities that help customers reduce deployment costs and latency. With these new 
capabilities, customers can deploy multiple models to the same instance to better utilize the underlying 
accelerators, reducing deployment costs by 50% on average. Customers can also control scaling policies 
for each model separately, making it easier to adapt to model usage patterns while optimizing 
infrastructure costs. SageMaker actively monitors instances that are processing inference requests and 
intelligently routes requests based on which instances are available, achieving 20% lower inference latency 
on average.
New capability helps customers evaluate any model and select the best one for their use case
Today, customers have a wide range of options when choosing a model to power their generative AI applications, 
and they want to compare these models quickly to find the best option based on relevant quality and responsible AI 
parameters (e.g., accuracy, fairness, and robustness). However, when comparing models that perform the same 
function (e.g., text generation or summarization) or that are within the same family (e.g., Falcon 40B versus Falcon 
180B), each model will perform differently across various responsible AI parameters. Even the same model fine-
tuned on two different datasets could perform differently, making it challenging to know which version works best. 
To start comparing models, organizations must first spend days identifying relevant benchmarks, setting up 
evaluation tools, and running assessments on each model. While customers have access to publicly available 
model benchmarks, they are often unable to evaluate the performance of models on prompts that are 
representative of their specific use cases. In addition, these benchmarks are often hard to decipher and are not 
useful for evaluating criteria like brand voice, relevance, and style. Then an organization has to go through the time-
consuming process of manually analyzing results, and repeating this process for every new use case or fine-tuned 
model.
SageMaker Clarify now helps customers evaluate, compare, and select the best models for their specific use case 
based on their chosen parameters to support an organization's responsible use of AI. With the new capability in 
SageMaker Clarify, customers can easily submit their own model for evaluation or select a model via SageMaker 
JumpStart. In SageMaker Studio, customers choose the models that they want to compare for a given task, such as 
question answering or content summarization. Customers then select evaluation parameters and upload their own 
prompt dataset or select from built-in, publicly available datasets. For sensitive criteria or nuanced content that 
AWS Announces Five New Amazon SageMaker Capabilities for Scaling with Models Amazon SageMaker 
HyperPod reduces time to train foundation models by up to 40% by p....
requires sophisticated human judgement, customers can choose to use their own workforce, or a managed 
workforce provided by SageMaker Ground Truth, to review the responses within minutes using feedback 
mechanisms. Once customers finish the setup process, SageMaker Clarify runs its evaluations and generates a 
report, so customers can quickly evaluate, compare, and select the best model based on performance criteria.
New Amazon SageMaker Canvas enhancements make it easier and faster for customers to integrate generative AI 
into their workflows
Amazon SageMaker Canvas helps customers build ML models and generate predictions without writing a single 
line of code. Today's announcement expands on SageMaker Canvas' existing, ready-to-use capabilities that help 
customers use models to power a range of use cases, in a no-code environment.
•
Prepare data using natural-language instructions: Today, the visual interface in SageMaker Canvas makes 
it easy for those without ML expertise to do their own data preparation, but some customers want a faster, 
more intuitive way to navigate their datasets. Customers can now get started quickly with sample queries 
and ask ad-hoc questions throughout the process to streamline data preparation. Customers can also do 
complex transformations, using natural-language instructions to fix common data problems like filling in 
missing values in a column. With this new no-code interface, customers can dramatically simplify how they 
work with data on SageMaker Canvas, reducing time spent preparing data from hours to minutes.
•
Leverage models for business analysis at scale: Customers use SageMaker Canvas to build ML models 
and generate predictions for a variety of tasks, including demand forecasting, customer churn prediction, 
and financial portfolio analysis. Earlier this year, SageMaker Canvas made it possible for customers to 
access multiple models on Amazon Bedrock, including models from AI21 Labs, Anthropic, and Amazon, 
along with models from MosaicML and TII and through SageMaker Jumpstart. With the same no-code 
interface they use today, customers can upload a dataset and select a model, and SageMaker Canvas 
automatically helps customers build custom models to generate predictions immediately. SageMaker 
Canvas also displays performance metrics, so customers can collaborate easily to generate predictions 
using models and understand how well the FM is performing on a given task.
Hugging Face is a leading machine learning company and open platform for AI builders, offering open foundation 
models, and the tools to create them. "Hugging Face has been using SageMaker HyperPod to create important 
new open foundation models like StarCoder, IDEFICS, and Zephyr, which have been downloaded millions of 
times," said Jeff Boudier, head of Product at Hugging Face. "SageMaker HyperPod's purpose-built resiliency and 
performance capabilities have enabled our open science team to focus on innovating and publishing important 
improvements to the ways foundation models are built, rather than managing infrastructure. We especially liked 
how SageMaker HyperPod is able to detect ML hardware failure and quickly replace the faulty hardware without 
disrupting ongoing model training. Because our teams need to innovate quickly, this automated job recovery feature 
helped us minimize disruption during the foundation model training process, helping us save hundreds of hours of 
training time in just a year."
Salesforce is a leading AI customer relationship management (CRM) platform, driving productivity and trusted 
customer experiences powered by data, AI, and CRM. "At Salesforce, we have an open ecosystem approach to 
foundation models, and Amazon SageMaker is a vital component, helping us scale our architecture and accelerate 
our go-to-market," said Bhavesh Doshi, vice president of Engineering at Salesforce. "Using the new SageMaker 
Inference capability, we were able to put all our models onto a single SageMaker endpoint that automatically 
handled all the resource allocation and sharing of the compute resources, accelerating performance and reducing 
deployment cost of foundation models."
Thomson Reuters is a leading source of information, including one of the world's most trusted news organizations. 
"One of the challenges that our engineers face is managing customer call resources during peak seasons to ensure 
the optimal number of customer service personnel are hired to handle the influx of inquiries," said Maria Apazoglou, 
vice president of Artificial Intelligence, Business Intelligence and Data Platforms at Thomson Reuters. "Historical 
analysis of call center data containing call volume, wait time, date, and other relevant metrics is time consuming. 
AWS Announces Five New Amazon SageMaker Capabilities for Scaling with Models Amazon SageMaker 
HyperPod reduces time to train foundation models by up to 40% by p....
Our teams are leveraging the new data preparation and customization capabilities in SageMaker Canvas to train 
models on company data to identify patterns and trends that impact call volume during peak hours. It was extremely 
easy for us to build ML models using our own data, and we look forward to increasing the use of foundational 
models-without writing any code-through Canvas."
Workday, Inc. is a cloud-based software vendor specializing in human capital management (HCM) and financial 
management applications. "More than 10,000 organizations around the world rely on Workday to manage their 
most valuable assets-their people and their money," said Shane Luke, vice president of AI and Machine Learning at 
Workday. "We provide responsible and transparent solutions to customers by selecting the best foundation model 
that reflects our company's policies around the responsible use of AI. For tasks such as creating job descriptions, 
which must be high quality and promote equal opportunity, we tested the new model evaluation capability in 
Amazon SageMaker and are excited about the ability to measure foundation models across metrics such as bias, 
quality, and performance. We look forward to using this service in the future to compare and select models that 
align with our stringent responsible AI criteria."
About Amazon Web Services
Since 2006, Amazon Web Services has been the world's most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud. AWS 
has been continually expanding its services to support virtually any workload, and it now has more than 240 fully 
featured services for compute, storage, databases, networking, analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence 
(AI), Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, security, hybrid, virtual and augmented reality (VR and AR), media, and 
application development, deployment, and management from 102 Availability Zones within 32 geographic regions, 
with announced plans for 15 more Availability Zones and five more AWS Regions in Canada, Germany, Malaysia, 
New Zealand, and Thailand. Millions of customers-including the fastest-growing startups, largest enterprises, and 
leading government agencies-trust AWS to power their infrastructure, become more agile, and lower costs. To learn 
more about AWS, visit aws.amazon.com.
About Amazon
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, 
commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Amazon strives to be Earth's Most Customer-Centric 
Company, Earth's Best Employer, and Earth's Safest Place to Work. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, 
personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Career 
Choice, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, Alexa, Just Walk Out technology, Amazon Studios, and The Climate 
Pledge are some of the things pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit amazon.com/about and follow 
@AmazonNews.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231129229217/en/
CONTACT: Amazon.com, Inc.
Media Hotline
Amazon-pr@amazon.com
www.amazon.com/pr
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 29, 2023
End of Document
Francisco Partners and TPG Complete Acquisition of New Relic
Francisco Partners and TPG Complete Acquisition of New Relic
Business Wire
November 8, 2023 Wednesday 1:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 623 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic , the all-in-one observability platform for every engineer, announced that Francisco Partners and TPG 
have completed their all-cash acquisition of New Relic for $87.00 per share, representing an equity valuation of 
approximately $6.5 billion.
The acquisition agreement was previously disclosed on July 31, 2023, and approved by New Relic stockholders at 
a special meeting held on November 1, 2023. The transaction establishes New Relic as a private company with 
enhanced flexibility and resources to continue investing in its leading observability platform and meeting the data 
and efficiency needs of its customers.
New Relic's common stock (NEWR) has ceased trading and is no longer listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Advisors
Qatalyst Partners served as financial advisor to New Relic, and Latham & Watkins LLP acted as legal counsel.
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC acted as lead financial advisor to Francisco Partners and TPG. Goldman Sachs & Co. 
LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and Moelis & Company also advised the firms. Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, Paul 
Hastings LLP, and Kirkland & Ellis LLP acted as legal counsel to Francisco Partners and TPG.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP acted as legal counsel to Lew Cirne, Founder and Chairman of the New 
Relic Board (non-executive).
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Francisco Partners and TPG Complete Acquisition of New Relic
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, Topgolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
About Francisco Partners
Francisco Partners is a leading global investment firm that specializes in partnering with technology and 
technology-enabled businesses. Since its launch over 20 years ago, Francisco Partners has invested in more than 
400 technology companies, making it one of the most active and longstanding investors in the technology industry. 
With approximately $45 billion in capital raised to date, the firm invests in opportunities where its deep sectoral 
knowledge and operational expertise can help companies realize their full potential. For more information on 
Francisco Partners, please visit www.franciscopartners.com .
About TPG
TPG is a leading global alternative asset management firm, founded in San Francisco in 1992, with $212 billion of 
assets under management and investment and operational teams around the world. TPG invests across a broadly 
diversified set of strategies, including private equity, impact, credit, real estate, and market solutions, and our 
unique strategy is driven by collaboration, innovation, and inclusion. Our teams combine deep product and sector 
experience with broad capabilities and expertise to develop differentiated insights and add value for our fund 
investors, portfolio companies, management teams, and communities. For more information, visit www.tpg.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231107859219/en/
CONTACT: New Relic
Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 8, 2023
End of Document
New Relic Stockholders Approve Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG
New Relic Stockholders Approve Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG
Business Wire
November 2, 2023 Thursday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1632 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic (NYSE: NEWR), the all-in-one observability platform for every engineer, announced that its stockholders 
have voted to approve the acquisition of New Relic by Francisco Partners and TPG in a special meeting held 
yesterday. As previously announced , under the terms of the merger agreement, New Relic stockholders will 
receive $87.00 per share in cash for each share of New Relic common stock that they own.
More than 99% of votes cast at the meeting were voted in favor of the transaction. New Relic will file the final vote 
results, as certified by the independent Inspector of Election, on a Form 8-K with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission.
The transaction is expected to close on or around November 8, 2023, subject to customary closing conditions. 
Upon completion of the transaction, New Relic common stock will no longer be listed on any public market.
Advisors
Qatalyst Partners is serving as financial advisor to New Relic, and Latham & Watkins LLP is acting as legal 
counsel.
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC is acting as lead financial advisor to Francisco Partners and TPG. Goldman Sachs & 
Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and Moelis & Company are also advising the firms. Davis Polk & Wardwell 
LLP, Paul Hastings LLP, and Kirkland & Ellis LLP are acting as legal counsel to Francisco Partners and TPG.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP is acting as legal counsel to Lew Cirne, Founder and Chairman of the New 
Relic Board (non-executive).
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
New Relic Stockholders Approve Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG
brands including adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, Topgolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
About Francisco Partners
Francisco Partners is a leading global investment firm that specializes in partnering with technology and 
technology-enabled businesses. Since its launch over 20 years ago, Francisco Partners has invested in more than 
400 technology companies, making it one of the most active and longstanding investors in the technology industry. 
With approximately $45 billion in capital raised to date, the firm invests in opportunities where its deep sectoral 
knowledge and operational expertise can help companies realize their full potential. For more information on 
Francisco Partners, please visit www.franciscopartners.com .
About TPG
TPG (NASDAQ: TPG) is a leading global alternative asset management firm, founded in San Francisco in 1992, 
with $139 billion of assets under management and investment and operational teams around the world. TPG 
invests across five multi-strategy platforms: Capital, Growth, Impact, Real Estate, and Market Solutions and our 
unique strategy is driven by collaboration, innovation, and inclusion. Our teams combine deep product and sector 
experience with broad capabilities and expertise to develop differentiated insights and add value for our fund 
investors, portfolio companies, management teams, and communities. For more information, visit www.tpg.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this communication contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities 
laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. 
These forward-looking statements are based on the Company's current expectations, estimates and projections 
about the expected date of closing of the proposed transaction and the potential benefits thereof, its business and 
industry, management's beliefs and certain assumptions made by the Company, FP and TPG, all of which are 
subject to change. Such statements generally include words such as "may," "will," "should," "would," "might," 
"expects," "plans," "anticipates," "could," "intends," "target," "projects," "contemplates," "believes," "estimates," 
"predicts," "potential," or "continue" or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that 
concern our expectations, estimates and projections. All forward-looking statements by their nature address matters 
that involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and are not guarantees of future results, 
such as statements about the consummation of the proposed transaction and the anticipated benefits thereof. 
These and other forward-looking statements, including the failure to consummate the Merger or to make or take any 
filing or other action required to consummate the Merger on a timely matter or at all, are not guarantees of future 
results and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Important risk factors that may cause such a difference 
include, but are not limited to: (i) the completion of the Merger on anticipated terms and timing, anticipated tax 
treatment, unforeseen liabilities, future capital expenditures, revenues, expenses, earnings, synergies, economic 
performance, indebtedness, financial condition, losses, future prospects, business and management strategies for 
the management, expansion and growth of the Company's business and other conditions to the completion of the 
Merger; (ii) conditions to the closing of the Merger may not be satisfied; (iii) the Merger may involve unexpected 
costs, liabilities or delays; (iv) the outcome of any legal proceedings related to the Merger; (v) the failure by Parent 
to obtain the necessary debt financing arrangements set forth in the commitment letters received in connection with 
the Merger; (vi) the Company's ability to implement its business strategy; (vii) significant transaction costs 
associated with the Merger; (viii) potential litigation relating to the Merger; (ix) the risk that disruptions from the 
Merger will harm the Company's business, including current plans and operations; (x) the ability of the Company to 
retain and hire key personnel; (xi) potential adverse reactions or changes to business relationships resulting from 
the announcement or completion of the Merger; (xii) legislative, regulatory and economic developments affecting 
the Company's business; (xiii) general economic and market developments and conditions; (xiv) the evolving legal, 
regulatory and tax regimes under which the Company operates; (xv) potential business uncertainty, including 
changes to existing business relationships, during the pendency of the Merger that could affect the Company's 
New Relic Stockholders Approve Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG
financial performance; (xvi) restrictions during the pendency of the Merger that may impact the Company's ability to 
pursue certain business opportunities or strategic transactions; (xvii) unpredictability and severity of catastrophic 
events, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or outbreak of war or hostilities, as well as the Company's 
response to any of the aforementioned factors; and (xviii) such other risks and uncertainties described more fully in 
documents filed with or furnished to the SEC by the Company, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K previously 
filed with the SEC on May 23, 2023 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q previously filed with the SEC on October 
27, 2023. While the list of factors presented here is considered representative, such list should not be considered to 
be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional 
obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as 
predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this communication 
primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our 
business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and 
rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to 
predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this 
communication. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking 
statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those 
described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this communication relate 
only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-
looking statements made in this communication to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this 
communication or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 
We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and 
you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231101891546/en/
CONTACT: New Relic
Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 2, 2023
End of Document
New Relic Announces Completion of "Go-Shop" Period Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period has expired 
Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG remains on track to cl....
New Relic Announces Completion of "Go-Shop" Period; Hart-Scott-Rodino 
waiting period has expired; Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG 
remains on track to close late 2023 or early 2024
Business Wire
September 14, 2023 Thursday 10:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1773 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic (NYSE: NEWR), the all-in-one observability platform for every engineer, announced the completion of 
the 45-day "go-shop" period pursuant to the terms of the previously announced definitive agreement to be acquired 
by Francisco Partners, a leading global investment firm that specializes in partnering with technology businesses, 
and TPG, a leading global alternative asset management firm, for $87.00 per share in cash, representing an equity 
valuation of approximately $6.5 billion ("the Transaction"). The "go-shop" period concluded at 11:59 p.m. Pacific 
time on September 13, 2023.
During the "go-shop" period, at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors, New Relic and representatives 
of Qatalyst Partners, financial advisor to the Company, actively solicited alternative acquisition proposals from 53 
potentially interested strategic and financial parties. None of the 53 parties contacted by New Relic submitted a 
competing acquisition proposal during the "go-shop" period.
The Transaction is expected to close in late 2023 or early 2024, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing 
conditions and certain regulatory items, including the approval of New Relic's shareholders and customary merger 
control clearances. The waiting period for the Transaction under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act 
of 1976 expired at 11:59 p.m. Eastern time on September 11, 2023. The Transaction is not subject to a financing 
condition. Upon completion of the Transaction, New Relic common stock will no longer be listed on any public 
market.
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
New Relic Announces Completion of "Go-Shop" Period Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period has expired 
Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG remains on track to cl....
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, TopGolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
About Francisco Partners
Francisco Partners is a leading global investment firm that specializes in partnering with technology and 
technology-enabled businesses. Since its launch over 20 years ago, Francisco Partners has invested in more than 
400 technology companies, making it one of the most active and longstanding investors in the technology industry. 
With approximately $45 billion in capital raised to date, the firm invests in opportunities where its deep sectoral 
knowledge and operational expertise can help companies realize their full potential. For more information on 
Francisco Partners, please visit www.franciscopartners.com .
About TPG
TPG (NASDAQ: TPG) is a leading global alternative asset management firm, founded in San Francisco in 1992, 
with $137 billion of assets under management and investment and operational teams around the world. TPG 
invests across five multi-strategy platforms: Capital, Growth, Impact, Real Estate, and Market Solutions and our 
unique strategy is driven by collaboration, innovation, and inclusion. Our teams combine deep product and sector 
experience with broad capabilities and expertise to develop differentiated insights and add value for our fund 
investors, portfolio companies, management teams, and communities.
Important Information and Where to Find It
This communication is being made in respect of the proposed transaction involving New Relic, Francisco Partners 
and TPG. A special stockholder meeting will be announced soon to obtain stockholder approval in connection with 
the proposed transaction. New Relic expects to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a 
proxy statement and other relevant documents in connection with the proposed merger. The definitive proxy 
statement and proxy card will be filed and will be sent or given to the stockholders of New Relic and will contain 
important information about the proposed transaction and related matters. INVESTORS OF NEW RELIC ARE 
URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS CAREFULLY 
AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT 
INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. Investors may obtain a 
free copy of these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed by the Company with the SEC at 
the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and at New Relic's website at ir.newrelic.com/financial-information .
Participants in the Solicitation
New Relic and certain of its directors, executive officers and other members of management and employees may 
be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its stockholders in connection with the proposed 
merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered to be participants in 
the solicitation of New Relic's stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in New Relic's 
definitive proxy statement for its special stockholder meeting. Additional information regarding these individuals and 
any direct or indirect interests they may have in the proposed merger will be set forth in the definitive proxy 
statement when and if it is filed with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger.
Forward Looking Statements
Statements in this communication contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities 
laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on New Relic's current expectations, 
estimates and projections about the expected date of closing of the proposed transaction and the potential benefits 
thereof, its business and industry, management's beliefs and certain assumptions made by New Relic, Francisco 
Partners and TPG, all of which are subject to change. Such statements generally include words such as "may," 
"will," "should," "would," "might," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "could," "intends," "target," "projects," 
New Relic Announces Completion of "Go-Shop" Period Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period has expired 
Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG remains on track to cl....
"contemplates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue" or the negative of these words or other 
similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, estimates and projections. The forward-looking 
statements in this communication include statements regarding the transaction and the ability to consummate the 
transaction. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and New Relic undertakes no 
obligation to update any of them publicly in light of new information or future events. Actual results could differ 
materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement as a result of various factors, including, without 
limitation: (i) the completion of the proposed transaction on anticipated terms and timing, including obtaining 
stockholder and regulatory approvals, anticipated tax treatment, unforeseen liabilities, future capital expenditures, 
revenues, expenses, earnings, synergies, economic performance, indebtedness, financial condition, losses, future 
prospects, business and management strategies for the management, expansion and growth of New Relic's 
business and other conditions to the completion of the transaction; (ii) conditions to the closing of the transaction 
may not be satisfied; (iii) the transaction may involve unexpected costs, liabilities or delays; (iv) the outcome of any 
legal proceedings related to the transaction; (v) the failure by Francisco Partners and TPG to obtain the necessary 
debt financing arrangements set forth in the commitment letters received in connection with the transaction; (vi) 
New Relic's ability to implement its business strategy; (vii) significant transaction costs associated with the 
proposed transaction; (viii) potential litigation relating to the proposed transaction; (ix) the risk that disruptions from 
the proposed transaction will harm New Relic's business, including current plans and operations; (x) the ability of 
New Relic to retain and hire key personnel; (xi) potential adverse reactions or changes to business relationships 
resulting from the announcement or completion of the proposed transaction; (xii) legislative, regulatory and 
economic developments affecting New Relic's business; (xiii) general economic and market developments and 
conditions; (xiv) the evolving legal, regulatory and tax regimes under which New Relic operates; (xv) potential 
business uncertainty, including changes to existing business relationships, during the pendency of the merger that 
could affect New Relic's financial performance; (xvi) restrictions during the pendency of the proposed transaction 
that may impact New Relic's ability to pursue certain business opportunities or strategic transactions; and (xvii) 
unpredictability and severity of catastrophic events, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or outbreak of war 
or hostilities, as well as New Relic's response to any of the aforementioned factors. While the list of factors 
presented here is considered representative, such list should not be considered to be a complete statement of all 
potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of 
forward-looking statements. Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in 
the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, 
financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on 
New Relic's financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. New Relic does not assume any obligation to 
publicly provide revisions or updates to any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, 
future developments or otherwise, should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and 
other applicable laws.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230913565208/en/
CONTACT: New Relic
Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 14, 2023
New Relic Announces Completion of "Go-Shop" Period Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period has expired 
Acquisition by Francisco Partners and TPG remains on track to cl....
End of Document
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Announces Proposed Settlement in the Ryanair Securities Litigation
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Announces Proposed Settlement in the 
Ryanair Securities Litigation
Business Wire
July 26, 2023 Wednesday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 810 words
Dateline: SAN DIEGO 
Body
The following statement is being issued by Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP regarding the Ryanair Securities 
Litigation:
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
TO: ALL PERSONS AND ENTITIES WHO PURCHASED OR ACQUIRED AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES OF 
RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC ("RYANAIR" OR THE "COMPANY") DURING THE PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 2017 TO 
SEPTEMBER 28, 2018, INCLUSIVE
x
CITY OF BIRMINGHAM FIREMEN'S AND
Civil Action No. 1:18-cv-10330-JPO
POLICEMEN'S SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION
SYSTEM, Individually and on Behalf of All
CLASS ACTION
Others Similarly Situated,
SUMMARY NOTICE
Plaintiff,
vs.
RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC and MICHAEL O'LEARY,
Defendants.
x
YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED, pursuant to an Order of the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York, that a hearing will be held on October 20, 2023, at 12:30 p.m. EDT, before the Honorable J. Paul 
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Announces Proposed Settlement in the Ryanair Securities Litigation
Oetken, United States District Judge, at the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, 
Thurgood Marshall United States Courthouse, 40 Foley Square, New York, NY 10007, Courtroom 706, for the 
purpose of determining: (1) whether the proposed Settlement of the above-captioned Action, as set forth in the 
settlement agreement reached between the parties, consisting of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000.00) in cash, 
should be approved as fair, reasonable, and adequate to the Members of the Class; (2) whether the release by 
Class Members of claims as set forth in the settlement agreement should be authorized; (3) whether the proposed 
plan to distribute the Settlement proceeds (the "Plan of Allocation") is fair, reasonable, and adequate; (4) whether 
the application by Plaintiff's counsel for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses and any awards to Plaintiff 
pursuant to 15 U.S.C. §78u-4(a)(4) should be approved; and (5) whether the Judgment, in the form attached to the 
settlement agreement, should be entered.
Please note that the date, time and location of the Settlement Hearing are subject to change without further notice. 
If you plan to attend the hearing, you should check the docket or contact Lead Counsel (identified below) to be sure 
that no change to the date, time or location of the hearing has been made.
IF YOU PURCHASED OR ACQUIRED ANY OF THE AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES OF RYANAIR DURING 
THE PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 2017 TO SEPTEMBER 28, 2018, INCLUSIVE, YOUR RIGHTS WILL BE 
AFFECTED BY THE SETTLEMENT OF THIS LITIGATION.
If you have not received a detailed Notice of Pendency and Proposed Settlement of Class Action ("Notice") and a 
copy of the Proof of Claim and Release form ("Proof of Claim"), you may obtain copies by writing to Ryanair 
Securities Settlement, Claims Administrator, c/o Gilardi & Co. LLC, P.O. Box 301133, Los Angeles, CA 90030-
1133, or on the internet at www.RyanairSecuritiesSettlement.com .
If you are a Class Member, in order to share in the distribution of the Net Settlement Fund, you must submit a Proof 
of Claim by mail (postmarked no later than October 17, 2023) or submitted electronically (received no later than 
October 17, 2023), establishing that you are entitled to recovery. Unless the deadline is extended, your failure to 
submit your Proof of Claim by the above deadline will preclude you from receiving any payment from the 
Settlement.
If you are a Class Member and you desire to be excluded from the Class, you must submit a request for exclusion 
such that it is postmarked no later than September 29, 2023, in the manner and form explained in the detailed 
Notice, referred to above. All Members of the Class who do not timely and validly request exclusion from the Class 
will be bound by any judgment entered in the Action pursuant to the Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement.
Any objection to the Settlement, the Plan of Allocation, or the fee and expense application must be mailed to each 
of the following recipients, such that it is received no later than September 29, 2023:
Clerk of the Court:
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
THURGOOD MARSHALL
UNITED STATES COURTHOUSE
40 Foley Square
New York, NY 10007
Lead Counsel:
ROBBINS GELLER RUDMAN
& DOWD LLP
ROBERT R. HENSSLER
655 West Broadway, Suite 1900
San Diego, CA 92101
Defendants' Counsel:
CLEARY GOTTLIEB STEEN & HAMILTON LLP
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Announces Proposed Settlement in the Ryanair Securities Litigation
JARED GERBER
One Liberty Plaza
New York, NY 10006
PLEASE DO NOT CONTACT THE COURT, THE CLERK'S OFFICE OR DEFENDANTS REGARDING THIS 
NOTICE. If you have any questions about the Settlement, you may contact Lead Counsel at the address listed 
above or by an email to Lead Counsel at settlementinfo@rgrdlaw.com . Copies of certain pleadings and other 
documents filed in the Action can also be found at www.RyanairSecuritiesSettlement.com .
DATED
: July 5, 
2023
BY ORDER OF THE COURT  UNITED 
STATES DISTRICT COURT  SOUTHERN 
DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230726826256/en/
CONTACT: Media:
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP
Shareholder Relations Department
Greg Wood
(619) 231-1058
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 26, 2023
End of Document
AWS Expands Amazon Bedrock With Additional Foundation Models, New Model Provider, and Advanced 
Capability to Help Customers Build Generative AI Applications Cus....
AWS Expands Amazon Bedrock With Additional Foundation Models, New 
Model Provider, and Advanced Capability to Help Customers Build 
Generative AI Applications; Customers, including Bridgewater Associates, 
Coda, Lonely Planet, Ryanair, Showpad, and Travelers, are using Amazon 
Bedrock to create generative AI applications; Amazon Bedrock adds access 
to Cohere's foundation models, as well as Anthropic's Claude 2 and Stability 
AI's Stable Diffusion XL 1.0, to give customers greater flexibility to 
experiment and innovate; New capability allows customers to enable 
automation of complex tasks and to deliver customized, up-to-date answers 
for their applications based on their proprietary data
Business Wire
July 26, 2023 Wednesday 3:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 2160 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS), an Amazon.com, Inc. company (NASDAQ: AMZN), today at AWS Summit New 
York announced the expansion of its fully managed foundation model (FM) service Amazon Bedrock to include the 
addition of Cohere as an FM provider and the latest FMs from Anthropic and Stability AI, as well as a new capability 
for creating fully managed agents in just a few clicks-a game-changing feature for builders, with no expertise 
required. Customers can use Amazon Bedrock to build and scale generative AI applications with a selection of 
industry-leading FMs by accessing a simple application programming interface (API), all in a secure environment 
and without managing any infrastructure. The expansion of Amazon Bedrock to include a new model provider, 
leading FMs, and the ability to easily create managed agents offers customers the broadest and most 
comprehensive toolset to leverage generative AI for any use case. To learn more about Amazon Bedrock, visit 
aws.amazon.com/bedrock .
Customers are already using Amazon Bedrock to transform their businesses with generative AI, including Coda, 
Lonely Planet, Ryanair, Showpad, and Travelers. Today's announcement reinforces how Amazon Bedrock gives 
customers greater choice and flexibility to find the right FM for the job, while also providing a new capability that 
helps customers build generative AI applications that can take actions in the real world and deliver personalized 
answers to users based on their company's data.
"Generative AI has the potential to transform every application, business, and industry. Advancements across data 
processing, compute, and machine learning are expediting the shift from experimentation to deployment for AWS 
customers of all sizes," said Swami Sivasubramanian, vice president of Database, Analytics, and Machine Learning 
AWS Expands Amazon Bedrock With Additional Foundation Models, New Model Provider, and Advanced 
Capability to Help Customers Build Generative AI Applications Cus....
at AWS. "Through services like Amazon Bedrock and collaborations with industry leaders, we are democratizing 
access to generative AI, so wherever customers are on their machine learning journey, they can use AWS to 
reimagine experiences and bring new products to life."
With the massive proliferation of data, the availability of highly scalable compute capacity, and the advancement of 
machine learning (ML) technologies, generative AI is now capable of transforming every industry, and customers 
want to understand how they can quickly take advantage of this new technology. However, selecting the right 
model, securely customizing it using sensitive intellectual property or company data, and integrating it into an 
application is a complex process requiring significant time and highly specialized expertise. Amazon Bedrock is 
already simplifying this for customers, making it easier to build and scale generative AI-based applications, with 
access to a broad selection of best-in-class FMs from companies including AI21 Labs, Anthropic, Cohere, Stability 
AI, and Amazon, via a simple API. As a fully managed service, Amazon Bedrock allows customers to find and test 
different models, get started quickly, securely customize a model to fit their needs, and then integrate and deploy it 
to production.
New model provider Cohere offers even more FM selection for customers
AWS offers the broadest and deepest set of ML services and supporting cloud infrastructure to put ML and AI 
capabilities in the hands of builders of all levels of experience. Amazon Bedrock will add Cohere as the newest FM 
provider to give customers an even greater choice of best-in-class FMs to build their generative AI applications. 
Cohere is a leading developer of enterprise AI platforms and state-of-the-art FMs, and its FMs help to unlock more 
intuitive ways to generate, search, and summarize information. Command, Cohere's flagship text generation model, 
is trained to follow user commands and be useful instantly in practical business applications such as 
summarization, copywriting, dialogue, extraction, and question answering. Cohere's text understanding model, 
Embed, can be used for search, clustering, or classification tasks across 100+ languages, allowing organizations to 
easily search by meaning or categorize text.
Saurabh Baji, senior vice president of engineering at Cohere, said of the launch on Amazon Bedrock, "We are 
excited to expand our collaboration with AWS and offer our FMs on Amazon Bedrock. Our top-performing models 
are trained for business applications such as summarization, copywriting, dialog, extraction, and question 
answering. This collaboration will provide our joint customers with the greatest possible flexibility in ways to access 
our cutting-edge technology. Bringing Amazon Bedrock and Cohere together offers customers intelligent systems 
so that developers and enterprises alike can innovate faster and more easily with AI."
Claude 2 from Anthropic and Stable Diffusion XL 1.0 from Stability AI become available on Amazon Bedrock
With Amazon Bedrock, customers can drive rapid innovation as new versions of FMs become available. Amazon 
Bedrock offers a range of text and image FMs from leading providers that span applications such as analyzing text 
for sentiment, classifying images, and forecasting trends.
•
Anthropic Claude 2 on Amazon Bedrock: Anthropic, an AI safety and research company that builds 
reliable, interpretable, and steerable AI systems, has brought Claude 2, the latest version of their language 
model, to Amazon Bedrock. Claude 2 can take up to 100,000 tokens in each conversational task prompt, 
meaning it can work over hundreds of pages of text, or even an entire book. Claude 2 can also write longer 
documents-like memos and stories on the order of a few thousand tokens-compared to its prior version, 
giving Amazon Bedrock customers even greater ways to develop generative AI applications.
•
Stability AI Stable Diffusion XL 1.0 on Amazon Bedrock: Stability AI is a community-driven, open AI 
company, offering FMs that create text, images, audio, video, code, and more from simple text instructions 
and will release the latest iteration of its text-to-image suite of models, Stable Diffusion XL 1.0 (SDXL 1.0), 
on Amazon Bedrock. SDXL 1.0 produces improved image and composition detail over its predecessor with 
its ability to generate more realistic creations for films, television, music, and instructional videos. SDXL 1.0 
is also being released on Amazon SageMaker JumpStart, an ML hub that provides access to algorithms, 
models, and solutions.
AWS Expands Amazon Bedrock With Additional Foundation Models, New Model Provider, and Advanced 
Capability to Help Customers Build Generative AI Applications Cus....
Daniela Amodei, president and co-founder of Anthropic, said of today's launch, "We're excited that our latest model 
Claude 2, which has made significant gains in performance and safety, is now accessible on Amazon Bedrock. This 
collaboration opens up new opportunities to deploy Claude to more enterprises using Amazon Bedrock's secure 
infrastructure and familiar AWS tooling. We are happy to work with AWS because they share our commitment to 
creating safer, more reliable AI. Together, we can help our customers unlock the power of generative AI and 
accomplish their goals."
Emad Mostaque, founder and CEO of Stability AI, said of their news, "Stability AI thrives on innovation, and our 
foundation model Stable Diffusion on Amazon Bedrock reflects the most pioneering developments across 
generative AI. Offering the latest release of our foundation model SDXL 1.0, with improved image and composition 
detail over its predecessor, gives Amazon Bedrock customers access to cutting-edge resources and advances our 
goal to activate humanity's potential with AI."
Customers can create agents for Amazon Bedrock to complete complex tasks and to deliver customized, up-to-date 
answers for their applications, based on their proprietary data
With a robust understanding of natural language and the ability to be further customized to domain-specific tasks, 
FMs are incredibly powerful for a wide range of use cases, such as summarization and question answering. 
However, FMs on their own are limited because they cannot complete complex tasks that require them to interact 
with external systems and don't have up-to-date knowledge sources, like inventory data for an ecommerce 
company. To make these kinds of capabilities possible, developers must go through a multistep process to 
accomplish even simple tasks, like booking a flight or returning a purchased item. This process includes breaking 
the task into multiple steps, by providing specific definitions and instructions, configuring access to current and 
relevant knowledge sources, and writing code so the generative AI application can take action according to the plan 
through a series of API calls. Developers must then provision and manage the requisite infrastructure, along with 
setting up policies for data security and privacy, which is tedious and time consuming. The complexity of this 
process for a single task means many companies are not able to unlock the full potential of generative AI.
Agents for Amazon Bedrock is a new, fully managed capability that makes it easier for developers to create 
generative-AI based applications that can complete complex tasks for a wide range of use cases and deliver up-to-
date answers based on proprietary knowledge sources. With just a few clicks, agents for Amazon Bedrock 
automatically break down tasks and create an orchestration plan-without any manual coding. The agent securely 
connects to company data through a simple API, automatically converting data into a machine-readable format, and 
augmenting the request with relevant information to generate the most accurate response. Agents can then 
automatically call APIs to fulfill a user's request. For example, an insurance agency might want to develop a 
generative AI application to help employees automate tasks like processing insurance claims or managing pending 
paperwork. As a fully managed capability, agents for Amazon Bedrock remove the undifferentiated lifting of 
managing system integration and infrastructure provisioning, allowing developers to leverage generative AI to its full 
extent throughout their organization.
Showpad is a leading sales-enablement platform using AI to empower organizations to increase sales productivity 
and drive better business outcomes. "We improve how sales and marketing teams partner in pursuit of a shared 
goal: bringing meaningful value to each buyer interaction. This requires tailoring information and improving how 
sellers engage with buyers, based on their unique needs," said Tony Grout, chief product officer at Showpad. 
"That's why we rely on Amazon Bedrock to rapidly experiment and subsequently push new models to production, 
so we can ensure that every conversation is empathetic, authentic, and builds trust with buyers."
In existence for more than 165 years, Travelers is an experienced and innovative insurance company that spans 
personal, business, and specialty insurance, and is the only property casualty company in the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average. "The potential that generative AI brings is huge, and Travelers is excited to leverage access to FMs 
through Amazon Bedrock," said Mano Mannoochahr, chief data & analytics officer at Travelers. "With direct access 
to FMs from AWS and third parties, Amazon Bedrock provides the potential for quick and easy experimentation, 
development, and deployment."
AWS Expands Amazon Bedrock With Additional Foundation Models, New Model Provider, and Advanced 
Capability to Help Customers Build Generative AI Applications Cus....
About Amazon Web Services
Since 2006, Amazon Web Services has been the world's most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud. AWS 
has been continually expanding its services to support virtually any workload, and it now has more than 240 fully 
featured services for compute, storage, databases, networking, analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence 
(AI), Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, security, hybrid, virtual and augmented reality (VR and AR), media, and 
application development, deployment, and management from 99 Availability Zones within 31 geographic regions, 
with announced plans for 15 more Availability Zones and five more AWS Regions in Canada, Israel, Malaysia, New 
Zealand, and Thailand. Millions of customers-including the fastest-growing startups, largest enterprises, and leading 
government agencies-trust AWS to power their infrastructure, become more agile, and lower costs. To learn more 
about AWS, visit aws.amazon.com.
About Amazon
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, 
commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Amazon strives to be Earth's Most Customer-Centric 
Company, Earth's Best Employer, and Earth's Safest Place to Work. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, 
personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Career 
Choice, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, Alexa, Just Walk Out technology, Amazon Studios, and The Climate 
Pledge are some of the things pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit amazon.com/about and follow 
@AmazonNews.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230726332037/en/
CONTACT: Amazon.com, Inc.
Media Hotline
Amazon-pr@amazon.com
www.amazon.com/pr
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 26, 2023
End of Document
New Relic Announces Date of First Quarter Fiscal Year 2024 Financial Results Conference Call and 
Participation in an Upcoming Investor Conference
New Relic Announces Date of First Quarter Fiscal Year 2024 Financial 
Results Conference Call and Participation in an Upcoming Investor 
Conference
Business Wire
July 18, 2023 Tuesday 8:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 370 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic (NYSE: NEWR), the all-in-one observability platform for every engineer, announced it will report its 
financial results for fiscal year 2024 first quarter, which ended June 30, 2023, after market close on Tuesday, 
August 8, 2023. The company will host a conference call at 2:00 p.m. PT / 5:00 p.m. ET to review the financial 
results and business outlook with the investment community. A live webcast and replay of the event will be 
available on the New Relic investor relations website at http://ir.newrelic.com .
New Relic also announced that it will participate in the following investor conference:
Event: Canaccord Genuity 43rd Annual Growth Conference
Date: Thursday, August 10, 2023, at 6:00 a.m. PT / 9:00 a.m. ET
Details: Fireside chat and one-on-one meetings (Ingo Friedrichowitz, SVP, Investor Relations & Corporate Finance)
A live webcast of the fireside chat presentation will be accessible under the "Events & Presentations" section of the 
New Relic investor relations website at http://ir.newrelic.com . Following the event, a replay will be made available 
at the same location.
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, TopGolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
New Relic Announces Date of First Quarter Fiscal Year 2024 Financial Results Conference Call and 
Participation in an Upcoming Investor Conference
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230718908537/en/
CONTACT: Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 18, 2023
End of Document
AWS Announces Generative AI Innovation Center; AWS invests $100 million in a new program that connects 
AWS machine learning and artificial intelligence experts ....
AWS Announces Generative AI Innovation Center; AWS invests $100 million 
in a new program that connects AWS machine learning and artificial 
intelligence experts with customers and partners worldwide to accelerate 
enterprise innovation and success with generative AI; Highspot, Lonely 
Planet, Ryanair, and Twilio are engaging with the Innovation Center to 
explore developing generative AI solutions
Business Wire
June 22, 2023 Thursday 4:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1314 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS), an Amazon.com, Inc. company (NASDAQ: AMZN), today announced the AWS 
Generative AI Innovation Center, a new program to help customers successfully build and deploy generative 
artificial intelligence (AI) solutions. AWS is investing $100 million in the program, which will connect AWS AI and 
machine learning (ML) experts with customers around the globe to help them envision, design, and launch new 
generative AI products, services, and processes. This builds on more than 25 years of deep investment in 
developing AI technologies for customers and is just one part of AWS's overall generative AI strategy to bring this 
technology to customers and partners around the world. Companies of all kinds are excited about the potential of 
generative AI to transform their offerings and operations. The AWS Generative AI Innovation Center can help them 
make their ideas a reality faster and more effectively. To get started with the Generative AI Innovation Center, visit 
https://aws.amazon.com/generative-ai/ .
"Amazon has more than 25 years of AI experience, and more than 100,000 customers have used AWS AI and ML 
services to address some of their biggest opportunities and challenges. Now, customers around the globe are 
hungry for guidance about how to get started quickly and securely with generative AI," said Matt Garman, senior 
vice president of Sales, Marketing, and Global Services at AWS. "The Generative AI Innovation Center is part of 
our goal to help every organization leverage AI by providing flexible and cost-effective generative AI services for the 
enterprise, alongside our team of generative AI experts to take advantage of all this new technology has to offer. 
Together with our global community of partners, we're working with business leaders across every industry to help 
them maximize the impact of generative AI in their organizations, creating value for their customers, employees, 
and bottom line."
The AWS Generative AI Innovation Center team of strategists, data scientists, engineers, and solutions architects 
will work step-by-step with customers to build bespoke solutions that harness the power of generative AI. For 
example, healthcare and life sciences companies can pursue ways to accelerate drug research and discovery. 
AWS Announces Generative AI Innovation Center; AWS invests $100 million in a new program that connects 
AWS machine learning and artificial intelligence experts ....
Manufacturers can build solutions to reinvent industrial design and processes. And financial services companies 
can develop ways to provide customers with more personalized information and advice.
Through no cost workshops, engagements, and training, AWS will help customers imagine and scope the use 
cases that will create the greatest value for their businesses, based on best practices and industry expertise. 
Customers will work closely with generative AI experts from AWS and the AWS Partner Network to select the right 
models, define paths to navigate technical or business challenges, develop proofs of concepts, and make plans for 
launching solutions at scale. The Generative AI Innovation Center team will provide guidance on best practices for 
applying generative AI responsibly and optimizing machine learning operations to reduce costs. Engagements will 
deliver strategy, tools, and assistance that will help customers use AWS generative AI services, including Amazon 
CodeWhisperer , an AI-powered coding companion, and Amazon Bedrock , a fully managed service that makes 
foundational models (FMs) from AI21 Labs, Anthropic, and Stability AI, along with Amazon's own family of FMs, 
Amazon Titan , accessible via an API. They can also train and run their models using high-performance 
infrastructure, including AWS Inferentia -powered Amazon EC2 Inf1 Instances , AWS Trainium -powered Amazon 
EC2 Trn1 Instances , and Amazon EC2 P5 instances powered by NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPUs . Additionally, 
customers can build, train, and deploy their own models with Amazon SageMaker or use Amazon SageMaker 
Jumpstart to deploy some of today's most popular FMs, including Cohere's large language models , Technology 
Innovation Institute's Falcon 40B , and Hugging Face's BLOOM .
Highspot is a sales-enablement platform that increases the productivity of sales teams. "Highspot is obsessive 
about helping our customers drive efficient growth by delivering capabilities that unlock new levels of sales 
productivity," said Kurt Berglund, vice president of Science at Highspot. "The potential generative AI brings is huge 
and at Highspot we're leveraging it to transform sales enablement and continue leveling up the value we give our 
customers. The AWS Generative AI Innovation Center is providing us with novel solutions and creative guidance for 
some of the most complex challenges and opportunities involved in bringing generative AI workloads to life at 
scale."
For nearly 50 years, Lonely Planet has been committed to helping people experience the joy of travel. "We are 
always looking for ways to tap into new technology and meet the demands of today's travelers," said Chris Whyde, 
senior vice president of Engineering & Data Science at Lonely Planet. "The AWS Generative AI Innovation Center, 
paired with expert-driven advice and Lonely Planet's award-winning content, will enable us to provide more 
personalized travel recommendations, making travel more accessible for those around the world."
Twilio is a customer engagement platform that combines an extensive suite of digital communication channels with 
the best in first-party customer data, enabling businesses to deliver personalized engagement to customers on a 
global scale, when and how they prefer. "Our goal with Twilio CustomerAI is to empower businesses to leverage 
both generative and predictive intelligence capabilities that help them better understand and provide deeper value 
to their customers," said Kathryn Murphy, senior vice president of Product Management at Twilio. "AWS and Twilio 
are longtime technology partners, and we're proud to be jointly innovating on predictive AI, using Amazon 
SageMaker, and welcome future collaboration around generative AI. We look forward to seeing the impact of the 
Generative AI Innovation Center and its mission to nurture new ideas and capabilities in the AI space."
About Amazon Web Services
Since 2006, Amazon Web Services has been the world's most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud. AWS 
has been continually expanding its services to support virtually any workload, and it now has more than 200 fully 
featured services for compute, storage, databases, networking, analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence 
(AI), Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, security, hybrid, virtual and augmented reality (VR and AR), media, and 
application development, deployment, and management from 99 Availability Zones within 31 geographic regions, 
with announced plans for 15 more Availability Zones and five more AWS Regions in Canada, Israel, Malaysia, New 
Zealand, and Thailand. Millions of customers-including the fastest-growing startups, largest enterprises, and leading 
government agencies-trust AWS to power their infrastructure, become more agile, and lower costs. To learn more 
about AWS, visit aws.amazon.com .
AWS Announces Generative AI Innovation Center; AWS invests $100 million in a new program that connects 
AWS machine learning and artificial intelligence experts ....
About Amazon
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, 
commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Amazon strives to be Earth's Most Customer-Centric 
Company, Earth's Best Employer, and Earth's Safest Place to Work. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, 
personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Career 
Choice, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, Alexa, Just Walk Out technology, Amazon Studios, and The Climate 
Pledge are some of the things pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit amazon.com/about and follow 
@AmazonNews .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230622131589/en/
CONTACT: Amazon.com, Inc.
Media Hotline
Amazon-pr@amazon.com
www.amazon.com/pr
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 22, 2023
End of Document
New Relic Announces Date of Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2023 Financial Results Conference Call and 
Analyst Day
New Relic Announces Date of Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2023 Financial 
Results Conference Call and Analyst Day
Business Wire
April 24, 2023 Monday 8:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 381 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic. (NYSE: NEWR), the all-in-one observability platform for every engineer, announced it will report its 
financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2023, which ended March 31, 2023, after market close on 
Tuesday, May 23, 2023. The company will host a conference call at 2:00 p.m. PT / 5:00 p.m. ET to review the 
financial results and business outlook with the investment community. A live webcast and replay of the event will be 
available on the New Relic Investor Relations website at http://ir.newrelic.com .
Building upon the announcement of financial results for the fiscal year 2023, New Relic will be holding an analyst 
day to provide a multi-year financial outlook, as well as to cover New Relic's growth strategy, refreshed product 
roadmap, and go-to-market priorities.
Analyst day will be at the NYSE in New York City on Thursday, May 25, 2023 beginning at 1:00 p.m. ET and 
concluding at 5:00 p.m. ET. Given that room capacity is limited at 100 people, in-person attendance is by invitation 
only. The event will be livestreamed and all interested parties are invited to access the webcast on the company's 
Investor Relations website.
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, TopGolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230424005917/en/
New Relic Announces Date of Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2023 Financial Results Conference Call and 
Analyst Day
CONTACT: Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 24, 2023
End of Document
New Relic to Participate in Upcoming Investor Conferences
New Relic to Participate in Upcoming Investor Conferences
Business Wire
February 22, 2023 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 364 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic, Inc. (NYSE: NEWR), the all-in-one observability platform for every engineer, today announced that 
members of its management team will participate in the following investor conferences:
Event: Wolfe Research Software Conference
Date: Tuesday, February 28, 2023
Details: One-on-one meetings only (David Barter, CFO)
Event: Bernstein TMT & Consumer 1:1 Forum
Date: Wednesday, March 1, 2023
Details: One-on-one meetings only (David Barter, CFO)
Event: JMP Securities Technology Conference
Date: Monday, March 6, 2023, at 10:00 a.m. PT / 1:00 p.m. ET
Details: Fireside chat and one-on-one meetings (Bill Staples, CEO)
Event: Morgan Stanley Technology, Media & Telecom Conference
Date: Tuesday, March 7, 2023, at 8:00 a.m. PT / 11:00 a.m. ET
Details: Fireside chat and one-on-one meetings (Bill Staples, CEO)
The live webcasts of the fireside chat presentations will be accessible under the "Events & Presentations" section of 
the New Relic investor relations page at http://ir.newrelic.com . Following the events, replays will be made available 
at the same location.
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
New Relic to Participate in Upcoming Investor Conferences
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, TopGolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230222005318/en/
CONTACT: Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 22, 2023
End of Document
Zeus Commences 2023 Acquisition Strategy With Polpack Acquisition
Zeus Commences 2023 Acquisition Strategy With Polpack Acquisition
Business Wire
February 2, 2023 Thursday 11:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 465 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Zeus, the Irish-owned global packaging supply chain solutions company, has today announced the acquisition of 
Polpack, a leader in packaging materials distribution and packaging machinery solutions in Poland. This is the first 
step in Zeus' 2023 acquisition strategy, further consolidating its operations across Europe.
Established in January 1993, privately-owned Polpack has grown revenues to more than (EURO)8.5m per annum. 
Headquartered in Warsaw, Polpack has 7 sales offices throughout Poland supported by warehousing, logistics and 
manufacturing facilities. With over 40 staff, the business offers bespoke solutions to a diverse customer base. 
During the past 12 months Zeus has added a further (EURO)75m of revenue through acquisition. This latest 
purchase represents the start of a program of further growth plans in 2023 aimed to navigate business to revenues 
of more than (EURO)500m.
Zeus CEO Keith Ockenden said: "We set up Zeus Poland in 2010 with revenues now exceeding (EURO)5m and a 
full range of packaging solutions for food production, retail, manufacturing, e-commerce and 3PL organisations. The 
acquisition of Polpack is a natural fit for our Poland operation, offering synergies to combine scale, leverage 
operational efficiencies and expand our product and service offering to our collective client base."
"Our European reach has strategically expanded during the past two years with Zeus now operating across 16 
countries. Polpack's capabilities in the provision of packaging and machinery solutions compliments our strategy to 
diversify our offering across Europe within the industrial and transit packaging sector enabling us to offer clients 
options to consolidate supply chains and leverage greater value."
Polpack owner Wojciech Zdzieborski said: "Today is a new step in the Polpack journey. We are excited to work with 
Zeus, combining their global reach and infrastructure with our experience, technical skills, knowledge and 
understanding of customer needs in packaging machinery, developing and manufacturing. This partnership will 
improve productivity, enhance efficiencies and deliver greater value to our customers."
Zeus founder Brian O'Sullivan added: "Our journey over the years has provided opportunities to strengthen our 
capability, widen our offering and learn new disciplines. The addition of the Polpack businesses into our family will 
complement the range of solutions we provide our customers, enhance our technical capability within Poland and 
strengthen resources throughout Europe."
Zeus Commences 2023 Acquisition Strategy With Polpack Acquisition
Customers of Zeus range include Kaufland, Lidl, Aldi, ABP, Harrods, Ryanair and McDonalds. Established by Brian 
O'Sullivan in 1998, Zeus employs over 900 people worldwide.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230202005108/en/
CONTACT: ciara@springboardcommunications.ie
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 2, 2023
End of Document
New Relic Announces Date of Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2023 Financial Results Conference Call
New Relic Announces Date of Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2023 Financial 
Results Conference Call
Business Wire
January 17, 2023 Tuesday 2:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 276 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic (NYSE: NEWR), the all-in-one observability platform for every engineer, announced it will report its 
financial results for fiscal year 2023 third quarter, which ended December 31, 2022, after market close on Tuesday, 
February 7, 2023. The company will host a conference call at 2:00 p.m. PT / 5:00 p.m. ET to review the financial 
results and business outlook with the investment community. A live webcast and replay of the event will be 
available on the New Relic Investor Relations website at http://ir.newrelic.com .
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including Adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, TopGolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230117005333/en/
CONTACT: Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
New Relic Announces Date of Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2023 Financial Results Conference Call
Load-Date: January 17, 2023
End of Document
New Relic to Present at Upcoming Investor Conferences
New Relic to Present at Upcoming Investor Conferences
Business Wire
November 21, 2022 Monday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 324 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic, Inc. (NYSE: NEWR), the all-in-one observability platform for every engineer, today announced that 
members of its management team will present at the following investor conferences:
•
Credit Suisse 26th Annual Technology Conference on Tuesday, November 29, 2022, at 1:20 p.m. PT / 
4:20 p.m. ET (David Barter, CFO).
•
Raymond James Technology Investors Conference on Monday, December 5, 2022, at 6:45 a.m. PT / 9:45 
a.m. ET (Bill Staples, CEO).
•
Barclays Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications Conference on Wednesday, December 7, 
2022, at 4:15 p.m. PT / 7:15 p.m. ET (David Barter, CFO).
The live webcasts of the presentations will be accessible from the investor relations page of the New Relic website 
at http://ir.newrelic.com . Following the events, replays will be made available at the same location.
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, TopGolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221121005178/en/
CONTACT: Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic to Present at Upcoming Investor Conferences
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 21, 2022
End of Document
The Best Airlines in the World for Students and Youth Revealed
The Best Airlines in the World for Students and Youth Revealed
Business Wire
November 2, 2022 Wednesday 1:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 545 words
Dateline: WALTHAM, Mass. 
Body
StudentUniverse, the world's leading online travel agency for students and youth, has announced the winners of its 
2022 Best Airlines for Students Awards, after surveying its 1m+ database of student travelers around the world.
Delta performed well among US students, taking the top spot in three of the six categories, including Best Airline for 
International Travel, Best Airline Service and Most Trustworthy Airline, though American Airlines stepped in to take 
first prize for Best Overall Airline.
It was a clean sweep for Air Canada among Canadian students. The national carrier came first in all six categories, 
which also included Best Airline for Domestic Travel and Best Value Airline.
Meanwhile in the UK, budget carrier easyJet won Best Overall Airline and Best Airline Service, and fellow budget 
carrier Ryanair took home Best Value Airline. National carrier British Airways also performed well, winning two top 
spots, including Most Trusted Airline. Emirates was favourite in the international category.
Australian students rewarded Virgin Australia for its strong investment in student travel, voting it number one in the 
Best Overall Airline, Best Value Airline and Best Airline Service categories. Qantas won in the trust and domestic 
fields, while Singapore Airlines scooped first prize for international travel.
StudentUniverse's Global Managing Director Steven de Blois said: "This year we have welcomed the strong bounce 
back of travel, with students and youth a key group driving the recovery forward.
"It is so important that this market is not overlooked by airlines - young people travel for so many reasons, including 
holidays, education, work opportunities, and overseas experiences. Congratulations to all the airlines that have 
been recognised in this year's awards."
Full list of '2022 Best Airlines for Students Awards'
USA
Best Airline for International Travel: Delta
Best Airline for Domestic Travel: American Airlines
Best Value Airline: American Airlines
Best Airline Service: Delta
The Best Airlines in the World for Students and Youth Revealed
Most Trusted Airline: Delta
Best Overall Airline: American Airlines
Canada
Best Airline for International Travel: Air Canada
Best Airline for Domestic Travel: Air Canada
Best Value Airline: Air Canada
Best Airline Service: Air Canada
Most Trusted Airline: Air Canada
Best Overall Airline: Air Canada
UK
Best Airline for International Travel: Emirates
Best Airline for Europe Travel: British Airways
Best Value Airline: Ryanair
Best Airline Service: easyJet
Most Trusted Airline: British Airways
Best Overall Airline: easyJet
Australia
Best for International Travel: Singapore Airlines
Best Airline for Domestic Travel: Qantas Airways
Best Value Airline: Virgin Australia
Best Airline Service: Virgin Australia
Most Trusted Airline: Qantas Airways
Best Overall Airline: Virgin Australia
About StudentUniverse:
StudentUniverse is a tech company that operates the world's largest student and youth travel marketplace. With a 
network of global partners, StudentUniverse offers exclusive pricing and terms for members.
With operations in the US, UK, Australia, Canada and the Philippines, StudentUniverse empowers students and 
youth to travel more. StudentUniverse is owned by Flight Centre Travel Group
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221102005545/en/
CONTACT: Media Inquiries:
Allison Wallace
VP Communications, Flight Centre Travel Group
E: Allison.wallace@flightcentre.ca
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 2, 2022
End of Document
New Relic Announces Date of Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2023 Financial Results Conference Call
New Relic Announces Date of Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2023 Financial 
Results Conference Call
Business Wire
October 18, 2022 Tuesday 9:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 271 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic (NYSE: NEWR), the observability company, announced it will report its financial results for fiscal year 
2023 second quarter, which ended September 30, 2022, after market close on Tuesday, November 8, 2022. The 
company will host a conference call at 2:00 p.m. PT / 5:00 p.m. ET to review the financial results and business 
outlook with the investment community. A live webcast and replay of the event will be available on the New Relic 
Investor Relations website at http://ir.newrelic.com .
About New Relic
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including Adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, TopGolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221018006286/en/
CONTACT: Media Contact
Kerry Baker
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Ingo Friedrichowitz
New Relic, Inc.
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
New Relic Announces Date of Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2023 Financial Results Conference Call
Load-Date: October 18, 2022
End of Document
US Majors Take Top Spot While Low-Cost Carriers Rise up the Cirium Global Airline Rankings
US Majors Take Top Spot While Low-Cost Carriers Rise up the Cirium Global 
Airline Rankings
Business Wire
September 1, 2022 Thursday 8:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 839 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
The major US carriers made a clean sweep of the top four places as aviation analytics firm Cirium revealed its 
World Airline Passenger Rankings for 2021.
This 
press 
release 
features 
multimedia. 
View 
the 
full 
release 
here: 
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220831005886/en/
US majors take top spot while low-cost carriers rise up the Cirium global airlines rankings. (Graphic: Business Wire)
American Airlines stays on top of the ranking again in 2021, followed by Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and 
Southwest Airlines, demonstrating the strength of the recovery that continues to take place in the US domestic 
market.
Overall, airlines in North America showed 75% growth from the low point in 2020, although still ending last year 
down by 40% on 2019 traffic levels, as measured in Revenue Passenger Kilometers/Miles (RPKs/RPMs).
The ranking, which is based on over 600 operators tracked in the Cirium airline database, shows that world traffic 
ended 2021 down by 57% against the pre-pandemic peak. In terms of passenger numbers, the total stood at 2.3 
billion for the year, representing around half of the volumes from the peak in 2019.
Low-cost carriers continued to rise up the rankings across the regions. Ryanair cemented its place as Europe's 
largest carrier, sitting in fifth place just below Southwest, and was the only European airline to make it into the top 
10.
Europe's major network carriers have fared less well over the past couple of years, as demand for long-haul, 
premium travel remained depressed. Although Air France held steady at 13th place, Lufthansa slipped down the 
rankings and British Airways fell out of the top 20 altogether. Virgin Atlantic also dropped more than 50 places as it 
too suffered from the slow return of long-haul and premium traffic.
The big three carriers in mainland China - China Southern, China Eastern and Air China - held their place toward 
the top of the ranking, although that could change after a renewed round of COVID-19 lockdowns in Chinese cities 
so far this year.
US Majors Take Top Spot While Low-Cost Carriers Rise up the Cirium Global Airline Rankings
Across Asia Pacific as a whole - in stark contrast to recovery in all other world regions - airlines saw traffic fall again 
last year. Cathay Pacific slipped spectacularly, falling out of the top 100 ranking entirely following Hong-Kong's 
pursuit of an aggressive zero-COVID strategy. It was not alone. Carriers across the region in Indonesia, Malaysia, 
South Korea and Thailand also continued to shrink.
In Japan, All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines had lost nearly 85% of their traffic in 2020 and were still down by 
around 75% by the end of 2021. Both fell steeply down the rankings as a result.
Jeremy Bowen, Cirium CEO, said: "Pre-pandemic, Asia Pacific airlines held the single largest share of global 
passenger traffic, with over a third of the world total. By 2021 the region was overtaken by North America, led by the 
strong recovery in domestic US flying."
Two Gulf carriers, Emirates and Qatar Airways, both retained their position within the top 10 airlines, although the 
gap between them narrowed. Emirates slipped four places to sit just ahead of a rising Qatar Airways, which has 
made a point of maintaining as much of its network as possible.
Turkish Airlines, helped by an extensive domestic market free of cross-border travel restrictions, climbed four 
places to 10th in the latest ranking compared with 2019.
The Cirium ranking highlights the struggle which mainline carriers have faced, especially those relying on a strong 
mix of business travel and long-haul flying. By 2021 their share of world passenger traffic had slipped some five 
percentage points to 64%. That decline was largely picked up by low-cost carriers, who raised their share to 26%.
Cirium's World Airline Passenger Ranking 2021 is a premium analysis available in Cirium Dashboard. The report 
features:
•
The Top 200 airlines by passenger traffic
•
The Top 50 airline groups by passenger traffic
•
The Top 50 airlines by passenger volume
•
Passenger traffic by region and by airline type 2019-2021
•
Share of passenger traffic by airline region and airline type
•
Share of passenger volume by airline type
Click here to download the full report.
Ends
About Cirium
Cirium brings together powerful data and analytics to keep the world moving. Delivering insight, built from decades 
of experience in the sector, enabling travel companies, aircraft manufacturers, airports, airlines and financial 
institutions, among others, to make logical and informed decisions which shape the future of travel, growing 
revenues and enhancing customer experiences. Cirium is part of RELX, a global provider of information-based 
analytics and decision tools for professional and business customers. The shares of RELX PLC are traded on the 
London, Amsterdam and New York Stock Exchanges using the following ticker symbols: London: REL; Amsterdam: 
REN; New York: RELX.
For further information please follow Cirium updates on LinkedIn or Twitter or visit www.cirium.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220831005886/en/
CONTACT: For media enquiries:
Cirium media team at media@cirium.com
Juliett Alpha (Mike Arnot) at cirium@juliettalpha.com
US Majors Take Top Spot While Low-Cost Carriers Rise up the Cirium Global Airline Rankings
The PC Agency (Paul Charles/Michael Johnson/Callum McGoldrick) at cirium@pc.agency
http://www.businesswire.com
Graphic
 
US majors take top spot while low-cost carriers rise up the Cirium global airlines rankings. (Graphic: Business Wire)
Load-Date: September 1, 2022
End of Document
New Relic Announces David Barter as Chief Financial Officer; Former CFO of C3 AI and Model N joins New 
Relic to accelerate its business goals and mission to hel....
New Relic Announces David Barter as Chief Financial Officer; Former CFO 
of C3 AI and Model N joins New Relic to accelerate its business goals and 
mission to help every engineer use data, not opinions at every stage of the 
software lifecycle
Business Wire
August 4, 2022 Thursday 8:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 783 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
New Relic (NYSE: NEWR), the observability company, announced David Barter as the company's next Chief 
Financial Officer. In this role, Barter will oversee global finance operations. Barter will assume the CFO role from 
Mark Sachleben, who, as previously announced , will retire from the company after 14 years of service.
"David brings exceptional experience accelerating the business goals of high growth companies like Microsoft and 
General Electric, and is the right leader to be our next CFO," said New Relic CEO Bill Staples. "His fresh 
perspective, integrity, decisiveness, and accountability will be invaluable to New Relic as we continue to drive our 
long-term growth strategy of putting the power of data in the hands of the world's software engineers."
Barter brings nearly three decades of high-growth public and private company finance experience to New Relic. 
Most recently, Barter served as CFO of C3 AI, where he led the company through a successful IPO. Previously, he 
held the CFO position at Model N and led finance teams at Microsoft, General Electric, and Guidewire Software. 
Barter is an established business leader with proven success leading the financial strategies of public companies in 
the technology sector. He holds a Master of Business Administration and Master of Engineering Management from 
Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management, and a Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance 
and Philosophy from University of Notre Dame.
"I was drawn to New Relic because of its reputation as an industry-leading observability company and its focus on 
engineers with an innovative platform and business model," said David Barter. "I'm looking forward to working with 
the excellent team already in place, and helping the business scale to realize its growth and profitability goals while 
delivering industry leading software to its customers."
The company expects its Board of Directors to formally appoint Mr. Barter to the role on August 17, 2022, at which 
time Mr. Sachleben will transition into an advisory role. For more information on career opportunities at New Relic, 
please visit www.newrelic.com/about/careers .
About New Relic
New Relic Announces David Barter as Chief Financial Officer; Former CFO of C3 AI and Model N joins New 
Relic to accelerate its business goals and mission to hel....
As a leader in observability, New Relic empowers engineers with a data-driven approach to planning, building, 
deploying, and running great software. New Relic delivers the only unified data platform that empowers engineers 
to get all telemetry-metrics, events, logs, and traces-paired with powerful full stack analysis tools to help engineers 
do their best work with data, not opinions. Delivered through the industry's first usage-based consumption pricing 
that's intuitive and predictable, New Relic gives engineers more value for the money by helping improve planning 
cycle times, change failure rates, release frequency, and mean time to resolution. This helps the world's leading 
brands including adidas Runtastic, American Red Cross, Australia Post, Banco Inter, Chegg, GoTo Group, Ryanair, 
Sainsbury's, Signify Health, TopGolf, and World Fuel Services (WFS) improve uptime, reliability, and operational 
efficiency to deliver exceptional customer experiences that fuel innovation and growth. www.newrelic.com .
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements, as that term is defined under the federal securities laws, 
including but not limited to statements regarding the appointment of Mr. Barter, and the experiences and value that 
he will bring to New Relic. The achievement or success of the matters covered by such forward-looking statements 
are based on New Relic's current assumptions, expectations, and beliefs and are subject to substantial risks, 
uncertainties, assumptions, and changes in circumstances that may cause New Relic's actual results, performance, 
or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. Further 
information on factors that could affect New Relic's financial and other results and the forward-looking statements in 
this press release is included in the filings New Relic makes with the SEC from time to time, including in New 
Relic's most recent Form 10-K and any subsequent Form 10-Q, particularly under the captions "Risk Factors" and 
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Copies of these 
documents may be obtained by visiting New Relic's Investor Relations website at http://ir.newrelic.com or the SEC's 
website at www.sec.gov . New Relic assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking 
statements, except as required by law.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220804005867/en/
CONTACT: Media Contact
Elena Keamy
New Relic, Inc.
PR@newrelic.com Investor Contact
Peter Goldmacher
New Relic, Inc.
503-336-9280
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 4, 2022
End of Document
Global Smart Parking Market Analysis Report 2022 Featuring Continental, Cubic, TKH Group, Cisco Systems, 
3M, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone, & Mindteck - ResearchAn....
Global Smart Parking Market Analysis Report 2022 Featuring Continental, 
Cubic, TKH Group, Cisco Systems, 3M, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone, & 
Mindteck - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
May 3, 2022 Tuesday 10:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 905 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Global Smart Parking Market, Size, Forecast 2022-2027, Industry Trends, Growth, Outlook, Impact of COVID-
19, Opportunity Company Analysis" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
Global Smart Parking Market will reach US$ 11.2 Billion by 2027 from US$ 4.1 Billion in 2021, growing at a CAGR 
of 18.2%
According to ITS America's Market Analysis, fishing for parking is routine. It is estimated that drivers cruising for 
parking space create nearly 30% of urban congestion. Also resulting in oil wastage, almost 1 million barrels of 
world's oil every day.
This ever-growing traffic congestion and uncertainty in parking availability and payment have thus enforced the 
need for Smart Parking systems. An intelligent parking technology enables optimized parking space use, enhances 
the efficiency of the parking operations, and helps smoother traffic flow. It is an intelligent parking system that 
allows drivers in safe parking.
Further, the increase in parking problems across the globe, growth in demand for (IoT) Internet of Things based 
technology, and high adoption rate in several vehicles drive the demand for the global smart parking market.
Moreover, the system is highly convenient for the users as it reduces unnecessary paper consumption by replacing 
cash payments for parking with digital invoices sent directly on the user's Smartphone.
COVID-19 Impact on Worldwide Smart Parking Industry
Regardless, the COVID-19 outbreak has considerably slowed down the market due to the varying levels of 
lockdowns implemented across several countries globally.
The impact of this slowdown is to be experienced in the short term. As industry re-opens, smart parking systems 
are predicted to regain demand due to the potential rise in the usage of private transportation and its result on the 
demand for smart parking space management.
Global Smart Parking Market Analysis Report 2022 Featuring Continental, Cubic, TKH Group, Cisco Systems, 
3M, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone, & Mindteck - ResearchAn....
Off Street Segment dominates the Market
In terms of type, the off street segment dominates the market due to the increasing need for single slots to park 
maximum cars. The growing adoption of off-street parking can be ascribed to the increasing demand to utilize 
accommodate and space many cars in a single slot.
Smart city initiatives demand better parking space utilization using smart, sensor-based vehicle detection 
technology to manage parking issues. The increased number of industries requiring adequate parking and smart 
detection facilities further contributes to the segment growth.
Transport Facilities Segment is Experiencing the Fastest Growth
On the basis of end-users, the smart parking market is segmented into Transport Facilities, Governments, 
Municipalities, Commercial Institutions, Corporate institutions.
Transport Facilities segment is witnessing the fastest growth, due to increased travel by airplanes. Airport 
authorities globally offer the facility to book or reserve parking spaces through its mobile apps and website. Online 
airport ticket vendors such as Ryanair deliver the facility to reserve parking spaces at the airport while booking 
airline tickets. Thus, is anticipated to drive the transport transit segment growth over the forecast period.
Geographically North America & Europe has Significant Market Share
North America holds the significant market due to the rising number of vehicles in the region. Civic authorities in 
U.S. and Canada are driving efforts to reduce traffic congestions, which has been gaining more and more severe 
with the growth in vehicle ownership. The expanded adoption of smart parking systems is part of the steps which 
help deliver safe and legal parking for private and commercial vehicles.
The Asia Pacific is also gaining its market share year on year. This growth is primarily due to the rise in vehicles' 
manufacturing in countries like China and India. Another factor, such as the growing demand for advanced 
technologies to reduce the effect on the environment in this region, is likely to give rise in demand of smart parking 
in this region.
Competitive Landscape
This smart parking industry has several companies working in this field for market share.
The key industry participants include
•
Continental AG
•
Cubic Corp
•
TKH Group
•
Cisco Systems Inc
•
3M Corporation
•
Deutsche Telekom AG
•
Vodafone Group Plc
•
Mindteck
Key Topics Covered:
1. Introduction
2. Research & Methodology
Global Smart Parking Market Analysis Report 2022 Featuring Continental, Cubic, TKH Group, Cisco Systems, 
3M, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone, & Mindteck - ResearchAn....
3. Executive Summary
4. Market Dynamic
4.1 Growth Drivers
4.2 Challenges
5. Global Smart Parking Market
6. Market Share - Global Smart Parking Market
6.1 By Type
6.2 By Application
6.3 By End User
6.4 By Regions
7. Type - Global Smart Parking Market
7.1 Off - Street
7.2 On - Street
8. Application - Global Smart Parking Market
8.1 Security & Surveillance
8.2 Smart Payment System
8.3 License Plate Recognition
8.4 Other Application
9. End Users - Global Smart Parking Market
9.1 Transport Facilities
9.2 Governments and Municipalities
9.3 Commercial Institutions
9.4 Corporate Institution
10. Regions - Global Smart Parking Market
10.1 North America
10.2 Europe
10.3 Asia - Pacific
10.4 Middle East & Africa
10.5 Latin America
11. Porters Five Forces
Global Smart Parking Market Analysis Report 2022 Featuring Continental, Cubic, TKH Group, Cisco Systems, 
3M, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone, & Mindteck - ResearchAn....
11.1 Overview
11.2 Bargaining Power of Buyers
11.3 Bargaining Power of Suppliers
11.4 Degree of Competition
11.5 Threat of New Entrants
11.6 Threat of Substitutes
12. Company Analysis
12.1 Overview
12.2 Recent Development & Strategies
12.3 Financial Insights
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/o8kht4
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220503005747/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 3, 2022
End of Document
Travel and Tourism - Global Industry Analytics and Growth Projections Featuring Profiles of Leading Players 
2016-2025 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Travel and Tourism - Global Industry Analytics and Growth Projections 
Featuring Profiles of Leading Players 2016-2025 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
February 28, 2022 Monday 3:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 669 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Travel and Tourism - Market Summary, Competitive Analysis and Forecast, 2016-2025" report has been 
added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The 'Global Travel & Tourism' industry profile provides top-line qualitative and quantitative summary information 
including: Industry size (value 2016-20, and forecast to 2025). The profile also contains descriptions of the leading 
players including key financial metrics and analysis of competitive pressures within the Industry.
Key Highlights
•
The length of the pandemic and restrictions introduced by various countries are still difficult to predict, 
though many governments had introduced the national lockdowns and temporarily banned sales of 
products that are deemed "non essential". As the length of the pandemic and its impact on this market is 
not certain, the data used in this report has been modelled on the assumption of a crisis scenario and has 
taken into consideration forecast impacts on national economics.
•
The global travel and tourism industry had total revenues of $4,468.4bn in 2020, representing a compound 
annual rate of change (CARC) of -10.5% between 2016 and 2020.
•
The foodservice segment generated the most revenue in 2020, with total revenues of $2,211.2bn, 
equivalent to 49.5% of the industry's overall value.
•
The industry has been devastated by the global outbreak of COVID-19, which led to an unprecedented 
decline of 43.5% in 2020.
Scope
•
Save time carrying out entry-level research by identifying the size, growth, major segments, and leading 
players in the global travel & tourism Industry
•
Use the Five Forces analysis to determine the competitive intensity and therefore attractiveness of the 
global travel & tourism Industry
•
Leading company profiles reveal details of key travel & tourism Industry players' global operations and 
financial performance
Travel and Tourism - Global Industry Analytics and Growth Projections Featuring Profiles of Leading Players 
2016-2025 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Add weight to presentations and pitches by understanding the future growth prospects of the global travel 
& tourism Industry with five year forecasts
Reasons to Buy
•
What was the size of the global travel & tourism Industry by value in 2020?
•
What will be the size of the global travel & tourism Industry in 2025?
•
What factors are affecting the strength of competition in the global travel & tourism Industry?
•
How has the Industry performed over the last five years?
•
What are the main segments that make up the global travel & tourism Industry?
Companies Mentioned
•
Restaurant Brands International Inc
•
McDonald's Corp
•
Choice Hotels International Inc
•
Shanghai Jin Jiang Capital Co Ltd
•
Marriott International Inc
•
Wyndham Hotels and Resorts LLC
•
Delta Air Lines Inc
•
Deutsche Lufthansa AG
•
Yum! Brands, Inc.
•
GreenTree Hospitality Group Ltd
•
Huazhu Group Ltd
•
Whitbread PLC
•
Starbucks Corporation
•
Ryanair Holdings plc
•
Accor SA
•
IAE International Aero Engines AG
•
Contact-Hotel Association
•
The Originals, Human Hotels & Resorts
•
Air France-KLM SA
•
Groupe Le Duff SA
•
Ringhotels EV
•
NORDSEE GmbH
•
Cigierre - Compagnia Generale Ristorazione SpA
•
Alitalia - Societa Aerea Italiana SpA
•
Best Western International Inc
•
Cremonini SpA
•
easyJet Airline Company Ltd
Travel and Tourism - Global Industry Analytics and Growth Projections Featuring Profiles of Leading Players 
2016-2025 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Central Japan Railway Company
•
Skylark Holdings Co Ltd
•
Route Inn Japan Co Ltd
•
Toyoko Inn Co Ltd
•
Akindo Sushiro Co Ltd
•
Domino's Pizza, Inc.
•
Flight Centre Travel Group Ltd
•
Australian Leisure and Hospitality Group
•
WestJet Airlines Ltd
•
American Airlines Inc
•
Air Canada
•
China Eastern Airlines Corp Ltd
•
China Southern Airlines Co Ltd
•
TUI Group
•
Fletcher Hotel Group
•
Van der Valk Hotels & Restaurants
•
Sligro Food Group NV
•
Barcelo Hotels and Resorts
•
NH Hotel Group SA
•
Melia Hotels International SA
•
Restalia Grupo de Eurorestauracion SL
•
Ei Group Ltd
•
Travelport Worldwide Ltd
•
Expedia Group Inc
•
Greene King Limited
•
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc
•
Booking Holdings Inc
•
Travelodge Hotels Ltd. (Inactive)
•
Southwest Airlines Co
•
Doctor's Associates Inc
•
Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/s5qxdp
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220228005796/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
Travel and Tourism - Global Industry Analytics and Growth Projections Featuring Profiles of Leading Players 
2016-2025 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 28, 2022
End of Document
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Report 2021-2025 - Market Snapshot, Key Trends and Insights, Company 
Profiles and Future Outlook - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Report 2021-2025 - Market Snapshot, Key 
Trends and Insights, Company Profiles and Future Outlook - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
February 14, 2022 Monday 12:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 360 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Global Low Cost Airlines Market to 2025 - Market Snapshot, Key Trends and Insights, Company Profiles and 
Future Outlook" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The Low Cost Airline Market report provides in-depth analysis of the key market trends that are shaping the future 
of this segment and an analysis of the low cost airline market globally. Detailed market insight is provided on the 
Americas, Asia-Pacific, Middle East & Africa, and Europe. It also features profiles of some of the segment's leading 
players and looks at how companies can better meet their customers' needs.
Scope
•
Though the US was the worst affected country by the coronavirus pandemic, the LCC market in the 
country managed to be number 1 in terms of seats sold in 2020, with 115.5 million seats sold. Spain and 
the UK held the second and third positions, respectively.
•
The pandemic has transformed the customer preferences to a greater extend with safety and hygiene 
becoming the need of the hour. As social distancing is the new normal, the demand for digitalized services 
and contactless technologies is also booming.
•
By keeping costs down and prices low, the ULCCs have managed to gain a considerable market share 
from legacy competitors and have developed a new demographic segment called family flyers, who earlier 
used to either travel by car or stay home.
Reasons to Buy
•
Understand the impact of COVID-19 on this market
•
Gauge which are the biggest and most promising regional markets for the low cost airlines market
•
Understand the demand-side dynamics within the industry to identify key trends and growth opportunities
•
Gain an understanding of the outlook for regional markets and learn from existing successes and our 
recommendations.
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Report 2021-2025 - Market Snapshot, Key Trends and Insights, Company 
Profiles and Future Outlook - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Key Topics Covered:
•
Snapshot
•
Key Trends
•
Deals
•
Key Insights
•
Americas
•
Asia-Pacific
•
Europe
•
Middle East and Africa
•
Outlook
•
Company Profiles
•
Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Ryanair
•
easyJet
•
Southwest Airlines
•
IndiGo
•
AirAsia
•
Allegiant
•
Spirit
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/4sfnop
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220214005472/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 14, 2022
End of Document
Visit Tampere : Nokia Arena, The Largest Multi-function Arena in Finland Opened in Tampere The new 
multipurpose arena has been built over the railway tracks in ....
Visit Tampere: Nokia Arena, The Largest Multi-function Arena in Finland 
Opened in Tampere; The new multipurpose arena has been built over the 
railway tracks in the core of Tampere, right by excellent traffic connections. 
Europe's leading multifunctional sports, business and entertainment arena 
is supported by state-of-the-art digital technology.
Business Wire
February 1, 2022 Tuesday 5:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 397 words
Dateline: TAMPERE, Finland 
Body
Tampere has in recent years been a model example of a city that ambitiously builds for the future. The summer of 
2021 saw the opening of a tramline, and the new multipurpose arena, Nokia Arena opened its doors in December 
2021 and can at its largest accommodate up to 15,000 spectators at a concert.
This 
press 
release 
features 
multimedia. 
View 
the 
full 
release 
here: 
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220131005032/en/
Nokia Area, the largest multi-function arena in Finland opened in Tampere. Photo: Skyfox, Marko Kallio (Photo: 
Business Wire)
In addition to the newly inaugurated arena, the complex also houses an on-site hotel, the Lapland Hotels Arena . 
The new hotel offers rooms in different categories, including rooms with a balcony overlooking the bowl of Nokia 
Arena. And as Tampere is the Sauna Capital of the World , it is only natural, that there is a private sauna in all of 70 
of the hotel rooms.
According to Finns, Tampere with its 50 public saunas in the region is the most loved residential and tourism city in 
Finland.
Tampere is easy to reach
Starting from May 2022 there will be all-year-round direct flights to Tampere by airBaltic from Frankfurt, 
Copenhagen, Munich and Oslo three times a week and to Málaga and Rhodes twice a week. In addition airBaltic 
will continue operations to Riga. Tampere-Pirkkala airport will be airBaltic's first non-Baltic base airport. There are 
also daily flight connections by Scandinavian Airlines (SAS) from Stockholm and by Finnair from Helsinki and 
several flights a week from Riga. Additionally, there are all-year-round flights from London by Ryanair.
Visit Tampere : Nokia Arena, The Largest Multi-function Arena in Finland Opened in Tampere The new 
multipurpose arena has been built over the railway tracks in ....
- Tampere's growth and attractiveness have made it the second metropolis in Finland. The only real growth corridor 
in Finland formed by Tampere and Helsinki continues to strengthen. Now they both provide seamless connections 
to the world. Direct flights to other European cities ensure the success and development of the Tampere 
metropolitan area as a center for export industries, the event and experience economy, and research and 
innovation center of northern Europe. Market-based air traffic is strengthening for the whole of Finland and it is a 
positive thing for both business and leisure travellers, says Harri Airaksinen, CEO of Business Tampere and Visit 
Tampere .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220131005032/en/
CONTACT: Harri Airaksinen
CEO, Visit Tampere and Business Tampere
harri.airaksinen@visittampere.fi
tel. +358 40 504 1215Noora Heino
Director, Global Sales & Marketing
noora.heino@visittampere.fi
tel. +358 44 537 8337 https://visittampere.fi/en/
https://businesstampere.com/
http://www.businesswire.com
Graphic
 
Nokia Area, the largest multi-function arena in Finland opened in Tampere. Photo: Skyfox, Marko Kallio (Photo: 
Business Wire)
Load-Date: February 1, 2022
End of Document
North Africa Tourism Destination Market Insights Analysis Report 2021: COVID-19 Impact, Projects & 
Developments, Source Markets, Types of Tourism, Destination F....
North Africa Tourism Destination Market Insights Analysis Report 2021: 
COVID-19 Impact, Projects & Developments, Source Markets, Types of 
Tourism, Destination Focus - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
January 4, 2022 Tuesday 7:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 381 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Tourism Destination Market Insight - North Africa" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's 
offering.
Analysis of destination markets, infrastructure and attractions, as well as risks and opportunities in North Africa. 
This report explores the types of travelers that visit the country as well as a SWOT analysis.
Key Highlights
•
North Africa's destination has had a turbulent time over recent years, with inbound tourist figures rising and 
falling in response to political events and acts of terrorism. After experiencing a few years of recovery, the 
Coronavirus had a devastating impact on tourism resulting in inbound trips falling by 78% and domestic 
tourism falling by 61% in 2020. Historically, Morocco, Tunisia and Egypt have received a significant amount 
of investment in tourism infrastructure. However, Algeria is emerging as a potential competitor, with tourism 
increased between 2009 and 2019. With major advancements in infrastructure within the North of Egypt 
and a positive economic outlook over the next five to ten years, the tourism industry will likely see exciting 
new developments.
Scope
•
This report is part of The publisher's Destination Market Insights Series. These reports provide an in-depth 
analysis of a tourist destination and its key source markets, as well as an assessment of the trends and 
issues in the covered destination market, in this case North Africa.
Reasons to Buy
•
Obtain a clear and detailed insight into new developments in a popular tourist destination.
•
Use data and analysis to explore future trends related to international arrivals, airlines, niche tourism, and 
hotel developments.
•
Gain a strong understanding of the opportunities in the market, as well as the risks, to support better 
business decisions.
North Africa Tourism Destination Market Insights Analysis Report 2021: COVID-19 Impact, Projects & 
Developments, Source Markets, Types of Tourism, Destination F....
Key Topics Covered:
•
Overview
•
Key Trends
•
COVID-19 Impact
•
Projects & Developments
•
Source Markets
•
Types of Tourism
•
Destination Focus
•
Regional Risk and SWOT Analysis
•
Appendix and References
Companies Mentioned
•
Ryanair
•
easyJet
•
Royal Air Maroc
•
Air Arabia
•
TUI
•
Jet2holidays
•
Pegas Touristik
•
WestAF
•
Airbnb
•
Booking Holdings
•
Expedia
•
Hilton
•
Intercontinental
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/u83wu8
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220104005951/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 4, 2022
North Africa Tourism Destination Market Insights Analysis Report 2021: COVID-19 Impact, Projects & 
Developments, Source Markets, Types of Tourism, Destination F....
End of Document
StudentUniverse Announces Top Airlines Chosen by Students & Youth
StudentUniverse Announces Top Airlines Chosen by Students & Youth
Business Wire
November 12, 2021 Friday 5:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 641 words
Dateline: WALTHAM, Mass. 
Body
StudentUniverse, the world's largest student and youth travel marketplace, is pleased to announce the winners of 
its 3rd Annual Airline Awards. StudentUniverse's student traveler database across four countries voted for airlines 
who excelled in 6 categories, including overall experience, value and service. A new addition this year, "Safest 
During Covid-19," allowed students to commend airlines for keeping travelers healthy and cared for during 
pandemic travel.
The 2021 Best Airlines for Students are:
Best Overall Airline for Students [US]: American Airlines
For the second year running, American Airlines was voted best overall airline by US students. Now operating flights 
to 350+ destinations, American Airlines has established itself as one of the leading travel brands. Students ranked 
American Airlines as the best student airline for their value, service, reliability and overall experience.
One student commented, "American Airlines was my favorite airline prior to COVID-19 but especially since the 
pandemic, their cleaning and safety procedures are efficient and done often ...I rely on air travel to get to and from 
home at the end of each semester, which can be very expensive.... Thankfully, Student Universe's partnership with 
American Airlines helps us to save money and get me home safely. I plan to use American Airlines exclusively for 
the remainder of my college career."
In the US, American Airlines was not only voted Best Overall, but also swept the 5 remaining categories.
As the first airline to win every award in one country, Louis de Joux, Managing Director of Leisure, Specialty, and 
Groups at American Airlines and President of American Airlines Vacations said, "We're honored to be recognized 
for our commitment to helping student and youth travelers broaden their horizons through travel, and are immensely 
grateful for the leading role that Student Universe plays in the travel ecosystem."
Best Overall Airline for Students [CA]: Air Canada
In Canada, Air Canada also had a clean sweep of all six categories, with students labeling them, "most reliable," 
"cheapest," and "very accommodating."
StudentUniverse Announces Top Airlines Chosen by Students & Youth
"Air Canada is very proud to have won in all six Canadian categories in this year's Student Universe annual survey 
and we thank the students who travel with us for their loyalty. The student demographic is highly discerning, and we 
are pleased to be able to respond to their unique needs. Today's students are tomorrow's frequent business and 
leisure travellers, which is why we are committed to continually elevate our services to ensure this relationship 
remains strong far into the future," said Lisa Pierce, Vice President, Canada and U.S. Sales at Air Canada.
Across the UK and Australia, British Airways, Ryanair, Turkish Airlines, Qantas Airlines and Virgin Australia all 
received student awards.
"While 2021 was another challenging year in aviation, students and youth have been among the most active with 
respect to travel and are a critical demographic for this industry in terms of recovery," said StudentUniverse 
Managing Director, Steven de Blois. "As the world's largest student survey, we're setting the global standard for 
airline awards amongst this group."
Find the full list of winners on StudentUniverse.com .
About StudentUniverse
Launched in 2000, StudentUniverse operates the world's largest student and youth travel marketplace. Through 
negotiations with a network of global partners, StudentUniverse offers exclusive pricing and terms for students. With 
operations in the US, UK, Australia, Canada, and the Philippines, StudentUniverse empowers students to travel 
more. Acquired in 2015, StudentUniverse is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Flight Centre Travel Group, one of the 
world's largest travel companies.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20211112005800/en/
CONTACT: Media:
Allison Wallace
VP, Communications
Flight Centre Travel Group, the Americas
allison.wallace@flightcentre.ca
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Aviation Environmental Sustainability Case Study 2021 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Aviation Environmental Sustainability Case Study 2021 - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
July 13, 2021 Tuesday 10:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 503 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Environmental Sustainability in Aviation - Case Study" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's 
offering.
This case study looks at the impact environmental sustainability is having on the aviation industry and assesses the 
impact across airlines, airports and aerospace players. It then takes an in-depth look consumer attitudes towards 
environmental sustainability, the industry's impact on the environment, innovations, industry scorecards, and 
recommendations.
Key Highlights
•
A major theme that has emerged is for airports to become carbon neutral. The new gold standard in 
environmental sustainability will demand cultural and operational changes for airports to realistically 
achieve this aim. Simply turning to solar or wind power instead of fossil-fueled electricity is a start, but not 
enough, and major changes must be taken.
•
For years, many airlines have offered passengers the option to offset the carbon produced from their flight 
and a few airlines are taking this one step further by adding mandatory green charges to ticket prices.
•
Leisure travel is the most obvious to be impacted by the flight shaming movement, but some socially 
focused companies are beginning to make policy changes to reduce the impact their operations have on 
carbon emissions.
Scope
•
This case study looks at the impact environmental sustainability is having on the aviation industry and 
assesses the impact across airlines, airports and aerospace players. It then takes an in-depth look 
consumer attitudes towards environmental sustainability, the industry's impact on the environment, 
innovations, industry scorecards, and recommendations.
Reasons to Buy
•
Understand consumer sentiment towards environmental sustainability and the impact on the aviation 
industry.
•
Obtain a clearer picture of the innovations the sector is taking to tackle the environmental crisis.
Aviation Environmental Sustainability Case Study 2021 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Gain an understanding of how sustainable aviation fuels will support the industry in its quest towards 
carbon neutrality.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Environmental Sustainability Overview
•
Environmental Sustainability
•
Aviation's Impact on Carbon Emissions
•
Consumer Attitudes Towards Environmental Sustainability
•
Consumer Sentiment Towards Environmental Sustainability
•
Flight Shaming
•
UN Sustainable Development Goals
•
Sustainable Development Goals - Environmental Focus
•
Sustainability Innovations
•
Airport Sustainability Innovations
•
Airline Sustainability Innovations
•
Aerospace Sustainability Innovations
•
Sustainable Aviation Fuel
•
Sustainable Aviation Fuel Overview
•
Sustainable Aviation Fuel Developments
•
Industry Scorecards
•
Airline Scorecard
•
Airport Scorecard
•
Recommendations
•
Recommendations for the industry
•
Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
British Airways
•
Air France KLM
•
Amsterdam Schiphol Airport
•
Heathrow Airport
•
Loganair
•
easyJet
•
Airbus
•
Ryanair
•
International Airlines Group
•
Air Canada
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/dl84tr
Aviation Environmental Sustainability Case Study 2021 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210713005542/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 13, 2021
End of Document
Global Pilots on Ryanair Flight 4978
Global Pilots on Ryanair Flight 4978
Business Wire
May 24, 2021 Monday 3:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 487 words
Dateline: MONTREAL & BRUSSELS 
Body
The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations (IFALPA) and the European Cockpit Association (ECA) 
fully share the concerns expressed by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) regarding the forced 
landing of Ryanair Flight 4978 in Minsk, Belarus, on 23 May. Pilots are concerned that the intervention of the 
Belarussian Air Force was enacted for political reasons, in contravention of the Chicago Convention, and amounts 
to an act of unlawful interference, bearing all the hallmarks of state-sponsored hijacking.
We are calling for an independent enquiry into this occurrence and appropriate immediate response by safety and 
security authorities. This unprecedented act of unlawful interference will potentially upend all the assumptions about 
the safest response to bomb threats on flight and interceptions. Without trust and reliable information from States 
and Air Navigation Service Providers, handling both types of events becomes much riskier to manage.
IFALPA and ECA stress that the pilot-in-command always has the best overview of the actual situation on board 
and must be able to react according to the level of risk, regardless of external circumstances. Any measures taken 
by States to address a specific threat should enhance the crew's ability to assess the situation thoroughly.
Any military intervention against a civilian aircraft constitutes a wilful hazard to the safety of passengers and crew. 
IFALPA and ECA urge States and the International Aviation Community to investigate and take swift measures 
against similar occurrences. We also call upon the airline to provide full support to the pilots and cabin crew on 
board, both during the future investigation and regarding their physical and mental well-being after such a 
challenging and stressful event.
Note to Editors:
The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations represents more than 100,000 pilots in nearly 100 
countries around the globe. The mission of IFALPA is to promote the highest level of aviation safety worldwide and 
to be the global advocate of the piloting profession; providing representation, services and support to both our 
members and the aviation industry.
ECA is the representative body of over 40,000 pilots from across Europe, striving for the highest levels of aviation 
safety and fostering social rights and quality employment for pilots in Europe. Website: www.eurocockpit.be & 
twitter @eu_cockpit
Global Pilots on Ryanair Flight 4978
©2021 The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations. This publication is provided for information 
purposes only, in all cases pilots should follow their company's guidance and procedures. In the interest of flight 
safety, reproduction of this publication in whole or in part is encouraged. It may not be offered for sale or used 
commercially. All reprints must credit IFALPA.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210524005611/en/
CONTACT: For more information, please contact:
Emily Bitting, IFALPA Communications, communications@ifalpa.org
Kameliya Encheva, ECA Communications, communications@eurocockpit.be
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 24, 2021
End of Document
Worldwide Low-Cost Carrier Industry to 2025 - Increase in Air Passenger Traffic is Driving Growth - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Worldwide Low-Cost Carrier Industry to 2025 - Increase in Air Passenger 
Traffic is Driving Growth - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
May 21, 2021 Friday 12:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 688 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Global Low-Cost Carrier Market 2021-2025" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The publisher has been monitoring the low-cost carrier market and it is poised to grow by $94.06 billion during 
2021-2025, progressing at a CAGR of about 16% during the forecast period.
Our report on low-cost carrier market provides a holistic analysis, market size and forecast, trends, growth drivers, 
and challenges, as well as vendor analysis covering around 25 vendors.
The report offers an up-to-date analysis regarding the current global market scenario, latest trends and drivers, and 
the overall market environment. The market is driven by the increase in air passenger traffic, rising demand for air 
cargo, and the creation of new air routes to tap market potential.
The low-cost carrier market analysis includes type segment, service segment, and geographic landscape. This 
study identifies the rising preference for smart airports as one of the prime reasons driving the low-cost carrier 
market growth during the next few years. Also, the growing demand for luxury air travel and the increasing 
penetration of blockchain in airline industry will lead to sizable demand in the market.
Companies Mentioned
•
AirAsia Group Berhad
•
Deutsche Lufthansa AG
•
easyJet Airline Company Ltd.
•
InterGlobe Aviation Ltd.
•
Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA
•
Qantas Airways Ltd.
•
Ryanair DAC
•
Singapore Airlines Ltd.
•
Southwest Airlines Co.
Worldwide Low-Cost Carrier Industry to 2025 - Increase in Air Passenger Traffic is Driving Growth - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
WestJet Airlines Ltd.
The report on low-cost carrier market covers the following areas:
•
Low-cost carrier market sizing
•
Low-cost carrier market forecast
•
Low-cost carrier market industry analysis
The study was conducted using an objective combination of primary and secondary information including inputs 
from key participants in the industry. The report contains a comprehensive market and vendor landscape in addition 
to an analysis of the key vendors.
The publisher presents a detailed picture of the market by the way of study, synthesis, and summation of data from 
multiple sources by an analysis of key parameters such as profit, pricing, competition, and promotions. It presents 
various market facets by identifying the key industry influencers. The data presented is comprehensive, reliable, 
and a result of extensive research - both primary and secondary. The market research reports provide a complete 
competitive landscape and an in-depth vendor selection methodology and analysis using qualitative and 
quantitative research to forecast the accurate market growth.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Executive Summary
•
Market overview
2. Market Landscape
•
Market ecosystem
•
Value chain analysis
3. Market Sizing
•
Market definition
•
Market segment analysis
•
Market size 2020
•
Market outlook: Forecast for 2020 - 2025
4. Five Forces Analysis
•
Five forces summary
•
Bargaining power of buyers
•
Bargaining power of suppliers
•
Threat of new entrants
•
Threat of substitutes
•
Threat of rivalry
•
Market condition
5. Market Segmentation by Type
•
Market segments
•
Comparison by Type
Worldwide Low-Cost Carrier Industry to 2025 - Increase in Air Passenger Traffic is Driving Growth - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Narrow body - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
Wide body - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
Market opportunity by Type
6. Market Segmentation by Service
•
Market segments
•
Comparison by Service
•
Passenger service - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
Cargo service - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
Market opportunity by Service
7. Customer Landscape
8. Geographic Landscape
•
Geographic segmentation
•
Geographic comparison
•
APAC - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
North America - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
Europe - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
MEA - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
South America - Market size and forecast 2020-2025
•
Key leading countries
•
Market opportunity by geography
•
Market drivers
•
Market challenges
•
Market trends
9. Vendor Landscape
•
Vendor landscape
•
Landscape disruption
10. Vendor Analysis
•
Vendors covered
•
Market positioning of vendors
11. Appendix
•
Scope of the report
•
Currency conversion rates for US$
•
Research methodology
•
List of abbreviations
Worldwide Low-Cost Carrier Industry to 2025 - Increase in Air Passenger Traffic is Driving Growth - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/28j85p
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210521005263/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 21, 2021
End of Document
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Analysis and Forecasts 2020-2024 and the Market Impact of COVID-19 - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Analysis and Forecasts 2020-2024 and the 
Market Impact of COVID-19 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
October 29, 2020 Thursday 3:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 633 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Global Low Cost Airlines Market - Market Overview and Insights for Low-Cost Airlines to 2024" report has 
been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The Low-Cost Airline Market report provides in-depth analysis of the key market trends that are shaping the future 
of this segment and an analysis of the low-cost airline market globally. Detailed market insight is provided on the 
Americas, Asia-Pacific, Middle East & Africa, and Europe. It also features profiles of some of the segment's leading 
players and looks at how companies can better meet their customers' needs.
Key Highlights
•
The ban on air travel for several months on both domestic and international flights severely impacted the 
aviation industry in 2020. Restrictions have been lifted in a phased manner, yet many customers still refrain 
from traveling unless it is absolutely necessary.
•
Business travel is anticipated to take longer to recover than VFR and leisure. Travelers may still choose to 
fly for personal reasons post-pandemic. Companies on the other hand are likely to reduce their budgets for 
business travel saving costs, instead utilizing technology for meetings, etc.
•
United States (US) continues to hold its top spot in terms of seats sold in the world, followed by Spain and 
the UK. The increase in the number of seats sold is primarily attributed to the expansion of ultra low-cost 
carriers such as Spirit and Allegiant.
•
COVID-19 has caused colossal damage for the entire aviation industry, but low-cost airlines may be in a 
better position in comparison to full-service carriers. LCC's generally over more short-haul routes including 
domestic travel.
Scope
•
The report provides in-depth analysis of the key market trends that are shaping the future of this segment 
and an analysis of the low-cost airline market globally. Detailed market insight is provided on the Americas, 
Asia-Pacific, Middle East & Africa, and Europe.
•
It also features profiles of some of the segment's leading players and looks at how companies can better 
meet their customers' needs.
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Analysis and Forecasts 2020-2024 and the Market Impact of COVID-19 - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Key report benefits:
•
Understand the impact of COVID-19 on this market
•
Gauge which are the biggest and most promising regional markets for LCC market
•
Understand the demand-side dynamics within the industry to identify key trends and growth opportunities
•
Gain an understanding of the outlook for regional markets and learn from existing successes and 
recommendations
Key Topics Covered:
Snapshot
•
Key Trends
•
Deals
Key Insights
•
Americas
•
Asia-Pacific
•
Europe
•
Africa and Middle East
•
Outlook
Company Profiles
•
Southwest Airlines
•
Ryanair Holdings
•
easyJet
•
AirAsia
•
Indigo Airlines
Appendix
List of Figures
•
Figure 1: Top LCC Markets in 2019, number of seats sold (million)
•
Figure 2: Top five Americas markets: Number of seats sold, LCC (million)
•
Figure 3: Number of seats sold in Mexico's LCC market
•
Figure 4: Top five Asia-Pacific markets: Number of seats sold, LCC (million)
•
Figure 5: Number of seats sold in South Korea (million)
•
Figure 6: Top five Europe markets: Number of seats sold, LCC (million)
•
Figure 7: Top five Europe markets: Load factor (%), LCC
•
Figure 8: Top five Middle East & Africa markets: Number of seats sold, LCC (million)
•
Figure 9: Top five Middle East & Africa markets: load factor (%), LCC
•
Figure 10: Top 10 LCC markets by total number of seats sold, 2019 versus 2024 (million)
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/w6urj7
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Analysis and Forecasts 2020-2024 and the Market Impact of COVID-19 - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
About ResearchAndMarkets.com
ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. 
We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products and the latest trends.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20201029005919/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 29, 2020
End of Document
Insights on the Low Cost Evolution in the Travel & Tourism 2020 Market - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Insights on the Low Cost Evolution in the Travel & Tourism 2020 Market - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
July 15, 2020 Wednesday 11:19 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 772 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Low Cost Evolution in Travel & Tourism (2020) - Thematic Research" report has been added to 
ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
Low cost evolution has impacted the way we travel today, and it is imperative to keep up with trends in the low cost 
travel market.
This thematic research report takes an in-depth look at the theme of Low Cost Evolution including the major 
impacts it will have on the industry, across the key players and tourists. This report analyzes the key trends within 
online travel, then presents an array of case studies, observing the impacts and offering recommendations for travel 
& tourism companies. In addition, the major companies that are and have been involved within low cost evolution 
are then discussed.
The development of technology in the travel industry has allowed the low cost market to take off. By making fare 
comparisons easy using price comparison websites, alongside development of apps which give travelers 
information at their fingertips has made low cost travel a lot easier and accessible. Technology development is a 
key trend in low cost evolution, as it spans over many categories including booking, marketing, accessibility and 
much more. Technology will be even more important amid the COVID-19 pandemic, ensuring that customers are 
kept up to date with travel restrictions.
Key Highlights
•
As COVID-19 will impact the travel industry to a large extent, low cost companies have the potential to 
recover better than others. The low cost offering will align with recession-hit budgets and the desire to 
travel again when it is safe to do so.
•
Technology has been important in the evolution of the low cost travel market. By making it easier to book 
travel and compare prices, technology developments suit the low cost traveler as it makes things easier for 
them to get the best deal.
•
The low cost airline industry has taken off in Europe, due to destinations being close together and the 
presence of two of the biggest low cost airlines in the world being based in Europe. Cheap fares have 
allowed travel across Europe to be much easier alongside visiting destinations with smaller airports.
Insights on the Low Cost Evolution in the Travel & Tourism 2020 Market - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Scope
•
This thematic report provides an overview of the effect of low cost evolution across tourists and travel 
providers today.
•
The key trends within this theme are identified relating to other themes such as migration and the VFR 
market, but also specific to low cost evolution.
•
Several case studies are included to analyze both the positive and negative impact of low cost evolution 
across a variety of tourism providers including airlines, hotels, hostels, travel intermediaries, transport and 
incorporating the sharing economy.
•
Our unique thematic analysis then dives deep into the development of low cost evolution, views 
surrounding this theme and what factors have contributed to its success.
•
Companies that dominate the low cost travel industry are then listed including the likes of Ryanair, 
Skyscanner and AirBnb.
Reasons to Buy
•
Understand the low cost travel industry through accessing the impacts and observing case studies 
identifying the key leaders, disruptors and those who fell behind.
•
Assess the relationship that low cost travel operators have with their customers and with competitors.
•
Discover how to develop a low cost company through an array of recommendations and assess all the 
implications that may be involved.
•
The publisher's thematic research ecosystem is a single, integrated global research platform that provides 
an easy-to-use framework for tracking all themes across all companies in all sectors. It has a proven track 
record of identifying the important themes early, enabling companies to make the right investments ahead 
of the competition, and secure that all-important competitive advantage.
Key Topics Covered:
1. Players
2. Trends
•
Macroeconomic trends
•
Low cost evolution trends in travel and tourism
•
Case studies
•
Thematic analysis
•
Hotels
•
Airlines
•
Timeline
•
Mergers and acquisitions
•
Impact of low-cost evolution on the travel and tourism industry
•
Recommendations for travel and tourism companies
3. Companies section
•
Publicly traded companies
•
Private companies
•
Glossary
Insights on the Low Cost Evolution in the Travel & Tourism 2020 Market - ResearchAndMarkets.com
4. Appendix: Our Thematic research methodology
Companies Mentioned
•
Accor
•
AirAsia
•
Airbnb
•
Booking Holdings
•
easyJet
•
Eurowings
•
Expedia
•
Greyhound Lines
•
Hilton
•
Hostelworld
•
Jack's Flight Club
•
Level
•
Lyft
•
Norwegian Air Shuttle
•
Ryanair
•
Scoot
•
Skyscanner
•
Southwest Airlines
•
Travelodge
•
Travelzoo
•
Trivago
•
Uber
•
Whitbread PLC
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/j4iy3v
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200715005437/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 15, 2020
Insights on the Low Cost Evolution in the Travel & Tourism 2020 Market - ResearchAndMarkets.com
End of Document
SDL Launches SLATE, the Intuitive Self-service, On-demand Translation Service Built for Business; Delivering 
on-demand, secure content translation directly to t....
SDL Launches SLATE, the Intuitive Self-service, On-demand Translation 
Service Built for Business; Delivering on-demand, secure content translation 
directly to the business, SLATE combines SDL's Linguistic AI(TM), 
advanced neural machine translation and expert translation services
Business Wire
June 22, 2020 Monday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 904 words
Dateline: MAIDENHEAD, England 
Body
SDL (LSE: SDL), the intelligent language and content company, announces the launch of SLATE - Smart Language 
Translation for the Enterprise - its new self-service platform that delivers a truly transformed experience in online 
translation. Professionals in any part of your business can now, with a few clicks, directly access secure, world-
class neural machine translation and optional expert human review, with transparent service levels, delivery times 
and simple pricing.
Through the intuitive, self-service online platform, SLATE provides all parts of the business with access to SDL's 
world-class and secure neural machine translation, covering dozens of languages including some of the world's 
most difficult, like Chinese, Korean and Russian. For additional peace of mind, for example, if you are publishing a 
document, SLATE enables you to upgrade the experience easily to human review or revision delivered by SDL's 
trusted network of over 17,000 expert translators - all within the same application. A monthly subscription based on 
typical document volumes means predictable spend and most content is processed instantly. You know instantly 
how much it will cost and when your content will be delivered. What is more, SLATE works with many different 
formats, from Microsoft Word documents and PDFs, to Adobe InDesign files, and even subtitles for videos.
SLATE is a best-in-class solution that will truly transform how business users translate content. To experience 
SLATE for yourself, visit us at https://www.slateai.com.
"SLATE was fast and brilliant - it was instant, professional, and the output looked exactly like the original," said 
Carolann Conway, Executive Assistant to Chief Legal & Regulatory Officer, Ryanair DAC. "No one that received the 
document had negative feedback on the quality of content. I appreciate that I can get my document professionally 
translated right away with no hidden costs, no wait time for a project quote, and no extra work for me. SLATE is 
foolproof."
Built for business users across marketing, financial, legal and other regulated and security-conscious industries, 
SLATE's key features include:
•
One-click access to document translation and support for dozens of languages
SDL Launches SLATE, the Intuitive Self-service, On-demand Translation Service Built for Business; Delivering 
on-demand, secure content translation directly to t....
•
Always on, always available
•
Automatically translates whilst preserving document formats
•
Ideal for regulated industries as it is secure by design and does not allow for content sharing or re-use 
between users or by the system.
"We are extremely excited to launch this new on-demand service designed to support professionals in departments 
and enterprises, who have pressing needs for high quality translation and want it delivered in a simple, automated 
way," said Christophe Djaouani, EVP Regulated Industries at SDL. "SLATE has simplified the process, improved 
efficiency and thereby reduced the time to market for our customers. Built for business, it has tight security that 
conforms to strict industry standards, making it highly-suited for users in regulated industries. We look forward to 
rolling this service out and supporting a segment of the market that has long been neglected."
Operating under a monthly subscription model, other benefits of SLATE are that it significantly reduces the up-front 
financial commitment for customers and eliminates the typical wait time for project quotes and invoices. SLATE 
offers three levels of service starting with 'Automatic,' backed by SDL Machine Translation, which is sufficient for 
the majority of tasks, to the human optimized stages of 'Review,' focused on accuracy, and 'Revision,' that 
combines correcting for accuracy along with stylistic improvements, resulting in professionally edited output.
Notes to Editors
Benefits of SLATE
•
Accessibility and ease of use: Subscription model, registration in minutes, gives instant access to powerful 
professional translation
•
Built for business: Minimizes duplication of work, reduces time needed to produce content across multiple 
languages, increases efficiencies and lowers costs
•
Secure: Proven, GDPR-compliant, fully secure online environment with client content never exposed, re-
used, or shared without explicit permission
•
Intelligent, learns and adapts: Specialized Linguistic AITM continues to learn, based on revisions and 
reviews, and improves and adapts to your individual requirements over time
•
Built on a foundation of innovation: Capitalizes on SDL's 20+ years of technology innovation and is backed 
by the innovative SDL Language Cloud foundation as well as award-winning SDL Machine Translation 
technology
•
Built on a foundation of expertise: Services are provided by SDL's in-house translators, trained to deliver 
professional translation services to 90 of the world's top 100 brands.
About SDL
SDL (LSE: SDL) is the intelligent language and content company. Our purpose is to enable global understanding, 
allowing organizations to communicate with their audiences worldwide, whatever the language, channel or 
touchpoint. We work with over 4,500 enterprise customers including 90 of the world's top brands and the majority of 
the largest companies in our target sectors. We help our customers overcome their content challenges of volume, 
velocity, quality, fragmentation, compliance and understanding through our unique combination of language 
services, language technologies and content technologies.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200622005059/en/
CONTACT: Media Contacts:
SDL
Denis Davies
SDL Launches SLATE, the Intuitive Self-service, On-demand Translation Service Built for Business; Delivering 
on-demand, secure content translation directly to t....
Corporate Communications
ddavies@sdl.com
+44 1628 410105
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 22, 2020
End of Document
SWOT Framework Analysis of the Impact of COVID-19 for Major Airlines (Company Impact Report) - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
SWOT Framework Analysis of the Impact of COVID-19 for Major Airlines 
(Company Impact Report) - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
April 23, 2020 Thursday 7:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 369 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Airlines: Analysis of the impact of COVID-19 for major airlines using the SWOT framework - Issue 2 (Company 
Impact Report)" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The travel & tourism sector is suffering significant disruption due to the impact of COVID-19 and few industries have 
seen as much disruption as airlines.
Key Highlights
•
The common threat to all airlines is insolvency, no matter how big or small the company is.
•
Demand for air travel has dropped markedly and this is reflected in the erratic share price performance for 
many multi-national airlines. The US government stimulus has brought about a modicum of stability but it 
remains to be seen how long this lasts.
•
A mixture of threats such as insolvency' and longer term change to travel patterns' highlights that issues 
can be created internally and externally. Mitigating the risks that can bring about these issues is now of 
paramount importance.
Scope
•
This report provides insight into what constitute strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats for 
players in the airline industry. It also provides examples of relevant companies for each SWOT element.
Reasons to Buy
•
Assess the impact COVID-19 is having on industry players
•
Look at the impact coronavirus is having on share prices
•
Understand what constitute strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats in this industry in the current 
climate
•
Look at real-world examples of company strategies
Key Topics Covered:
SWOT Framework Analysis of the Impact of COVID-19 for Major Airlines (Company Impact Report) - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Overview
•
Share Price Impact
•
SWOT Analysis
•
Company Focus - Strengths
•
Company Focus - Weaknesses
•
Company Focus - Opportunities
•
Company Focus - Threats
•
References
Companies Mentioned
•
Flybe
•
IATA
•
easyJet
•
IAG
•
Virgin Atlantic
•
United Airlines
•
Ryanair
•
Southwest
•
American Airlines
•
Emirates
•
Etihad
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/5r2ahm
About ResearchAndMarkets.com
ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. 
We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products and the latest trends.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200423005278/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 3, 2020
SWOT Framework Analysis of the Impact of COVID-19 for Major Airlines (Company Impact Report) - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
End of Document
Air France and the COVID-19 Virus, 2020 Case Study - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Air France and the COVID-19 Virus, 2020 Case Study - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
April 14, 2020 Tuesday 4:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 311 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Air France and the COVID-19 Virus: Case Study" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's 
offering.
COVID-19, commonly referred to as the Coronavirus, is dominating headlines around the world. The travel & 
tourism sector is suffering significant disruption and the airlines industry is very much impacted. Air France has not 
escaped unscathed.
This report provides insight into how COVID-19 is impacting Air France and looks at how the airline stacks up 
against key competitors.
•
Gain an overview of the current global COVID-19 situation
•
Understand the impact that COVID-19 is having on the airline industry
•
Assess the impact on Air France
•
Understand what the future may hold for France's flag carrier
Key Highlights
•
Air France is the French flag carrier and, as such, the number one airline in the country. This makes it a 
key player in terms of connectivity to the most visited country in the world (92.8 million visitors in 2019).
•
The future of Air France depends on the length of the COVID-19 crisis. The longer it lasts, the more 
significantly affected the airline will be.
•
However, it benefits from the almost unconditional support from the French government and has already 
implemented plans to safeguard its cash-flow and prepare the resumption of the activities.
•
Moreover, the carrier could capitalize on the potential collapse of a number of smaller airlines to grow its 
network after the crisis.
Key Topics Covered
•
Overview
•
Introduction to Air France
Air France and the COVID-19 Virus, 2020 Case Study - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
The COVID-19 Situation
•
Air France's Reaction to COVID-19
•
The Situation for Other Key Players
•
Looking to the Future
Companies Mentioned
•
Air France
•
KLM
•
British Airways
•
easyJet
•
Lufthansa
•
Ryanair
•
Virgin Atlantic
•
Flybe
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/tcf444
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200414005748/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 3, 2020
End of Document
Italy Tourism Source Market Insight, 2020 - Analysis of Tourist Profiles, Traveler Flows, Spending Patterns, 
Main Destination Markets, Risks & Opportunities - R....
Italy Tourism Source Market Insight, 2020 - Analysis of Tourist Profiles, 
Traveler Flows, Spending Patterns, Main Destination Markets, Risks & 
Opportunities - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
March 6, 2020 Friday 11:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 454 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Italy - Tourism Source Market Insight: Analysis of tourist profiles, traveler flows, spending patterns, main 
destination markets, risks and opportunities" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
Summary
The author's Italy - Tourism Source Market Insight report provides a thorough insight into Italy's domestic and 
outbound tourism market. The report looks at the profiles of Italian tourists and summarizes the key reasons that 
they travel. The report offers an in-depth analysis of traveler flows, spending patterns, main destination markets and 
current and future opportunities for tourism businesses seeking to tap into the Italian outbound travel market.
Key Highlights
•
Domestic trips dominated Italians' travel plans in 2018, with 63% of all trips taken domestically.
•
Domestic trips are up 2% from 2017 to 2018, with a total of 55 million domestic trips taken by Italians in 
2018.
•
International trips have also increased, 4% from 2017 to 2018, with a total of 33 million international trips in 
2018.
Scope
•
This report is part of the author's Source Market Insights Series.
•
This report provides an in-depth analysis of traveler flows, spending patterns, main destination markets, as 
well as current and future opportunities for tourism businesses seeking to tap into the Italian outbound 
travel market.
Reasons to buy
•
This report provides clear insight into developments in Italy's domestic and outbound tourism markets.
Italy Tourism Source Market Insight, 2020 - Analysis of Tourist Profiles, Traveler Flows, Spending Patterns, 
Main Destination Markets, Risks & Opportunities - R....
•
The report uses data and analysis to discuss future trends related to domestic trips, international 
departures, traveler spending, and main destination markets.
•
The report explores the different profiles of Italian tourists and the reasons that they travel, hence providing 
an insight into the trends in different segments of the market.
•
The reader gains a strong understanding of the opportunities in the country, as well as the risks, to support 
better business decisions
Key Topics Covered:
•
Overview
•
Italy snapshot
•
At a glance: The Italian Tourism market in 2018
•
Regional risk analysis
•
Main findings
•
Traveler Profiles
•
An insight into the Italian tourist
•
Domestic Tourism
•
Domestic Flows
•
Domestic Spending
•
Outbound Tourism
•
Outbound Flows
•
Outbound Spending
•
Destination markets
•
Main destination markets
•
Developing destination in focus: Malta
•
Developing destination in focus: Romania and Argentina
•
Outlook
•
Potential opportunities for Italian travelers
•
Appendix
•
References
•
Terminology and definitions
•
About the author
•
The Publisher at a Glance
Companies Mentioned
•
Alitalia
•
Air Malta
•
Ryanair
•
Airbnb
Italy Tourism Source Market Insight, 2020 - Analysis of Tourist Profiles, Traveler Flows, Spending Patterns, 
Main Destination Markets, Risks & Opportunities - R....
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/t39xar
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200306005180/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 3, 2020
End of Document
Corporacin Amrica Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in January 2020; Passenger traffic down 
4.4% in Argentina and 5.5% in Uruguay, partially of....
Corporacin Amrica Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in 
January 2020; Passenger traffic down 4.4% in Argentina and 5.5% in 
Uruguay, partially offset by growth in Ecuador, Armenia and Italy
Business Wire
February 17, 2020 Monday 10:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1172 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
Corporacin Amrica Airports S.A. (NYSE: CAAP), ("CAAP" or the "Company") the largest private sector airport 
operator in the world by number of airports, reported today preliminary unchanged year-over-year passenger traffic 
in January 2020.
•
Preliminary data on 750 flights in August, 873 flights in September, 547 in October, 423 in November, 280 
in December 2019 and 1,256 in January 2020 at Brasilia Airport, due to delays in the submission of 
information by third parties. Moreover, starting November 2019 the Company has reclassified its 
passenger traffic figures for Brasilia Airport between international, domestic and transit retroactively since 
June 2018 to return to the count methodology utilized until May 2018. Notwithstanding, total traffic figures 
remain unchanged.
Passenger Traffic Overview
Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements Highlights
Statistics
Jan'20(1)
Jan'19(1)
% 
Var.
Domestic Passengers (thousands)
4,109
4,006
2.6%
International Passengers (thousands)
2,229
2,339
-4.7%
Transit Passengers (thousands)
831
850
-2.3%
Total Passengers (thousands)
7,169
7,195
-0.4%
Cargo Volume (thousand tons)
30.6
32.8
-6.7%
Total Aircraft Movements (thousands)
71.7
74.7
-4.0%
Total passenger traffic in January 2020 remained relatively flat YoY, primarily reflecting declines of 4.4% in 
Argentina and 5.5% in Uruguay, partially offset by growth of 9.1% in Ecuador, 10.7% in Armenia and 4.3% in Italy, 
while traffic in Brazil remained unchanged.
In Argentina, total passenger traffic decreased 4.4% YoY, driven by a 13.1% decline in international passenger 
traffic, reflecting more difficult macro conditions in the country. This mainly reflects lower traffic to Brazil and other 
neighboring countries together with the reduction in routes and frequencies made by the airlines in recent months. 
Corporacin Amrica Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in January 2020; Passenger traffic down 
4.4% in Argentina and 5.5% in Uruguay, partially of....
Domestic passenger traffic remained flat compared with a particularly strong month in the year ago period, in 
addition to weak economic conditions this quarter. Furthermore, the Minister of Transport announced that starting 
May 2020, international air traffic to neighboring countries Brazil, Chile, Bolivia and Paraguay will be gradually 
reinstated at Aeroparque Airport.
In Italy, passenger traffic growth slowed to 4.3% YoY, driven by an increase of 7.5% at Florence airport reflecting 
Vueling's four new routes opened last September and additional frequencies in its existing routes, which more than 
offset a high number of re-routed or cancelled flights due to adverse weather conditions. Passenger traffic at Pisa 
Airport increased 2.4% YoY, reflecting growth in aircraft movements and new flights to Brussels, Bucharest and 
Dublin by Ryanair and, to a lesser extent, the good performance of Air Arabia's flights to Casablanca, Morocco. 
Furthermore, Albawings inaugurated a new route to Tirana, Albania.
In Brazil, estimated figures are disclosed given delays in the submission of information for 1,256 flights out of a total 
of 14,247 flights, due to information systems transition. Total passenger traffic remained relatively flat YoY reflecting 
the full recovery of the air network previously operated by Avianca Brasil. Domestic passenger traffic grew 2.7% 
YoY, while international passenger traffic increased 12.6% YoY. In addition, Latam Airlines added frequencies to 
the Northeast and Southeast during the summer season while Gol continues to add routes and frequencies in line 
with expansion plan with domestic and international flights at Brasilia Airport.
In Uruguay, passenger traffic declined 5.5% YoY, due to a 29.4% contraction on passenger traffic at Punta del Este 
Airport reflecting a reduction of Argentine passengers given difficult macro conditions, and to lesser extent, the 
cancellation of Avianca Airlines route to Lima, Per, from Carrasco Airport. This was partially offset by the two 
additional frequencies to Madrid, Spain, opened by Iberia in July 2019.
In Armenia, total passenger traffic increased 10.7% YoY, benefiting from the addition of several routes and 
frequencies during 2019 and higher connectivity to Moscow, Russia, coupled with the good performance of Azimuth 
Airlines' flights to Russian destinations Rostov and Sochi. Aircompany Armenia's flights to regional destinations, as 
well as Tarom Avia's route to Bucharest, Romania also contributed to traffic growth. Moreover, in January low-cost 
carrier Ryanair started operating from Zvartnots Airport, opening two-weekly flights to Rome and Milan, in Italy.
In Ecuador, total passenger traffic increased 9.1% YoY, driven by a 19.0% increase in international traffic, mainly 
reflecting the continued good performance of Jet Blue's routes to Fort Lauderdale and New York, USA, American 
Airlines' daily route to Dallas, USA, and Interjet's daily routes to both Cancn and Ciudad de Mxico, Mxico. Growth 
was further supported by Iberia's route to Madrid, Spain, opened in December, which more than offset the 
cancelation of Latam's route to the same destination.
Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Cargo volume declined 6.7% in January 2020, mainly as a result of declines of 23.7% in Brazil, 19.4% in Ecuador 
and 2.4% in Argentina, partially offset by a 19.7% increase in Armenia, 7.0% in Uruguay and 8.9% in Italy.
Aircraft movements declined 4.0% YoY in January 2020, driven by declines of 8.4% in Argentina, 2.9% in Brazil and 
10.3% in Uruguay, partially offset by an increase of 4.8% in Ecuador, 14.9% in Armenia and 3.7% in Italy.
Summary Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Jan'20(1)
Jan'19
% Var.
Passenger Traffic (thousands)
Argentina
3,642
3,808
-4.4%
Italy
480
460
4.3%
Brazil(1)
1,876
1,866
0.5%
Uruguay
233
247
-5.5%
Ecuador
385
353
9.1%
Armenia
235
212
10.7%
Peru
318
249
28.0%
Corporacin Amrica Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in January 2020; Passenger traffic down 
4.4% in Argentina and 5.5% in Uruguay, partially of....
TOTAL
7,169
7,195
-0.4%
(1) Preliminary data on 750 flights in August, 873 flights in September, 547 in October, 423 in November, 280 in 
December 2019 and 1,256 in January 2020 at Brasilia Airport, due to delays in the submission of information by 
third parties.
Cargo Volume (tons)
Argentina
18,386
18,845
-2.4%
Italy
1,119
1,027
8.9%
Brazil
4,612
6,042
-23.7%
Uruguay
2,043
1,909
7.0%
Ecuador
3,008
3,733
-19.4%
Armenia
1,028
859
19.7%
Peru
406
370
9.9%
TOTAL
30,602
32,784
-6.7%
Aircraft Movements
Argentina
36,756
40,140
-8.4%
Italy
4,818
4,644
3.7%
Brazil
14,247
14,670
-2.9%
Uruguay
3,535
3,941
-10.3%
Ecuador
7,495
7,154
4.8%
Armenia
2,238
1,948
14.9%
Peru
2,591
2,164
19.7%
TOTAL
71,680
74,661
-4.0%
To 
obtain 
the 
full 
text 
of 
this 
press 
release, 
please 
click 
on 
the 
following 
link: 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com
About Corporacin Amrica Airports
Corporacin Amrica Airports acquires, develops and operates airport concessions. Currently, the Company operates 
52 airports in 7 countries across Latin America and Europe (Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador, Armenia 
and Italy). In 2019, Corporacin Amrica Airports served 83.5 million passengers. The Company is listed on the New 
York 
Stock 
Exchange 
where 
it 
trades 
under 
the 
ticker 
"CAAP". 
For 
more 
information, 
visit 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200217005491/en/
CONTACT: Investor Relations Contact
Gimena Albanesi
Email: gimena.albanesi@caairports.com
Phone: +5411 4852-6411
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 17, 2020
End of Document
Europcar Mobility Group Chosen as 'lead Partner' by Rentalcars.com for Ryanair Platform
Europcar Mobility Group Chosen as 'lead Partner' by Rentalcars.com for 
Ryanair Platform
Business Wire
February 3, 2020 Monday 5:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 781 words
Dateline: PARIS 
Body
Regulatory News:
Following the recent appointment of Rentalcars.com as the exclusive online car rental provider to Ryanair for the 
next three years, Europcar Mobility Group (Paris:EUCAR) has been confirmed as its 'lead partner'.
This unique partnership will see Europcar's car rental services, provided by Rentalcars.com, promoted exclusively 
through offline channels, such as in-flight announcements and boarding cards, offering exclusive discounts to 
Ryanair customers.
Mark Slater, Director of Global Supply at Rentalcars.com said: "Europcar Mobility Group was selected as the lead 
partner for our Ryanair branded service because it demonstrates the same ideals of providing hassle-free, great 
value customer service to our mutual customers.
With brands including Europcar, GoldCar and InterRent; Europcar Mobility Group is one of the largest and most 
respected car rental provider in Europe & beyond. As such it will be able to provide consistent and competitive rates 
to all of Ryanair's European destinations."
Nick Harwood, Group Sales Director at Europcar Mobility Group added: "It's heartening to see that the hard work 
and commitment we put into continually strengthening our network of mobility solutions has been recognised by 
Rentalcars.com. Through this new three-year partnership, we look forward to providing Ryanair customers with 
fantastic value, seamless, car rental via exclusive offers."
Ends
Notes to editors
About Europcar Mobility Group
Europcar Mobility Group is a major player in mobility markets and listed on Euronext Paris. The mission of Europcar 
Mobility Group is to be the preferred "Mobility Service Company" by offering alternative attractive solutions to 
vehicle ownership, with a wide range of mobility-related services: vehicle-rental, chauffeur services, car-sharing and 
scooter-sharing. Customers' satisfaction is at the heart of the Group's mission and all of its employees and this 
commitment fuels the continuous development of new services. Europcar Mobility Group operates through multi 
Europcar Mobility Group Chosen as 'lead Partner' by Rentalcars.com for Ryanair Platform
brands meeting every customer specific needs; its 4 major brands being: Europcar® - the European leader in 
vehicle rental services, Goldcar® - the most important low-cost car-rental company in Europe, InterRent® - 'mid-tier' 
brand focused on leisure and Ubeeqo® - one of the European leaders in car-sharing (BtoB, BtoC). Europcar 
Mobility Group delivers its mobility solutions worldwide solutions through an extensive network in 140 countries 
(including 20 wholly owned subsidiaries in Europe, 2 in Australia and New Zealand, franchises and partners).
Further details available at:
www.europcar-mobility-group.com
About Rentalcars.com:
•
Arranges car rental in 60,000 locations, across 160 countries and in over 40 languages
•
Processes 8 million bookings per year - the world's leading online car rental service
•
Uses 3.5 million customer ratings to guide bookings, and only works with car rental companies that achieve 
a consistently good standard of customer feedback
•
Compares 6 million prices every day to guarantee the best possible rates, and offers a price match 
guarantee
•
Works with supply partners to offer great prices on all car groups, including luxury cars, people carriers, 
minivans and automatic cars, as well as offering more choice on pick up locations
•
Operates a multilingual call centre open 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year
•
Provides independent guidance and support throughout the rental process
•
Available to book online, on mobile and via the Rentalcars.com app
Rentalcars.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc [NASDAQ: BKNG], the world leader in online travel, which serves 
consumers and partners through six primary brands - Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, 
Rentalcars.com and OpenTable. For more information, visit www.bookingholdings.com .
About Ryanair Holdings:
Ryanair Holdings plc, Europe's largest airline group, is the parent company of Buzz, Lauda, Malta Air & Ryanair 
DAC. Carrying over 154 m guests p.a. on more than 2,400 daily flights from 82 bases, the group connects over 200 
destinations in 40 countries on a fleet of over 475 aircraft, with a further 210 Boeing 737's on order, which will 
enable the Ryanair Group to lower fares and grow traffic to 200m p.a. by FY24. Ryanair has a team of over 19,000 
highly skilled aviation professionals delivering Europe's No.1 on-time performance, and an industry leading 34-year 
safety record. Ryanair is Europe's greenest cleanest airline group and customers switching to fly Ryanair can 
reduce their CO? emissions by up to 50% compared to the other Big 4 EU major airlines.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200203005631/en/
CONTACT: Europcar Mobility GroupValérie Sauteret, valerie.sauteret@europcar.com
Vincent Vevaud,            vincent.vevaud@europcar.com Publicis ConsultantsCamille Madec,            
camille.madec@publicisconsultants.com , +33 7 86 42 95 15
Marie Quinette,            marie.quinette@publicisconsultants.com , +33 6 37 19 70 04
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 3, 2020
End of Document
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 2.1% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in December 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 3.0% in Argentina, 8.8% in Italy....
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 2.1% YoY Increase in Total 
Passenger Traffic in December 2019; Passenger traffic up 3.0% in Argentina, 
8.8% in Italy and 6.1% in Armenia, partially offset by declines in Brazil and 
Uruguay
Business Wire
January 15, 2020 Wednesday 12:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1171 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
Corporación América Airports S.A. (NYSE: CAAP), ("CAAP" or the "Company") the largest private sector airport 
operator in the world by number of airports, reported today preliminary year-over-year passenger traffic growth of 
2.1% in December 2019.
Passenger Traffic Overview
Passe
nger 
Traffic
, 
Cargo 
Volu
me 
and 
Aircra
ft 
Move
ments 
Highli
ghts
Statistics
D
e
c
'
1
9
(
1
)
D
e
c
'
1
8
%
 
V
a
r
.
Y
T
D
'
1
9
(
1
)
Y
T
D
'
1
8
(
1
)
%
 
V
a
r
.
Domestic Passengers (thousands)
4
3
4
4
4
6
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 2.1% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in December 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 3.0% in Argentina, 8.8% in Italy....
,
0
8
8
,
9
2
3
.
2
%
7
,
5
1
5
4
,
7
9
8
.
1
%
International Passengers (thousands)
2
,
1
4
5
2
,
1
2
3
1
.
0
%
2
7
,
6
2
4
2
7
,
4
8
4
0
.
5
%
Transit Passengers (thousands)
7
2
9
7
7
4
-
5
.
8
%
8
,
3
5
3
9
,
0
1
9
-
7
.
4
%
Total Passengers (thousands)
6
,
9
6
2
6
,
8
1
9
2
.
1
%
8
3
,
4
9
2
8
1
,
3
0
1
2
.
7
%
Cargo Volume (thousand tons)
3
6
.
1
3
8
.
1
-
5
.
4
%
4
2
2
.
1
4
1
0
.
1
2
.
9
%
Total Aircraft Movements (thousands)
7
1
.
5
7
4
.
1
-
3
.
5
%
8
5
7
.
9
8
8
0
.
6
-
2
.
6
%
(1)
Preliminary data on 750 flights in August, 873 flights in September, 
547 in October, 423 in November, and 280 in December at Brasilia 
Airport, due to delays in the submission of information by third 
parties. Moreover, the Company has reclassified its passenger traffic 
figures for Brasilia Airport between international, domestic and transit 
retroactively since June 2018 to return to the count methodology 
utilized until May 2018. Notwithstanding, total traffic figures remain 
unchanged.
Total passenger traffic in December 2019 grew by 2.1% YoY, primarily reflecting increases of 3.0% in Argentina, 
8.8% in Italy, 7.5% in Ecuador and 6.1% in Armenia, partially offset by declines in Brazil and Uruguay.
In Argentina, total passenger traffic increased 3.0% YoY, driven by 6.4% growth in domestic passengers mainly due 
to new routes introduced during 2018 and 2019, together with a mix-shift to domestic from international travel by 
local passengers. International passenger traffic declined 4.4%, still reflecting weak macro conditions in the country. 
Additionally, Aerolineas Argentinas started a new route to Orlando, USA, and low-cost carrier Flybondi added a new 
route from El Palomar to Florianopolis, Brazil.
In Italy, passenger traffic increased 8.8% YoY, driven mainly by 19.5% growth at Florence Airport which reported a 
22.1% increase in international traffic as a result of Vueling's four new routes opened in September and additional 
frequencies in its existing routes. Moreover, passenger traffic at Pisa Airport increased 3.5% YoY, reflecting 
additional flights by Ryanair, and, to a lesser extent, the good performance of Air Arabia's flights to Casablanca, 
Morocco.
In Brazil, estimated figures are disclosed given delays in the submission of information for 280 flights out of a total 
of 14,541 flights, due to information systems transition by third parties. Total passenger traffic declined 4.7% YoY, 
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 2.1% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in December 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 3.0% in Argentina, 8.8% in Italy....
still reflecting the cessation of operations by Avianca Brasil, partially offset by traffic growth driven by other airlines. 
Domestic passenger traffic declined 2.6% YoY, while international passenger traffic increased 2.8% YoY. In 
addition, Latam Airlines started a new daily route to Asunción, Paraguay from Brasilia Airport, while Azul Airlines 
added new frequencies to Recife and Campinas, operated from Natal Airport.
In Armenia, total passenger traffic increased 6.1%, benefiting from the addition of several routes and frequencies 
during 2018 and 2019 and higher connectivity to Moscow, Russia, coupled with the good performance of Azimuth 
Airlines' flights to Russian destinations Krasnodar and Rostov, Aircompany Armenia's flights to regional 
destinations, as well as SkyUp Airlines' route to Kiev, Ukraine.
In Uruguay, passenger traffic declined 2.3% YoY, mainly reflecting the temporary cancellation of Avianca 
Colombia's daily route to Bogotá, Colombia, that was restored by the end of December. Traffic also reflects the 
cancellation of Sky's route to Santiago de Chile since April 2019, which was temporarily reinstated by the end of 
December 2019 to operate during the summer season. This was partially offset by the two additional frequencies to 
Madrid, Spain, opened by Iberia in July 2019 and additional flights from Ezeiza Airport, in Argentina.
In Ecuador, total passenger traffic increased 7.5% YoY, driven by a 16.1% increase in international traffic, mainly 
reflecting the continued good performance of the route to Fort Lauderdale by JetBlue and Interjet's daily routes to 
both Cancún and Ciudad de México, México, together with Iberia's new route to Madrid, Spain, opened in 
December with four weekly frequencies. In addition, during the month, JetBlue opened a new daily route to New 
York, USA, and American Airlines inaugurated a new route to Dallas, with daily frequencies. This more than offset 
the cancelation in December of Latam's route to Madrid, Spain.
Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Cargo volume declined 5.4% in December 2019, mainly as a result of declines of 15.5% in Argentina and 25.2% in 
Ecuador, partially offset by a 28.3% increase in Brazil.
Aircraft movements declined 3.5% YoY in December 2019, driven by declines of 6.1% in Argentina and 6.7% in 
Brazil, partially offset by an increase of 8.8% in Italy.
Summary Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
D
e
c
'
1
9
(
1
)
D
e
c
'
1
8
%
 
V
a
r
.
Y
T
D
'
1
9
(
1
)
Y
T
D
'
1
8
%
 
V
a
r
.
Passenger Traffic (thousands)
Argentina
3
,
5
6
0
3
,
4
5
7
3
.
0
%
4
2
,
7
3
9
3
9
,
8
1
8
7
.
3
%
Italy
5
1
7
4
7
5
8
.
8
%
8
,
2
3
9
8
,
1
6
0
1
.
0
%
Brazil
1
,
7
6
1
,
8
4
-
4
.
7
1
9
,
0
2
0
,
3
-
6
.
2
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 2.1% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in December 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 3.0% in Argentina, 8.8% in Italy....
1 8 %
5
9
1
8
%
Uruguay
1
9
0
1
9
4
-
2
.
3
%
2
,
1
8
2
2
,
2
9
3
-
4
.
8
%
Ecuador
3
8
0
3
5
4
7
.
5
%
4
,
4
9
7
4
,
4
1
0
2
.
0
%
Armenia
2
3
8
2
2
4
6
.
1
%
3
,
1
9
6
2
,
8
5
7
1
1
.
9
%
Peru
3
1
6
2
6
8
1
7
.
9
%
3
,
5
7
9
3
,
4
4
5
3
.
9
%
TOTAL
6
,
9
6
2
6
,
8
1
9
2
.
1
%
8
3
,
4
9
2
8
1
,
3
0
1
2
.
7
%
(1) Preliminary data on 750 flights in August, 873 flights in September, 547 
in October, 423 in November, and 280 in December at Brasilia Airport, due 
to delays in the submission of information by third parties.
Cargo Volume (tons)
Argentina
1
9
,
0
1
1
2
2
,
4
8
6
-
1
5
.
5
%
2
2
7
,
9
7
0
2
4
0
,
3
7
2
-
5
.
2
%
Italy
1
,
1
5
8
1
,
0
8
6
6
.
5
%
1
3
,
1
9
2
1
1
,
7
6
0
1
2
.
2
%
Brazil
8
,
1
8
0
6
,
3
7
6
2
8
.
3
%
9
1
,
2
4
1
6
5
,
9
1
5
3
8
.
4
%
Uruguay
2
,
2
7
1
2
,
2
2
8
1
.
9
%
2
6
,
4
3
8
2
7
,
5
3
4
-
4
.
0
%
Ecuador
3
,
4
,
-
2
3
8
4
1
-
9
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 2.1% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in December 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 3.0% in Argentina, 8.8% in Italy....
0
4
3
0
6
7
5
.
2
%
,
0
0
6
,
7
7
5
.
0
%
Armenia
1
,
9
0
6
1
,
4
6
1
3
0
.
5
%
2
0
,
0
6
5
1
7
,
8
5
6
1
2
.
4
%
Peru
5
0
9
4
3
4
1
7
.
3
%
5
,
1
6
4
4
,
8
6
6
6
.
1
%
TOTAL
3
6
,
0
7
8
3
8
,
1
3
9
-
5
.
4
%
4
2
2
,
0
7
5
4
1
0
,
0
7
8
2
.
9
%
Aircraft Movements
Argentina
3
6
,
8
7
5
3
9
,
2
9
0
-
6
.
1
%
4
4
7
,
2
4
7
4
5
0
,
2
4
4
-
0
.
7
%
Italy
5
,
0
1
6
4
,
6
1
0
8
.
8
%
7
8
,
9
5
2
7
7
,
3
3
5
2
.
1
%
Brazil
1
4
,
5
4
1
1
5
,
5
8
3
-
6
.
7
%
1
6
1
,
7
7
5
1
8
4
,
1
9
0
-
1
2
.
2
%
Uruguay
3
,
1
3
6
3
,
2
2
9
-
2
.
9
%
2
9
,
6
6
2
3
3
,
4
7
3
-
1
1
.
4
%
Ecuador
7
,
1
0
1
6
,
9
3
4
2
.
4
%
8
2
,
3
7
4
7
9
,
5
7
5
3
.
5
%
Armenia
2
,
2
4
2
,
0
9
7
.
3
%
2
7
,
4
2
4
,
1
1
3
.
6
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 2.1% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in December 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 3.0% in Argentina, 8.8% in Italy....
4 2
3
0
3
6
%
Peru
2
,
5
7
2
2
,
3
3
5
1
0
.
1
%
3
0
,
4
7
3
3
1
,
6
2
6
-
3
.
6
%
TOTAL
7
1
,
4
8
5
7
4
,
0
7
3
-
3
.
5
%
8
5
7
,
9
1
3
8
8
0
,
5
7
9
-
2
.
6
%
To 
obtain 
the 
full 
text 
of 
this 
press 
release, 
please 
click 
on 
the 
following 
link: 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com
About Corporación América Airports
Corporación América Airports acquires, develops and operates airport concessions. Currently, the Company 
operates 52 airports in 7 countries across Latin America and Europe (Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador, 
Armenia and Italy). In 2019, Corporación América Airports served 83.5 million passengers. The Company is listed 
on the New York Stock Exchange where it trades under the ticker "CAAP". For more information, visit 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200115005916/en/
CONTACT: Investor Relations
Gimena Albanesi
Email: gimena.albanesi@caairports.com
Phone: +5411 4852-6411
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 16, 2020
End of Document
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 3.7% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in November 2019
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 3.7% YoY Increase in Total 
Passenger Traffic in November 2019
Business Wire
December 16, 2019 Monday 2:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1215 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
Passenger traffic increased 6.2% in Argentina, 6.7% in Italy and 9.4% in Armenia, partially offset by declines in 
Brazil and UruguayCorporación América Airports S.A. (NYSE: CAAP), ("CAAP" or the "Company") the largest 
private sector airport operator in the world by number of airports, reported today preliminary year-over-year 
passenger traffic growth of 3.7% in November 2019.
Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements Highlights
Statistics
Nov'1
9(1)
Nov'18
% Var.
YTD'1
9(1)
YTD'1
8(1)
% Var.
Domestic Passengers (thousands)
3,999
3,752
6.6%
43,42
7
40,87
5
6.2%
International Passengers (thousands)
2,010
1,966
2.2%
25,47
9
25,36
1
0.5%
Transit Passengers (thousands)
709
757
-6.4%
7,624
8,245
-7.5%
Total Passengers (thousands)
6,718
6,476
3.7%
76,53
0
74,48
2
2.8%
Cargo Volume (thousand tons)
39.3
39.4
-0.2%
386.0
371.9
3.8%
Total Aircraft Movements (thousands)
68.5
70.0
-2.1%
786.4
806.5
-2.5%
(1)
Preliminary data on 750 flights in August, 873 flights in September, 547 in October and 423 in November at 
Brasilia Airport, due to delays in the submission of information by third parties. Moreover, the Company has 
reclassified its passenger traffic figures for Brasilia Airport between international, domestic and transit 
retroactively since June 2018 to return to the count methodology utilized until May 2018. Notwithstanding, 
total traffic figures remain unchanged.
Passenger Traffic Overview
Total passenger traffic in November 2019 grew by 3.7% YoY, primarily reflecting increases of 6.2% in Argentina, 
6.7% in Italy, 9.4% in Armenia, and 4.1% in Ecuador, partially offset by declines in Brazil and Uruguay.
In Argentina, total passenger traffic increased 6.2% YoY, reflecting growth of 9.2% in domestic passengers as a 
result of the new routes introduced during 2018 and 2019, together with a mix-shift to domestic from international 
travel by local passengers. International passenger traffic declined 0.9%, reflecting weak macro conditions in the 
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 3.7% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in November 2019
country. In addition, Jet Smart started a new route between El Palomar and Ushuaia airports. Moreover, Latam 
Airlines added a new weekly route to Mount Pleasant, Islas Malvinas, from Sao Paulo, Brazil, via Córdoba Airport.
In Italy, passenger traffic increased 6.7% YoY, driven by growth of 11.9% at Florence Airport, due to an increase of 
14.4% in international traffic reflecting the four new routes opened in September by Vueling and additional 
frequencies in existing routes. Additionally, passenger traffic at Pisa Airport increased 3.5% YoY, driven by 
additional flights by Ryanair, and, to a lesser extent, new flights by Ernest Airlines. In addition, Air Arabia started a 
new route to Casablanca, Morocco, operating from Pisa Airport.
In Brazil, estimated figures are disclosed given delays in the submission of information for 423 flights out of a total 
of 13,898 flights, due to information systems transition by third parties. The Company has reclassified its passenger 
traffic figures for Brasilia Airport between international, domestic and transit retroactively since June 2018 to return 
to the count methodology utilized until May 2018. Total traffic figures, however, remain unchanged. Passenger 
traffic declined 2.3% YoY, still reflecting the cessation of operations by Avianca Brasil, partially offset by traffic 
growth driven by other airlines. Domestic passengers increased 1.9% YoY, signaling a continued slight recovery 
from the downward trend earlier in the year, while international passenger traffic increased 3.5% YoY. In addition, 
during November both Gol and Latam airlines increased domestic frequencies, in an effort to restore capacity at 
Brasilia Airport. Moreover, Latam Airlines started a new international route to Lima, Perú, operated from Brasilia 
Airport, with three weekly flights.
In Armenia, total passenger traffic increased 9.4%, benefiting from the addition of several routes and frequencies 
during 2018 and 2019 and increased connectivity to Moscow, Russia coupled with the good performance of 
Azimuth Airlines' flights to Russian destinations Krasnodar and Rostov and Aircompany Armenia's flights to regional 
destinations.
In Uruguay, passenger traffic declined 11.0% YoY, mainly reflecting the temporary cancellation of Avianca 
Colombia's daily route to Bogotá, Colombia, anticipated to be restored in December. Traffic also reflects a decline 
in flights to Aeroparque, Argentina, given the continued weak macro environment in that country and flight 
cancellations to Chile given the continued social unrest in the country. This was partially offset by the two additional 
frequencies to Madrid, Spain, opened by Iberia in July 2019.
In Ecuador, total passenger traffic increased 4.1% YoY, driven by a 12.9% increase in international traffic, mainly 
reflecting the continued good performance of the route to Fort Lauderdale by JetBlue together with Interjet's daily 
routes to both Cancún and Ciudad de México, México, opened in October.
Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Cargo volume remained relatively flat in November 2019 mainly as a result of declines of 4.1% in Argentina and 
23.7% in Ecuador, partially offset by increases of 19.2% in Brazil and 39.7% in Armenia.
Aircraft movements declined 2.1% YoY in November 2019, driven by declines of 6.9% in Brazil and 2.4% in 
Argentina, partially offset by increases of 5.2% in Italy and 13.6% in Armenia.
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 3.7% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in November 2019
Summary Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
N
o
v'
1
9
(
1
)
Nov'18
% Var.
Y
T
D
'
1
9
Y
T
D
'
1
8 % Var
Passenger Traffic (thousands)
Argentina
3
,
4
4
1
3,239
6.2%
3
9
,
1
7
9
3
6
,
3
6
2 7.7%
Italy
5
1
8
486
6.7%
7
,
7
2
2
7
,
6
8
5 0.5%
Brazil
1
,
6
7
6
1,716
-2.3%
1
7
,
2
9
8
1
8
,
4
7
1 -6.4%
Uruguay
1
6
2
182
-11.0%
1
,
9
9
3
2
,
0
9
9 -5.1%
Ecuador
3
7
3
359
4.1%
4
,
1
1
7
4
,
0
5
6 1.5%
Armenia
2
3
6
216
9.4%
2
,
9
5
8
2
,
6
3
2 12.4%
Peru
3
1
280
11.5%
3
,
3
,
2.7%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 3.7% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in November 2019
2
2
6
3
1
7
7
TOTAL
6
,
7
1
8
6,476
3.7%
7
6
,
5
3
0
7
4
,
4
8
2 2.8%
(1) Preliminary data on 750 flights in August, 873 flights in September, 547 in October and 423 in November at Brasilia Airport, due to 
delays in the submission of information by third parties.
Cargo Volume (tons)
Argentina
2
2
,
3
7
0
23,315
-4.1%
2
0
8
,
9
5
8
2
1
7
,
8
8
5 -4.1%
Italy
1
,
2
1
2
1,132
7.0%
1
2
,
0
3
5
1
0
,
6
7
4 12.8%
Brazil
7
,
5
5
9
6,343
19.2%
8
3
,
0
6
1
5
9
,
5
3
9 39.5%
Uruguay
2
,
6
8
8
2,845
-5.5%
2
4
,
1
6
7
2
5
,
3
0
6 -4.5%
Ecuador
2
,
8
9
6
3,793
-23.7%
3
4
,
9
6
3
3
7
,
7
0
8 -7.3%
Armenia
2
1,552
39.7%
1 1 10.8%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 3.7% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in November 2019
,
1
6
8
8
,
1
5
9
6
,
3
9
5
Peru
4
3
8
414
5.9%
4
,
6
5
5
4
,
4
3
3 5.0%
TOTAL
3
9
,
3
3
1
39,394
-0.2%
3
8
5
,
9
9
8
3
7
1
,
9
3
9 3.8%
Aircraft Movements
Argentina
3
5
,
7
2
6
36,594
-2.4%
4
1
0
,
3
7
2
4
1
0
,
9
5
4 -0.1%
Italy
5
,
1
0
7
4,855
5.2%
7
3
,
9
3
6
7
2
,
7
2
5 1.7%
Brazil
1
3
,
8
9
8
14,921
-6.9%
1
4
7
,
2
3
4
1
6
8
,
6
0
7 -12.7%
Uruguay
2
,
3
1
8
2,487
-6.8%
2
6
,
5
2
6
3
0
,
2
4
4 -12.3%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 3.7% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in November 2019
Ecuador
6
,
8
6
6
6,796
1.0%
7
5
,
2
7
3
7
2
,
6
4
1 3.6%
Armenia
2
,
1
6
4
1,905
13.6%
2
5
,
1
8
6
2
2
,
0
4
4 14.3%
Peru
2
,
4
5
0
2,444
0.2%
2
7
,
9
0
1
2
9
,
2
9
1 -4.7%
TOTAL
6
8
,
5
2
9
70,002
-2.1%
7
8
6
,
4
2
8
8
0
6
,
5
0
6 -2.5%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports a 3.7% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in November 2019
To 
obtain 
the 
full 
text 
of 
this 
press 
release, 
please 
click 
on 
the 
following 
link: 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com
About Corporación América Airports
Corporación América Airports acquires, develops and operates airport concessions. Currently, the Company 
operates 52 airports in 7 countries across Latin America and Europe (Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador, 
Armenia and Italy). In 2018, Corporación América Airports served 81.3 million passengers. The Company is listed 
on the New York Stock Exchange where it trades under the ticker "CAAP". For more information, visit 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191216005856/en/
CONTACT: Investor Relations Contact
Gimena Albanesi
Email: gimena.albanesi@caairports.com
Phone: +5411 4852-6411
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 17, 2019
End of Document
European Aerospace & Defense Industry Report 2019 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
European Aerospace & Defense Industry Report 2019 - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
December 10, 2019 Tuesday 4:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 613 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "The European Aerospace & Defense Industry 2019" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's 
offering.
This report on the European Aerospace and Defense Industry 2019 is a comprehensive and elaborate assessment 
of this industry and its achievements.
The European commercial aerospace sector has been growing rapidly on the back of higher aircraft deliveries in 
recent years. The revenues for the European defense sector increased by 2.6 percent, which was a negligible 
growth since 2016. With Europe facing growing pressure from the US government on NATO countries increasing 
military expenditure, this has been one of the key driving factors behind the European defense sector.
The report begins with a comprehensive analysis of the aerospace and defense industry across Europe. We include 
a market overview, industry value analysis, market segment analysis, an analysis of market share and the 
performance of major market leaders, industry growth is looked at along with industry partnerships.
Issues and challenges facing the industry as well as industry trends are also analyzed in this report.
Market statistics are analyzed for the following sectors: aeronautical, space, defense, and maintenance. We also 
look at import/export figures and research and development ongoing in the industry. A comparison of the European 
aerospace industry to the global industry is also included.
Aerospace and defense markets in Europe are analyzed through market statistics, market structure, market value 
analysis, market share, competition in the industry, industry challenges, research and development, defense 
spending, industry forecast, etc. Other parameters are also included, varying from market to market.
Over 25 major companies active in the European aerospace and defense industry are analyzed through a corporate 
overview, an analysis of their business segments, a financial analysis, and a SWOT analysis.
Scope of the Report
How New EU Members Are Helping the Industry Grow
•
Development of New Links
European Aerospace & Defense Industry Report 2019 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Increased Investments in the Industry
•
Importance of Poland & the Czech Republic
•
Importance of Further EU Expansion
•
Space Industry in the Spotlight
•
Evolving Air Traffic Management Systems
•
Industry Trends
Issues & Challenges
•
Changes in UK & EU Export Control Policies
•
Decreasing Performance in Relative Efficiency
•
Problems with Europe's Space Industry
•
Problems in Defense Sector
•
Bribery, Corruption & Transparency
•
Supply Chain Management
•
Controversial Weapons and Trade
•
Product Quality and Safety
•
Labor Relations
•
Fragmented Defense Industry & Decreasing Defense Budgets
Companies Mentioned
•
AAR Corporation
•
Aeroflot
•
Airbus
•
Arianespace
•
Babcock International Group Plc
•
BAE Systems Plc
•
BBA Aviation Plc
•
Bombardier Incorporated
•
Daimler AG
•
Dassault Aviation SA
•
Esterline Technologies Corporation
•
General Electric Company
•
Honeywell International Inc.
•
Leonardo Finmeccanica SpA
•
Loral Space & Communications Inc
•
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
•
MTU Aero Engines Holdings AG
•
Northrop Grumman Corporation
European Aerospace & Defense Industry Report 2019 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Precision Castparts Corporation
•
QinetiQ Group Plc
•
Raytheon Company
•
Rockwell Collins
•
Rolls Royce Holdings Plc
•
Ryanair Holdings Plc
•
Saab AB
•
Safran SA
•
Smiths Group Plc
•
Thales SA
•
The Boeing Company
•
Virgin Express Holdings Plc
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/57rvou
About ResearchAndMarkets.com
ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. 
We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products and the latest trends.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191210005813/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 11, 2019
End of Document
2019 Case Study on Thomas Cook - Analysis of the Travel Group's Downfall - ResearchAndMarkets.com
2019 Case Study on Thomas Cook - Analysis of the Travel Group's Downfall 
- ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
November 19, 2019 Tuesday 6:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 348 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Case Study: Thomas Cook - Analysis of the travel group's downfall" report has been added to 
ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
Established 178 years ago, Thomas Cook was the oldest travel group in the United Kingdom but a number of 
different factors led to the company's demise. The downfall of this much-loved brand will have far reaching 
consequences.
This case study explores the consequences of Thomas Cook's collapse, looks at what went wrong, and provides 
background on how the company became a giant before collapsing.
Key Highlights
•
In September 2019 Thomas Cook went into liquidation causing rolling chaos throughout the travel industry 
as it left 150,000 British holidaymakers stranded and 21,000 jobs at risk.
•
When Thomas Cook went out of business, it was about 1.7bn in debt to banks with a further 1.3bn owed to 
suppliers.
•
A parliamentary committee leading an inquiry into the failure of the travel giant also issued a damning 
verdict of mismanagement by successive bosses.
•
A rescue deal involving 200 million to enable Thomas Cook to weather the winter season was abandoned.
•
Governments across Europe and Africa were plunged into crisis planning mode as they help with the 
repatriation of more than 500,000 stranded tourists and begin to count the cost of the holiday company's 
demise on already-battered economies.
Reasons to Buy
•
Learn about the history of Thomas Cook and how it become the go-to name for package holidays in the UK 
and beyond
•
Understand the factors that culminated in Thomas Cook's demise
•
Assess the impact that Thomas Cook's collapse could have on the industry in the mid to long term
2019 Case Study on Thomas Cook - Analysis of the Travel Group's Downfall - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Understand what is happening with Thomas Cook's assets in the immediate aftermath of its downfall
Key Topics Covered
•
Overview
•
The rise of Thomas Cook
•
What went wrong?
•
What can be learned?
•
What now?
•
Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Thomas Cook
•
Fosun
•
Hayes Travel
•
Ryanair
•
easyJet
•
Jet2
•
Tui
•
Airbnb
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/ciq30w
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191119005954/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 20, 2019
End of Document
North Africa Destination Market Insights, 2019 - Analysis of Infrastructure, Attractions, Risks and Opportunities 
- ResearchAndMarkets.com
North Africa Destination Market Insights, 2019 - Analysis of Infrastructure, 
Attractions, Risks and Opportunities - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
November 19, 2019 Tuesday 5:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 411 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Destination Market Insights: North Africa - Analysis of destination markets, infrastructure and attractions, and 
risks and opportunities" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
This insight report includes an analysis of source markets, infrastructure and attractions, and assesses the risks 
and opportunities for North Africa as a destination market.
Key Highlights
In 2018, 31 million people visited the North Africa region, but travel has not yet returned to 2010 levels. In 2011, 
The Arab Spring protests brought instability to the region and reduced the appeal to international visitors, who opted 
instead for countries perceived as safer.
Over two-thirds of arrivals into North Africa are for leisure purposes. The beach resorts, cultural cities and 
untouched nature make the area perfect for leisure travel.
Many North African citizens are living and working in neighboring countries so VFR travel is boosted both as they 
travel home and as family and friends come to visit them. Europe is another popular destination for North African 
citizens. For example, more than two and a half million Maghrebi immigrants live in France, mainly from Algeria and 
Morocco and over 800,000 people from Morocco currently live in Spain, making it the largest foreign community in 
the country.
Reasons to Buy
•
Obtain a clear and detailed insight into new developments in popular, well-established and upcoming 
tourist destinations.
•
Use data and analysis to explore future trends related to international arrivals, airlines, niche tourism, and 
hotel developments.
•
Gain a strong understanding of the opportunities in the market, as well as the risks, to support better 
business decisions.
Topics Covered
North Africa Destination Market Insights, 2019 - Analysis of Infrastructure, Attractions, Risks and Opportunities 
- ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Overview
•
The countries of North Africa
•
Country Snapshot
•
North Africa in 2018
•
Key Trends
•
Key Projects in Each Market
•
New International Flights
•
Types of Tourism
•
Adventure Tourism
•
Sun & Beach Tourism
•
Historical & Religious Tourism
•
Country Focus: Morocco
•
City Profile - Marrakech
•
Country Focus: Egypt
•
City Profile - Sharm El-Sheikh
•
Country Focus: Tunisia
•
City Profile - Sousse
•
Regional Risk, threats and opportunities
•
Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Royal Air Maroc
•
Tui
•
Thomas Cook
•
Egyptair
•
Ryanair
•
easyJet Air Algerie
•
Air France
•
Accor
•
Ryad Mogador Hotels
•
Marriott
•
Hilton
•
Iberostar
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/xp6myo
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191119005917/en/
North Africa Destination Market Insights, 2019 - Analysis of Infrastructure, Attractions, Risks and Opportunities 
- ResearchAndMarkets.com
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 20, 2019
End of Document
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in October 2019 Passenger traffic 
unchanged in Argentina , with increases of 12.6% in Arm....
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in 
October 2019; Passenger traffic unchanged in Argentina, with increases of 
12.6% in Armenia and 1.8% in Italy, partially offset by declines in Brazil and 
Uruguay
Business Wire
November 18, 2019 Monday 9:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1193 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
Corporación América Airports S.A. (NYSE: CAAP), ("CAAP" or the "Company") the largest private sector airport 
operator in the world by number of airports, reported today preliminary unchanged year-over-year passenger traffic 
in October 2019.
(1)Preliminary data on 750 flights in August, 873 flights in September and 547 in October at Brasilia Airport, due to 
delays in the submission of information by third parties
Passenger Traffic Overview
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in October 2019 Passenger traffic 
unchanged in Argentina , with increases of 12.6% in Arm....
Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements Highlights
Statistics
Oct'1
9(1)
Oct'18
% Var.
YTD'1
9(1)
YTD'18
% Var.
Domestic Passengers (thousands)
4,033
4,010
0.6%
39,42
8
37,123
6.2%
International Passengers (thousands)
2,319
2,280
1.7%
23,37
6
23,355
0.1%
Transit Passengers (thousands)
721
803
-10.2%
7,008
7,527
-6.9%
Total Passengers (thousands)
7,073
7,094
-0.3%
69,81
2
68,006
2.7%
Cargo Volume (thousand tons)
38.5
41.0
-6.0%
346.7
332.5
4.2%
Total Aircraft Movements (thousands)
72.6
76.5
-5.1%
717.9
736.5
-2.5%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in October 2019 Passenger traffic 
unchanged in Argentina , with increases of 12.6% in Arm....
Total passenger traffic in October 2019 remained flat YoY, with traffic unchanged in Argentina, increases of 12.6% 
in Armenia and 1.8% in Italy, partially offset by declines in Brazil, Ecuador and Uruguay.
In Argentina, total passenger traffic remained flat YoY with 3.5 million passengers. Domestic passenger traffic was 
unchanged, facing difficult YoY comps as traffic in October 2018 had increased 16.5% YoY. In addition, Andes 
discontinued flights in October, but is gradually resuming operations in November, while Aerolíneas Argentinas's 
flights were impacted by a pilot strike. Bad weather conditions at Aeroparque Airport also offset the continued good 
performance of new routes by existing and new airlines added during 2018 and 2019. International traffic declined 
2.5% YoY, reflecting weak macro conditions in the country. In addition, low-cost carrier Flybondi added a new 
international route to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with three weekly flights, and announced a new international route to 
Sao Paulo, Brazil, to be opened early next year.
In Italy, passenger traffic increased 1.8% YoY, driven by growth of 12.0% at Florence Airport, mainly reflecting the 
good performance of the routes opened in September by Vueling to four new destinations and additional flights to 
Madrid by Iberia. This was partially offset by a 3.3% decline at Pisa airport, as the reduction of operations by 
Ryanair and Pobeda continue to impact traffic at this airport.
In Brazil, estimated figures are disclosed given delays in the submission of information for 547 flights out of a total 
of 14,047 flights, due to information systems transition by third parties. Passenger traffic declined 2.4% YoY, a 
recovery from the 9.4% drop experienced in September although still reflecting the cessation of operations by 
Avianca Brasil, partially offset by traffic growth driven by other airlines. Domestic passengers increased 3.8% YoY, 
reflecting a change in trends from the declines posted since April this year. International passenger traffic increased 
48.7% YoY according to the new methodology introduced by ANAC, and 60.9% under the prior methodology, 
primarily reflecting Gol's flights to Miami, Orlando, Buenos Aires and Cancún, together with Latam Airlines new 
route to Santiago de Chile, started in October. In addition, during October both Gol and Latam airlines increased 
domestic frequencies, in an effort to restore capacity at Brasilia Airport.
In Armenia, total passenger traffic increased 12.6%, benefiting from the addition of several routes and frequencies 
during 2018 and 2019, and the good performance of Azimuth Airlines' flights to Russian destinations Krasnodar and 
Rostov, and Aircompany Armenia's flights to regional destinations, as well as additional flights by Ural and 
Nordwind airlines to Moscow, Russia.
In Uruguay, passenger traffic declined 9.9% YoY, mainly reflecting the temporary cancellation of Avianca 
Colombia's daily route to Bogotá, Colombia, anticipated to be restored in December. Traffic also reflects a decline 
in flights to Aeroparque, Argentina, given the continued weak macro environment in that country and flight 
cancellations to Chile given social unrest in the country. This was partially offset by the two additional frequencies to 
Madrid, Spain, opened by Iberia in July 2019.
In Ecuador, total passenger traffic declined 1.4% YoY, as growth of 8.5% in international traffic was more than 
offset by a 9.7% decline in domestic traffic, due to social unrest experienced in the country in October. International 
traffic growth was driven by the good performance of the route to Fort Lauderdale by JetBlue together with the start 
of operations by Interjet at Guayaquil Airport, which opened daily routes to both Cancún and Ciudad de México, 
México. Aeroméxico, however, discontinued its route to Ciudad de Mexico, as previously announced.
Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Cargo volume declined 6.0% YoY in October 2019, mainly as a result of declines of 11.5% in Argentina and 25.3% 
in Ecuador, partially offset by an increase of 17.8% in Brazil.
Aircraft movements declined 5.1% YoY in October 2019, mainly as a result of declines of 7.6% in Argentina, 8.7% 
in Brazil and 19.5% in Uruguay, partially offset by increases of 22.8% in Armenia and 6.0% in Ecuador.
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in October 2019 Passenger traffic 
unchanged in Argentina , with increases of 12.6% in Arm....
Summary Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Oct'19
Oct'18
% Var.
Y
T
D
'1
9
Y
T
D
'1
8
% Var
Passenger Traffic (thousands)
Argentina
3,491
3,502
-0.3%
3
5
,
7
3
8
3
3
,
1
2
3
7.9%
Italy
773
759
1.8%
7
,
2
0
4
7
,
2
0
0
0.1%
Brazil (1)
1,675
1,717
-2.4%
1
5
,
6
2
1
1
6
,
7
5
5
-6.8%
Uruguay
167
185
-9.9%
1
,
8
3
1
1
,
9
1
7
-4.5%
Ecuador
361
366
-1.4%
3
,
7
4
4
3
,
6
9
7
1.2%
Armenia
298
265
12.6%
2
,
7
2
3
2
,
4
1
7
12.7%
Peru
309
300
2.9%
2
,
9
2
,
8
1.9%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in October 2019 Passenger traffic 
unchanged in Argentina , with increases of 12.6% in Arm....
5
1
9
7
TOTAL
7,073
7,094
-0.3%
6
9
,
8
1
2
6
8
,
0
0
6
2.7%
(1)Preliminary data on 750 flights in August and 873 flights in September at Brasilia Airport, due to delays in the submission of information by 
third parties.
Cargo Volume (tons)
Argentina
22,211
25,105
-11.5%
1
8
6
,
5
8
8
1
9
4
,
5
7
0
-4.1%
Italy
1,256
1,168
7.6%
1
0
,
8
2
3
9
,
5
4
1
13.4%
Brazil
7,140
6,061
17.8%
7
5
,
5
0
1
5
3
,
1
9
6
41.9%
Uruguay
2,488
2,751
-9.6%
2
1
,
4
7
9
2
2
,
4
6
1
-4.4%
Ecuador
2,707
3,623
-25.3%
3
2
,
0
6
7
3
3
,
9
1
5
-5.4%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in October 2019 Passenger traffic 
unchanged in Argentina , with increases of 12.6% in Arm....
Armenia
2,295
1,890
21.4%
1
5
,
9
9
1
1
4
,
8
4
3
7.7%
Peru
446
416
7.1%
4
,
2
1
7
4
,
0
1
9
4.9%
TOTAL
38,542
41,014
-6.0%
3
4
6
,
6
6
7
3
3
2
,
5
4
5
4.2%
Aircraft Movements
Argentina
36,582
39,603
-7.6%
3
7
4
,
6
4
6
3
7
4
,
3
6
0
0.1%
Italy
7,315
7,207
1.5%
6
8
,
8
2
9
6
7
,
8
7
0
1.4%
Brazil
14,047
15,382
-8.7%
1
3
3
,
3
3
6
1
5
3
,
6
8
6
-13.2%
Uruguay
2,083
2,589
-19.5%
2
4
,
2
2
7
,
7
-12.8%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in October 2019 Passenger traffic 
unchanged in Argentina , with increases of 12.6% in Arm....
0
8
5
7
Ecuador
7,449
7,027
6.0%
6
8
,
4
0
7
6
5
,
8
4
5
3.9%
Armenia
2,598
2,115
22.8%
2
3
,
0
2
2
2
0
,
1
3
9
14.3%
Peru
2,514
2,568
-2.1%
2
5
,
4
5
1
2
6
,
8
4
7
-5.2%
TOTAL
72,588
76,491
-5.1%
7
1
7
,
8
9
9
7
3
6
,
5
0
4
-2.5%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports Flat Total Passenger Traffic in October 2019 Passenger traffic 
unchanged in Argentina , with increases of 12.6% in Arm....
To 
obtain 
the 
full 
text 
of 
this 
press 
release, 
please 
click 
on 
the 
following 
link: 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com
About Corporación América Airports
Corporación América Airports acquires, develops and operates airport concessions. Currently, the Company 
operates 52 airports in 7 countries across Latin America and Europe (Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador, 
Armenia and Italy). In 2018, Corporación América Airports served 81.3 million passengers. The Company is listed 
on the New York Stock Exchange where it trades under the ticker "CAAP". For more information, visit 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191118005665/en/
CONTACT: Investor Relations Contact
Gimena Albanesi
Email: gimena.albanesi@caairports.com
Phone: +5411 4852-6411
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 19, 2019
End of Document
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Overview and Insights Report 2019-2023 Featuring Ryanair , easyJet , IndiGo, 
Southwest Airlines , WestJet, Air Asia - ResearchAn....
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Overview and Insights Report 2019-2023 
Featuring Ryanair, easyJet, IndiGo, Southwest Airlines, WestJet, Air Asia - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
November 12, 2019 Tuesday 9:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 449 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Global Low Cost Airlines Market: overview and insights for low-cost airlines to 2023" report has been added to 
ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The Low Cost Airline Market report provides in-depth analysis of the key market trends that are shaping the future 
of this segment and an analysis of the low cost airline market globally. Detailed market insight is provided on the 
Americas, Asia-Pacific, Middle East & Africa, and Europe. It also features profiles of some of the segment's leading 
players and looks at how companies can better meet their customers' needs.
United States (US) recorded the highest number of seats sold in 2018, followed by Spain and the UK. The increase 
in the number of seats sold is primarily attributed to a rise in domestic demand.
In 2018, Spain had the highest number of seats sold in the European region, followed by the UK, Italy, and 
Germany. In 2018, in terms of the number of seats sold, LCCs accounted for 55.1% of the total Spanish aviation 
market.
With the increase in middle-income group consumers and growing demand for low-cost air tickets, the LCC market 
in India witnessed the highest number of seats sold in the Asia-Pacific region. Moreover, the Indian Government 
scheme to expand and develop aviation infrastructure in the country is likely to boost this segment.
Apart from the three main markets of Brazil, Mexico and Colombia, LCCs have started to penetrate the domestic 
markets of Chile, Peru and Argentina. Weak currency and economic uncertainties discourage travelers in Argentina 
to go abroad, this helped the domestic travel on LCC carriers.
Scope
•
The Low Cost Airline Market report provides in-depth analysis of the key market trends that are shaping 
the future of this segment and an analysis of the low cost airline market globally.
•
Detailed market insight is provided on the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Middle East & Africa, and Europe. It also 
features profiles of some of the segment's leading players and looks at how companies can better meet 
their customers' needs.
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Overview and Insights Report 2019-2023 Featuring Ryanair , easyJet , IndiGo, 
Southwest Airlines , WestJet, Air Asia - ResearchAn....
Reasons to buy
•
Gauge which are the biggest and most promising regional markets for LCC market
•
Understand the demand-side dynamics within the industry to identify key trends and growth opportunities
•
Gain an understanding of the outlook forregional markets and learn from existing successes and our 
recommendations.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Snapshot
•
Key Trends
•
Deals
•
Key Insights
•
Outlook
•
Company Profiles
•
Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Ryanair
•
easyJet
•
IndiGo
•
Southwest Airlines
•
WestJet
•
Air Asia
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/nb9mnk
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191112006102/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 13, 2019
End of Document
Germany Tourism Market Insights Report 2019 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Germany Tourism Market Insights Report 2019 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
October 30, 2019 Wednesday 2:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 408 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Tourism Source Market Insight: Germany" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
This report provides a thorough insight into the German domestic and outbound tourism markets. The report looks 
at the profiles of German tourists and summarizes the key reasons that they travel. The report offers an in-depth 
analysis of traveler flows, spending patterns, main destination markets and current and future opportunities for 
tourism businesses seeking to tap into the German outbound travel market.
Key Highlights
•
Germany is the top spending country in Europe in both domestic and international tourism. Indeed, they 
spent US$ 340bn at home in 2018.
•
On average, German tourists spent US$154.74 per day of international holiday in 2018, which represents a 
1.4% increase compared to 2017.
•
In 2018, the age group 35-49 accounted for 70.6 million trips, making it the main holiday-taking age group 
in Germany. It is expected to grow at a CAGR of 3% between 2019 and 2022.
Reasons to Buy
•
This report provides clear insight into developments in the German domestic and outbound tourism 
markets.
•
The report uses data and analysis to discuss future trends related to domestic trips, international 
departures, traveler spending, and main destination markets.
•
The report explores the different profiles of German tourists and the reasons that they travel, hence 
providing an insight into the trends in different segments of the market.
•
The reader gains a strong understanding of the opportunities in the German market, as well as the risks, to 
support better business decisions.
Companies Mentioned
•
Deutsche Bahn
•
Ryanair
Germany Tourism Market Insights Report 2019 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
easyJet
•
Eurowings
•
Norwegian
•
Wizz Air
•
Airbnb
Key Topics Covered
•
Overview
•
Region Snapshot
•
At a glance: The German tourist market in 2018
•
Risks to German tourism
•
Main findings
•
Tourist profiles
•
Which types of holiday do Germans take?
•
Which factors motivate Germans when choosing a holiday?
•
An insight into German tourists
•
Domestic tourism
•
Domestic flows
•
Domestic spending
•
Outbound tourism
•
Outbound flows
•
Outbound spending
•
Main and developing destination markets
•
Where did German tourists travel to in 2018?
•
Main destinations
•
Developing destinations
•
Outlook
•
Opportunities to attract German tourism
•
Appendix
•
References
•
Terminology and definitions
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/radl3j
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191030005663/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
Germany Tourism Market Insights Report 2019 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 31, 2019
End of Document
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total 
Passenger Traffic in September 2019; Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in 
Argentina and 19.2% in Armenia, partially offset by declines in Brazil and 
Ecuador
Business Wire
October 16, 2019 Wednesday 11:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1138 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
Corporación América Airports S.A. (NYSE: CAAP), ("CAAP" or the "Company") the largest private sector airport 
operator in the world by number of airports, reported today preliminary year-over-year passenger traffic growth of 
1.2% in September 2019.
Passenger Traffic Overview
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements Highlights
Statistics
S
e
p'
1
9
(
1
)
Sep'18
% Var.
Y
T
D
'1
9
(
1
)
YTD'18
% Var.
Domestic Passengers (thousands)
3
,
9
7
3
3,878
2.4%
3
5
,
3
9
5
33,113
6.9%
International Passengers (thousands)
2
,
4
3
8
2,366
3.0%
2
1
,
0
5
7
21,075
-0.1%
Transit Passengers (thousands)
6
5
7
737
-10.9%
6
,
2
8
6
6,724
-6.5%
Total Passengers (thousands)
7
,
0
6
8
6,982
1.2%
6
2
,
7
3
9
60,912
3.0%
Cargo Volume (thousand tons)
3
1
.
8
32.4
-1.9%
3
0
8
.
1
291.5
5.7%
Total Aircraft Movements (thousands)
7
1
.
0
72.4
-1.9%
6
4
5
.
3
660.0
-2.2%
(1) Preliminary data on 750 flights in August and 873 flights in September at Brasilia Airport, due to delays in the submission of information by 
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
third parties
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
Total passenger traffic in September 2019 increased 1.2% YoY primarily reflecting growth of 5.9% in Argentina, 
19.2% in Armenia and 2.4% in Italy, partially offset by declines in Brazil, Ecuador and Uruguay.
In Argentina, total passenger traffic increased 5.9% YoY, driven by growth of 7.5% in domestic passengers as a 
result of the continued good performance of new routes by existing and new airlines introduced during 2018 and 
2019, together with a mix-shift to domestic from international travel by local passengers, further supported by an 
increase of 1.0% in international passenger traffic, signaling a continued slight recovery from the downward trend 
earlier in the year. In addition, Norwegian Air Argentina started new domestic routes to Ushuaia and Jujuy operated 
from Aeroparque, further enhancing connectivity in the country. Moreover, low-cost carrier Flybondi added a new 
international route to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with three weekly flights, which started operations in October.
In Italy, passenger traffic increased 2.4% YoY, driven by growth of 4.6% at Florence Airport, mainly reflecting 
additional routes by Vueling to four new destinations and the additional flights to Madrid by Iberia. This was further 
supported by a 1.4% traffic growth at Pisa airport, a reversal in the downward trend observed since April 2019 
mainly driven by the increase of operations by Ryanair, together with the launch of new routes to Brussels, Belgium, 
and Prague, Czech Republic, by Ryanair, among others. In addition, low cost carrier Vueling inaugurated new 
international routes at Florence airport, with five weekly flights to Munich, Germany, four weekly flights to Prague, 
Czech Republic, two weekly flights to Bilbao, Spain, and a daily flight to Vienna, Austria.
In Brazil, estimated figures are disclosed given delays in the submission of information for 873 flights out of a total 
of 13,235 flights, due to information systems transition by third parties. Passenger traffic declined 9.4%, primarily 
reflecting the cessation of operations by a Avianca Brasil. Domestic passengers declined 6.8% while international 
passengers increased 35.7% according to the new methodology introduced by ANAC. In addition, during 
September Gol started additional domestic routes from Brasilia airport to São José do Rio Preto, Araguaína and 
Barreiras, in partnership with Passaredo, in line with its strategy to expand operations at Brasilia Airport.
In Armenia, total passenger traffic increased 19.2%, benefiting from the addition of several new routes and 
frequencies during 2018 and 2019, and the good performance of Azimuth Airlines' flights to Russian destinations 
Krasnodar and Rostov, as well as Ural Airlines and Nordwind Airlines additional flights to Moscow, Russia.
In Uruguay, passenger traffic declined 3.3% YoY, mainly reflecting the cancellation of Avianca Colombia's daily 
route to Bogotá, Colombia. However, Avianca announced that it will restore this route next December, with four 
weekly flights. Traffic also reflects a decline in flights to Aeroparque, Argentina, given the continued weak macro 
environment in that country. This was partially offset by the addition of more frequencies to Madrid, Spain, by Iberia, 
in July 2019.
In Ecuador, total passenger traffic declined 15.9%, reflecting the closure of the airport during September weekends, 
due to the renovation of the runway and taxiways. International passenger traffic declined 11.5%, while domestic 
traffic declined 19.7% during the month.
Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Cargo volume declined 1.9% in September 2019, mainly as a result of declines of 30.7% in Ecuador, and 7.7% in 
Brazil and 5.1% in Uruguay, partially offset by increases of 29.3% and 2.0% in Armenia and Argentina, respectively.
Aircraft movements declined 1.9% in September 2019, mainly as a result of declines of 11.3% in Brazil and 12.3% 
in Ecuador, partially offset by increases of 30.4% in Armenia and 4.2% in Italy.
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
Summary Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Sep'19
Sep'18
% Var.
Y
T
D
'1
9
Y
T
D
'1
8
% Var
Passenger Traffic (thousands)
Argentina
3,554
3,357
5.9%
3
2
,
2
4
7
2
9
,
6
2
1
8.9%
Italy
862
842
2.4%
6
,
4
3
1
6
,
4
4
1
-0.1%
Brazil (1)
1,483
1,636
-9.4%
1
3
,
9
4
7
1
5
,
0
3
9
-7.3%
Uruguay
175
181
-3.3%
1
,
6
6
5
1
,
7
3
3
-3.9%
Ecuador
329
391
-15.9%
3
,
3
8
2
3
,
3
3
1
1.5%
Armenia
332
279
19.2%
2
,
4
2
4
2
,
1
5
2
12.7%
Peru
332
296
12.0%
2
,
6
2
,
5
1.7%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
4
2
9
7
TOTAL
7,068
6,982
1.2%
6
2
,
7
3
9
6
0
,
9
1
2
3.0%
(1) Preliminary data on 750 flights in August and 873 flights in September at Brasilia Airport, due to delays in the submission of information by 
third parties.
Cargo Volume (tons)
Argentina
17,932
17,584
2.0%
1
6
4
,
3
7
7
1
6
9
,
4
6
5
-3.0%
Italy
1,072
905
18.5%
9
,
5
6
7
8
,
3
7
3
14.2%
Brazil
5,857
6,348
-7.7%
6
8
,
3
6
2
4
7
,
1
3
5
45.0%
Uruguay
2,068
2,178
-5.1%
1
8
,
9
9
1
1
9
,
7
1
0
-3.6%
Ecuador
2,316
3,341
-30.7%
2
9
,
3
6
0
3
0
,
2
9
2
-3.1%
Armenia
2,091
1,617
29.3%
1
3
1
2
5.7%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
,
6
9
7
,
9
5
3
Peru
431
410
5.2%
3
,
7
7
1
3
,
6
0
3
4.7%
TOTAL
31,768
32,383
-1.9%
3
0
8
,
1
2
5
2
9
1
,
5
3
1
5.7%
Aircraft Movements
Argentina
36,327
36,098
0.6%
3
3
8
,
0
6
4
3
3
4
,
7
5
7
1.0%
Italy
7,931
7,614
4.2%
6
1
,
5
1
4
6
0
,
6
6
3
1.4%
Brazil
13,235
14,928
-11.3%
1
1
9
,
2
8
9
1
3
8
,
3
0
4
-13.7%
Uruguay
2,054
2,297
-10.6%
2
2
,
1
2
5
2
5
,
1
6
8
-12.1%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
Ecuador
5,856
6,677
-12.3%
6
0
,
9
5
8
5
8
,
8
1
8
3.6%
Armenia
2,788
2,138
30.4%
2
0
,
4
2
4
1
8
,
0
2
4
13.3%
Peru
2,772
2,613
6.1%
2
2
,
9
3
7
2
4
,
2
7
9
-5.5%
TOTAL
70,963
72,365
-1.9%
6
4
5
,
3
1
1
6
6
0
,
0
1
3
-2.2%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.2% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in September 2019; 
Passenger traffic up 5.9% YoY in Argentina and 19.2% i....
To 
obtain 
the 
full 
text 
of 
this 
press 
release, 
please 
click 
on 
the 
following 
link: 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com .
About Corporación América Airports
Corporación América Airports acquires, develops and operates airport concessions. Currently, the Company 
operates 52 airports in 7 countries across Latin America and Europe (Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador, 
Armenia and Italy). In 2018, Corporación América Airports served 81.3 million passengers. The Company is listed 
on the New York Stock Exchange where it trades under the ticker "CAAP". For more information, visit 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191016005950/en/
CONTACT: Investor Relations Contact
Gimena Albanesi
Email: gimena.albanesi@caairports.com
Phone: +5411 4852-6411
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 17, 2019
End of Document
Global Airlines Market Analysis, Trends, and Forecasts Report 2019-2025: Market is Projected to Grow by 
$313 Billion - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Global Airlines Market Analysis, Trends, and Forecasts Report 2019-2025: 
Market is Projected to Grow by $313 Billion - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
October 14, 2019 Monday 5:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 530 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Airlines - Market Analysis, Trends, and Forecasts" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's 
offering.
Airlines market worldwide is projected to grow by US$313.1 Billion, driven by a compounded growth of 5.1%. 
Passenger, one of the segments analyzed and sized in this study, displays the potential to grow at over 5.2%.
The shifting dynamics supporting this growth makes it critical for businesses in this space to keep abreast of the 
changing pulse of the market. Poised to reach over US$880.2 Billion by the year 2025, Passenger will bring in 
healthy gains adding significant momentum to global growth.
Representing the developed world, the United States will maintain a 3.9% growth momentum. Within Europe, which 
continues to remain an important element in the world economy, Germany will add over US$10.9 Billion to the 
region's size and clout in the next 5 to 6 years. Over US$9 Billion worth of projected demand in the region will come 
from Rest of Europe markets. In Japan, Passenger will reach a market size of US$50 Billion by the close of the 
analysis period.
As the world's second largest economy and the new game changer in global markets, China exhibits the potential 
to grow at 8.1% over the next couple of years and add approximately US$92.1 Billion in terms of addressable 
opportunity for the picking by aspiring businesses and their astute leaders.
Presented in visually rich graphics are these and many more need-to-know quantitative data important in ensuring 
quality of strategy decisions, be it entry into new markets or allocation of resources within a portfolio.
Several macroeconomic factors and internal market forces will shape growth and development of demand patterns 
in emerging countries in Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East. All research viewpoints presented are 
based on validated engagements from influencers in the market, whose opinions supersede all other research 
methodologies.
Competitors identified in this market include:
•
Air China Limited
Global Airlines Market Analysis, Trends, and Forecasts Report 2019-2025: Market is Projected to Grow by 
$313 Billion - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Air New Zealand Limited
•
All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd.
•
American Airlines Group
•
Cathay Pacific Airways Limited
•
China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited
•
China Southern Airlines Company Limited
•
Delta Air Lines, Inc.
•
Deutsche Lufthansa Ag
•
Eva Air Corporation
•
Japan Airlines Co., Ltd.
•
Qantas Airways Limited
•
Qatar Airways Company Q.C.S.C.
•
Ryanair Dac
•
Singapore Airlines Limited
•
Southwest Airlines Co.
•
the Emirates Group
•
Turkish Airlines
•
United Airlines, Inc.
•
Virgin Australia Airlines Pty Ltd.
•
Air China Limited
•
Air New Zealand Limited
•
All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd.
•
American Airlines Group
•
Cathay Pacific Airways Limited
•
China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited
•
China Southern Airlines Company Limited
•
Delta Air Lines, Inc.
•
Deutsche Lufthansa Ag
•
Eva Air Corporation
•
Japan Airlines Co., Ltd.
•
Qantas Airways Limited
•
Qatar Airways Company Q.C.S.C.
•
Ryanair Dac
•
Singapore Airlines Limited
•
Southwest Airlines Co.
•
the Emirates Group
Global Airlines Market Analysis, Trends, and Forecasts Report 2019-2025: Market is Projected to Grow by 
$313 Billion - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Turkish Airlines
•
United Airlines, Inc.
•
Virgin Australia Airlines Pty Ltd.
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/v7bqzf
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191014005577/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 15, 2019
End of Document
London Heathrow Remains No. 1 in Airport Connectivity for Third Straight Year Kuala Lumpur ranks first in low-
cost connectivity as Asia Pacific LCCs continue ra....
London Heathrow Remains No. 1 in Airport Connectivity for Third Straight 
Year; Kuala Lumpur ranks first in low-cost connectivity as Asia Pacific LCCs 
continue rapid growth; Key Findings:
Business Wire
September 23, 2019 Monday 8:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 366 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Today, OAG , the world's leading provider of travel data and insight, released its            Megahubs Index 2019 . The 
analysis reveals the Top 50 most internationally connected airports in the world and the Top 25 most domestically 
connected airports in the U.S.
This 
press 
release 
features 
multimedia. 
View 
the 
full 
release 
here: 
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190923005016/en/
Top 5 Global Megahubs (Photo: Business Wire)
London Heathrow (LHR; International Connectivity Index: 317) is the world's most internationally connected airport 
for the third straight year. On the busiest day in aviation this year, over 65,000 international connections were 
possible within a six-hour window. Frankfurt International Airport (FRA; ICI:309) moved up one spot in this year's 
global rankings, giving Europe the top-two spots in the world. Chicago O'Hare (ORD; ICI:290), Amsterdam (AMS; 
ICI:279), and Munich (MUC; ICI:259) followed closely behind.
"Munich's 22-point increase in connectivity catapulted the airport from 11th in 2018 to this year's Top 5. Given the 
ongoing share battle between Lufthansa and Ryanair for the German market, Munich's investment to broaden its 
international network is paying off," said John Grant, senior analyst with OAG.
The most connected international hubs in the Asia Pacific include Singapore in ninth (SIN; ICI: 240), Hong Kong in 
10th (HKG; ICI:234), Incheon in 11th (ICN; ICI:233), and Bangkok in 14th (BKK; ICI:214). Kuala Lumpur (KUL; 
ICI:150) is the most connected Megahub in the world for low-cost carriers (LCCs).
For more insights from the Megahubs Index 2019 and the full methodology, view the full analysis here .
About OAG
OAG is a leading global travel data provider, that has been powering the growth and innovation of the air travel 
ecosystem since 1929.
London Heathrow Remains No. 1 in Airport Connectivity for Third Straight Year Kuala Lumpur ranks first in low-
cost connectivity as Asia Pacific LCCs continue ra....
We partner with some of the biggest global brands, airports, airlines, travel operators and fast-growing start-ups to 
design the best services available today, and the finest innovations of tomorrow.
Headquartered in the UK, OAG has global operations in the USA, Singapore, Japan, Lithuania and China.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190923005016/en/
CONTACT: Media:
Alexandra Aguiar
Corporate Ink for OAG
oag@corporateink.com
+1 617 969 9192
http://www.businesswire.com
Graphic
 
Top 5 Global Megahubs (Photo: Business Wire)
Load-Date: September 24, 2019
End of Document
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.6% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in August 2019 
Passenger traffic up 9.0% YoY in Argentina and 15.0% in Ar....
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.6% YoY Increase in Total 
Passenger Traffic in August 2019; Passenger traffic up 9.0% YoY in 
Argentina and 15.0% in Armenia, partially offset by declines in Brazil and 
Italy
Business Wire
September 19, 2019 Thursday 12:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1079 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
Corporación América Airports S.A. (NYSE: CAAP), ("CAAP" or the "Company") the largest private sector airport 
operator in the world by number of airports, reported today preliminary year-over-year passenger traffic growth of 
1.6% in August 2019.
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.6% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in August 2019 
Passenger traffic up 9.0% YoY in Argentina and 15.0% in Ar....
Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements Highlights
Statistics
Aug'1
9(1)
Aug'18
% Var.
YTD'19
YTD'18
% Var.
Domestic Passengers (thousands)
4,257
4,106
3.7%
31,422
29,235
7.5%
International Passengers (thousands)
2,632
2,524
4.3%
18,619
18,709
-0.5%
Transit Passengers (thousands)
649
789
-17.8%
5,630
5,987
-6.0%
Total Passengers (thousands)
7,538
7,419
1.6%
55,671
53,931
3.2%
Cargo Volume (thousand tons)
32.1
31.2
3.0%
276.4
259.1
6.6%
Total Aircraft Movements (thousands)
77.1
79.9
-3.6%
574.3
587.6
-2.3%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.6% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in August 2019 
Passenger traffic up 9.0% YoY in Argentina and 15.0% in Ar....
(1) Preliminary data on 750 flights at Brasilia Airport, due to delays in the submission of information by third parties
Passenger Traffic Overview
Total passenger traffic in August 2019 increased 1.6% YoY primarily reflecting growth of 9.0% in Argentina and 
15.0% in Armenia, partially offset by declines in Brazil and Italy.
In Argentina, total passenger traffic increased 9.0% YoY, driven by growth of 11.0% in domestic passengers as a 
result of the continued good performance of new routes by existing and new airlines introduced during 2018 and 
2019, together with a mix-shift to domestic from international travel by local passengers, further supported by an 
increase of 3.6% in international passenger traffic, signaling a slight recovery from the recent downward trend. In 
addition, Air Europa started a new flight connecting Iguazú Airport with Madrid, Spain, via Asunción, Paraguay. 
Moreover, Norwegian Air Argentina announced a new domestic route to Ushuaia, starting in September, further 
enhancing connectivity in the country while low-cost carrier Flybondi announced a new international route to Rio de 
Janeiro, Brasil, with three weekly flights, starting in October.
In Italy, passenger traffic declined 1.7% YoY, reflecting a drop of 3.4% in passenger traffic at Pisa Airport, mainly 
due to the reduction of operations by Ryanair due to adjustments in operational schedules. The suspension of 
Pobeda's route to Saint Petersburg and lower frequencies to Moscow also contributed to lower traffic at Pisa 
Airport. This was partially offset by growth of 2.4% at Florence Airport, reflecting additional flights to Paris, France, 
by Air France and, to a lesser extent, additional flights to Madrid, Spain, by Iberia.
In Brazil, estimated figures are disclosed given delays in the submission of information for 750 flights out of a total 
of 6,823 flights, due to information systems transition by third parties. Passenger traffic declined 14.5%, primarily 
reflecting the cessation of operations by a Avianca Brasil. Domestic passengers declined 9.9% while international 
passengers increased 28.3% according to the new methodology introduced by ANAC. In addition, Gol announced 
additional domestic flights from Natal Airport to Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, and Brasilia, starting in December, while 
Latam Airlines Brasil announced additional flights from Natal to São Paulo beginning November. Moreover, Azul 
Airlines announced additional frequencies to Viracopos, Campinas, in December.
In Armenia, total passenger traffic increased 15.0%, benefiting from the addition of several new routes and 
frequencies during 2018 and 2019, and also reflecting the increase in flights from Russia to Armenia, given 
Russia's ban on flights to and from Georgia.
In Ecuador, total passenger traffic increased 0.2%, with international passenger traffic increasing 5.6%, mainly 
reflecting new flights by Jet Blue and Aeroméxico started earlier this year. However, Aeroméxico recently 
announced that it will discontinue this route starting October 2019. Traffic growth was also driven by the new route 
by Plus Ultra to Madrid, Spain, opened during July 2019. In addition, during August low-cost carrier Wingo Airlines 
started a new flight to Bogotá, Colombia operating from Guayaquil Airport. Moreover, Iberia announced a new route 
to Madrid, Spain, starting in December.
Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Cargo volume increased 3.0% in August 2019, mainly as a result increases of 25.4% in Brazil and 19.1% in Italy, 
partially offset by declines of 7.4% and 13.0% in Ecuador and Armenia, respectively.
Aircraft movements decreased 3.6% in August 2019, mainly as a result of declines of 15.4% in Brazil and 2.0% in 
Argentina.
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.6% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in August 2019 
Passenger traffic up 9.0% YoY in Argentina and 15.0% in Ar....
Summary Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Aug'19
Aug'18
% Var.
YT
D'
19
YT
D'
18
% Var
Passenger Traffic (thousands)
Argentina
3,821
3,507
9.0%
28,
69
3
26,
26
3
9.2%
Italy
902
917
-1.7%
5,5
69
5,5
99
-0.5%
Brazil (1)
1,467
1,717
-14.5%
12,
46
4
13,
40
3
-7.0%
Uruguay
173
171
1.0%
1,4
90
1,5
52
-4.0%
Ecuador
418
417
0.2%
3,0
53
2,9
39
3.9%
Armenia
400
347
15.0%
2,0
92
1,8
73
11.7%
Peru
358
344
4.1%
2,3
11
2,3
01
0.4%
TOTAL
7,538
7,419
1.6%
55,
67
1
53,
93
1
3.2%
(1) Preliminary data on 750 flights at Brasilia Airport, due to delays in the submission of information by third parties.
Cargo Volume (tons)
Argentina
17,247
17,386
-0.8%
14
6,4
45
15
1,8
81
-3.6%
Italy
827
695
19.1%
8,4
94
7,4
69
13.7%
Brazil
6,823
5,439
25.4%
62,
50
5
40,
78
7
53.2%
Uruguay
1,980
2,044
-3.1%
16,
92
3
17,
53
2
-3.5%
Ecuador
2,933
3,168
-7.4%
27,
04
4
26,
95
1
0.3%
Armenia
1,773
2,039
-13.0%
11,
11,
2.4%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.6% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in August 2019 
Passenger traffic up 9.0% YoY in Argentina and 15.0% in Ar....
60
6
33
6
Peru
540
428
26.1%
3,3
40
3,1
93
4.6%
TOTAL
32,123
31,199
3.0%
27
6,3
57
25
9,1
48
6.6%
Aircraft Movements
Argentina
39,702
40,494
-2.0%
30
1,7
37
29
8,6
59
1.0%
Italy
8,379
8,467
-1.0%
53,
58
3
53,
04
9
1.0%
Brazil
13,370
15,809
-15.4%
10
6,0
54
12
3,3
76
-14.0%
Uruguay
2,084
2,362
-11.8%
20,
07
1
22,
87
1
-12.2%
Ecuador
7,423
7,147
3.9%
55,
10
2
52,
14
1
5.7%
Armenia
3,221
2,504
28.6%
17,
63
6
15,
88
6
11.0%
Peru
2,894
3,141
-7.9%
20,
16
5
21,
66
6
-6.9%
TOTAL
77,073
79,924
-3.6%
57
4,3
48
58
7,6
48
-2.3%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.6% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in August 2019 
Passenger traffic up 9.0% YoY in Argentina and 15.0% in Ar....
To 
obtain 
the 
full 
text 
of 
this 
press 
release, 
please 
click 
on 
the 
following 
link: 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com
About Corporación América Airports
Corporación América Airports acquires, develops and operates airport concessions. The Company is the largest 
private airport operator in the world by the number of airports and the tenth largest based on passenger traffic. 
Currently, the Company operates 52 airports in 7 countries across Latin America and Europe (Argentina, Brazil, 
Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador, Armenia and Italy). In 2018, Corporación América Airports served 81.3 million 
passengers. The Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange where it trades under the ticker "CAAP". For 
more information, visit http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190919005945/en/
CONTACT: Investor Relations Contact
Gimena Albanesi
Email: gimena.albanesi@caairports.com
Phone: +5411 4852-6411
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 20, 2019
End of Document
Global Pilots Disturbed by Anti-Union Trend
Global Pilots Disturbed by Anti-Union Trend
Business Wire
September 16, 2019 Monday 2:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 515 words
Dateline: MONTREAL 
Body
Issued from the Professional & Government Affairs Committee of the International Federation of Air Line Pilots' 
Associations (IFALPA):
IFALPA's industrial branch is deeply concerned regarding the trend of anti-labour action being waged against pilot 
groups worldwide. Instances of escalating attacks and retaliation against union representatives for exercising their 
fundamental right to organize and strike have taken the form of investigation, disciplinary procedure, contract 
termination, and legal threats and actions.
An ongoing example is that of the Colombian Pilots' Union (Acdac) and Avianca Airlines Management. For the past 
two years, Acdac's pilot representatives have faced an onslaught of discrimination, beginning with mass 
terminations and culminating in multiple personal criminal charges, all based upon exercising their legal right to 
strike.
In today's news, Ryanair pilot representatives are being singled out for threatening and intimidating behaviour by 
airline management all over Europe. Ryanair Irish company council representatives are being sued by Ryanair for 
their legitimate, lawful representative activities. This is deplorable behaviour coming from any company, particularly 
one that claims to engage with unions in the spirit of pursuing normal social dialogue.
Meanwhile, British Airways Management has attempted to strip their pilots of their legal right to strike with court 
challenges and has pursued other punitive actions against the pilot group and union representatives in the days 
leading up to, and following, strike action.
IFALPA unequivocally supports the right of pilot groups to take industrial action when negotiations fail. The 
Federation believes that no pilot group should accept deteriorating salary and working conditions, unpredictable 
hours, a lack of job security, or the lack of a fair and equitable collective labour agreement. Pilot unions have 
demonstrated that they are responsible and fair partners with management in times of economic crisis and industry 
turmoil and they expect and demand that airline management be responsible and fair partners when those airlines 
are enjoying an unprecedented period of profitability.
The Federation offers support, mutual assistance, and all other available resources to our Member Associations in 
order to address this disturbing trend on a global scale. The global voice of pilots will not stay silent on this issue.
Global Pilots Disturbed by Anti-Union Trend
Note to Editors: The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations represents more than 100,000 pilots in 
nearly 100 countries around the globe. The mission of IFALPA is to promote the highest level of aviation safety 
worldwide and to be the global advocate of the piloting profession; providing representation, services and support to 
both our members and the aviation industry.
Federation website www.ifalpa.org
©2019 The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations. It may not be offered for sale or used 
commercially. All reprints must credit IFALPA.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190916005593/en/
CONTACT: Emily Bitting, IFALPA Senior Communications Specialist, emilybitting@ifalpa.org, +1 514 419 1191 ext. 
228
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 17, 2019
End of Document
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.4% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in July 2019
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.4% YoY Increase in Total 
Passenger Traffic in July 2019
Business Wire
August 15, 2019 Thursday 11:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1122 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
Corporación América Airports S.A. (NYSE: CAAP), ("CAAP" or the "Company") the largest private sector airport 
operator in the world by number of airports, reported today preliminary year-over-year passenger traffic growth of 
1.4% in July 2019.
Passenger Traffic Overview
Passenger traffic up 8.5% YoY in Argentina and 16.2% in Armenia, partially offset by declines in Brazil, Italy and 
Uruguay
Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements 
Highlights
Statistics
Jul
'19
Jul
'18
% 
Va
r.
YT
D'
19
YT
D'
18
%
 
V
a
r
Domestic Passengers (thousands)
4,5
04
4,3
20
4.3
%
27,
16
5
25,
12
8
8
.
1
%
International Passengers (thousands)
2,6
17
2,6
00
0.6
%
15,
98
7
16,
18
5
-
1
.
2
%
Transit Passengers (thousands)
78
3
87
6
-
10.
6%
4,9
81
5,1
98
-
4
.
2
%
Total Passengers (thousands)
7,9
04
7,7
95
1.4
%
48,
13
4
46,
51
1
3
.
5
%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.4% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in July 2019
Cargo Volume (thousand tons)
34.
8
31.
2
11.
4%
24
4.2
22
7.9
7
.
1
%
Total Aircraft Movements (thousands)
77.
7
78.
8
-
1.4
%
49
7.3
50
7.7
-
2
.
1
%
Total passenger traffic in July 2019 increased 1.4% YoY primarily reflecting growth of 8.5% in Argentina and 16.2% 
in Armenia, partially offset by declines in Brazil and Italy.
In Argentina, total passenger traffic increased 8.5% YoY, reflecting growth of 12.2% in domestic passengers as a 
result of the continued good performance of new routes by existing and new airlines introduced during 2018 and 
2019, together with a mix-shift to domestic from international travel by local passengers. International passenger 
traffic declined 1.5%, still reflecting weak macro conditions in the country. Of note, passenger traffic at Bariloche 
Airport increased 19.2% driven by higher domestic and international traffic during the winter season, while traffic at 
Iguazú and Salta airports increased 33.4% and 27.3%, respectively, mainly reflecting the operation of low cost 
carriers. In addition, Norwegian Air Argentina announced a new domestic route to Jujuy, starting September, further 
enhancing connectivity in the country.
In Italy, passenger traffic declined 3.9% YoY, reflecting a drop of 6.4% in passenger traffic at Pisa Airport, mainly 
due to the reduction of operations by Pobeda, which suspended the route to Saint Petersburg and decreased 
frequencies to Moscow, coupled with a reduction of flights by Ryanair and British Airways. This was partially offset 
by growth of 1.8% at Florence Airport, reflecting additional flights to Madrid, Spain, by Iberia together with the good 
performance of SAS's flight to Copenhagen introduced last April. Moreover, a new international flight to Dusseldorf, 
Germany, by Eurowings also contributed to the increase.
In Brazil, passenger traffic declined 11.5%, primarily reflecting the cessation of operations by a local airline. 
Domestic passengers declined 8.4% while international passengers increased 5.8% according to the new 
methodology introduced by ANAC. In addition, Gol announced additional domestic routes, from Brasilia airport to 
São José do Rio Preto, Araguaína and Barreiras, starting September 2019 in partnership with Passaredo, in line 
with its strategy to expand operations at Brasilia Airport. Moreover, Natal Airport will receive additional flights by 
Latam Airlines Brasil to São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, starting in August, together with additional flights by Azul 
Airlines to Recife, starting next September.
In Uruguay, passenger traffic declined 5.8% YoY, reflecting the cancellation of Avianca Colombia's daily route to 
Bogotá, Colombia, combined with a decline in flights to Aeroparque, Argentina, given the continued weak macro 
environment in that country. In addition, in July we faced more difficult comps as Winter Holidays this year started in 
June, while last year they started in July.
In Armenia, total passenger traffic increased 16.2%, benefiting from the addition of several new routes and 
frequencies during 2018 and 2019, further supported by additional flights added during the summer season.
In Ecuador, total passenger traffic increased 3.3%, mainly reflecting new flights by Jet Blue and Aeroméxico started 
earlier this year. However, Aeroméxico recently announced that it will discontinue this route starting October 2019. 
Traffic growth was also driven by the new route by Plus Ultra to Madrid, Spain, opened during July 2019. In 
addition, low-cost carrier Interjet announced a new route connecting Guayaquil Airport with Ciudad de México, 
México, to be started in October this year. Moreover, Jet Blue announced the opening of a direct route to New York, 
United States, operating from Guayaquil Airport, starting next December.
Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Cargo volume increased 11.4% in July 2019, mainly as a result a 49.1% increase in Brazil, and further supported by 
growth across most other countries of operations, partially offset by an 8.9% decline in Ecuador.
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.4% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in July 2019
Aircraft movements decreased 1.4% in July 2019, mainly as a result of declines of a 12.8% decline in Brazil.
Summary Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft 
Movements
Jul
'19
Jul
'18
% 
Va
r.
YT
D'
19
YT
D'
18
% 
Va
r
Passenger Traffic (thousands)
Argentina
3,9
98
3,6
83
8.5
%
24,
87
2
22,
75
7
9.3
%
Italy
88
8
92
5
-
3.9
%
4,6
67
4,6
82
-
0.3
%
Brazil
1,7
44
1,9
71
-
11.
5%
10,
99
7
11,
68
6
-
5.9
%
Uruguay
17
5
18
6
-
5.8
%
1,3
17
1,3
81
-
4.6
%
Ecuador
40
5
39
2
3.3
%
2,6
35
2,5
23
4.5
%
Armenia
37
2
32
0
16.
2%
1,6
92
1,5
26
10.
9%
Peru
32
2
31
8
1.1
%
1,9
53
1,9
57
-
0.2
%
TOTAL
7,9
04
7,7
95
1.4
%
48,
13
4
46,
51
1
3.5
%
Cargo Volume (tons)
Argentina
18,
35
6
17,
45
2
5.2
%
12
9,1
99
13
4,4
95
-
3.9
%
Italy
1,1
59
1,0
88
6.5
%
7,6
67
6,7
74
13.
2%
Brazil
8,3
02
5,5
67
49.
1%
55,
68
2
35,
34
8
57.
5%
Uruguay
2,0
00
1,9
37
3.3
%
14,
94
3
15,
48
8
-
3.5
%
Ecuador
2,9
62
3,2
50
-
8.9
%
24,
11
2
23,
78
3
1.4
%
Armenia
1,5
39
1,4
98
2.7
%
9,8
33
9,2
97
5.8
%
Peru
43
8
40
6
7.8
%
2,7
99
2,7
64
1.3
%
TOTAL
34,
75
5
31,
19
9
11.
4%
24
4,2
34
22
7,9
49
7.1
%
Aircraft Movements
Argentina
40,
10
8
38,
82
8
3.3
%
26
2,0
35
25
8,1
65
1.5
%
Italy
8,6
08
8,6
52
-
0.5
45,
20
44,
58
1.4
%
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 1.4% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in July 2019
%
4
2
Brazil
14,
30
9
16,
41
1
-
12.
8%
92,
68
4
10
7,5
67
-
13.
8%
Uruguay
2,1
36
2,4
39
-
12.
4%
17,
98
7
20,
50
9
-
12.
3%
Ecuador
6,7
39
6,9
54
-
3.1
%
47,
67
9
44,
99
4
6.0
%
Armenia
3,0
40
2,4
31
25.
1%
14,
41
5
13,
38
2
7.7
%
Peru
2,7
36
3,0
83
-
11.
3%
17,
27
1
18,
52
5
-
6.8
%
TOTAL
77,
67
6
78,
79
8
-
1.4
%
49
7,2
75
50
7,7
24
-
2.1
%
To 
obtain 
the 
full 
text 
of 
this 
press 
release, 
please 
click 
on 
the 
following 
link: 
http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com
About Corporación América Airports
Corporación América Airports acquires, develops and operates airport concessions. The Company is the largest 
private airport operator in the world by the number of airports and the tenth largest based on passenger traffic. 
Currently, the Company operates 52 airports in 7 countries across Latin America and Europe (Argentina, Brazil, 
Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador, Armenia and Italy). In 2018, Corporación América Airports served 81.3 million 
passengers. The Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange where it trades under the ticker "CAAP". For 
more information, visit http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190815005712/en/
CONTACT: Investor Relations Contact
Gimena Albanesi
Email: gimena.albanesi@caairports.com
Phone: +5411 4852-6411
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 16, 2019
End of Document
Swrve Named a Leader in 2019 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Mobile Marketing Platforms; Swrve Named Leader 
for Second Consecutive Year; Evaluation Based on Complete....
Swrve Named a Leader in 2019 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Mobile Marketing 
Platforms; Swrve Named Leader for Second Consecutive Year; Evaluation 
Based on Completeness of Vision and Ability to Execute
Business Wire
July 17, 2019 Wednesday 4:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 638 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
Swrve , the world leader in real-time, relevant customer engagement, today announced it has been positioned by 
Gartner, Inc. as a Leader in the 2019            Magic Quadrant for Mobile Marketing Platforms 1. Swrve was one of 
18 vendors evaluated in the report. This is the second consecutive year that Swrve has been placed in the Leaders 
quadrant.
Swrve is a real-time marketing and customer engagement platform that enables the world's largest brands to scale 
communications to millions of customers, and meet the exact needs of each customer wherever they are, and 
regardless of channel. Swrve's real-time relevant engine allows marketing, customer success, and business 
intelligence departments to process highly granular and contextual customer data, including geo-location, media 
and streaming preferences, and app usage. Leading brands rely on Swrve for a full picture of relevant customer 
experiences, engagement, revenue and loyalty, including Ryanair, Emirates, Condé Nast, NETGEAR, Mastercard, 
Sony Pictures Television, The Movember Foundation, Playrix, and more.
"We are very proud to be recognized as a Leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Mobile Marketing Platforms for 
the second consecutive year. Swrve believes that our placement in the Leaders quadrant is a testament of our 
mobile marketing platform's strength and scale and importantly, how Swrve directly enables the world's leading 
brands to create competitive advantage and measurable business value by delivering real-time relevance," said 
Tom Aitchison, CEO of Swrve. "In the new experience economy Swrve helps the world's leading brands to truly 
connect, engage, and retain customers, ultimately translating to measurable business outcomes-including higher 
purchase completion rates, user conversions, increased retention, revenue per engagement, and other valuable 
performance metrics."
The evaluation criteria for completeness of vision includes market understanding, marketing strategy, sales 
strategy, offering (product) strategy, business model, vertical/industry strategy, innovation and geographic strategy. 
Criteria for a vendor's ability to execute includes evaluating the product or service, overall viability, sales 
execution/pricing, market responsiveness/record, marketing execution, customer experience, and operations.
Swrve Named a Leader in 2019 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Mobile Marketing Platforms; Swrve Named Leader 
for Second Consecutive Year; Evaluation Based on Complete....
A complimentary copy of Gartner's Magic Quadrant for Mobile Marketing Platforms is available here , and a blog 
post can be viewed            here .
1Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Mobile Marketing Platforms, Mike McGuire, Charles Golvin, 15 July 2019
Gartner Disclaimer
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise 
technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research 
publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements 
of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any 
warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
About Swrve
Swrve is the only true enterprise-grade, marketing and customer engagement platform that helps the world's 
leading brands confidently scale communications over millions of customers, delivering dynamic data and AI driven 
interactions that are optimized for relevance in real time. Swrve's customers create real-time relevance in their 
customer engagements to achieve business results 3x faster and profit growth 200x faster than the S&P 500. 
Swrve is currently installed in 3.5 billion apps worldwide and processes 14 billion events daily. Learn more at 
https://www.swrve.com or follow @Swrve_Inc on Twitter.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190717005627/en/
CONTACT: Carley Fowler
carley@gravitatepr.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 18, 2019
End of Document
2019 Tourism Source Market Insight: Scandinavia - Featuring TUI, Apollo, Ryanair, American Airlines, 
Booking.com - ResearchAndMarkets.com
2019 Tourism Source Market Insight: Scandinavia - Featuring TUI, Apollo, 
Ryanair, American Airlines, Booking.com - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
July 9, 2019 Tuesday 10:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 480 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Tourism Source Market Insight: Scandinavia" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
Tourism Source Market Insight: Scandinavia provides a thorough insight into Scandinavia's domestic and outbound 
tourism market. The report looks at the profiles of Scandinavian tourists and summarizes the key reasons that they 
travel.
The report provides an in-depth analysis of traveler flows, spending patterns, main destination markets, as well as 
current and future opportunities for tourism businesses seeking to tap into the Scandinavian outbound travel 
market.
Scope
•
Scandinavian expenditure on outbound tourism is growing at an expansive rate. Total international 
expenditure grew from US$57.5bn in 2017 to US$63.4bn in 2018.
•
In terms of frequency, domestic tourism is significantly stronger than international tourism. Total outbound 
trips stand at 50.5 million.
•
Scandinavians between the age of 50 and 64 are taking the most holidays with 41.9 million international 
and domestic trips being taken in 2018. Scandinavian tourists in the 35 to 49 age group are in the quickest 
growing market segment.
Reasons to Buy
•
This report provides clear insight into developments in Scandinavia's domestic and outbound tourism 
markets.
•
The report uses data and analysis to discuss future trends related to domestic trips, international 
departures, traveler spending, and main destination markets.
•
The report explores the different profiles of Scandinavian tourists and the reasons that they travel, hence 
providing an insight into the trends in different segments of the market.
2019 Tourism Source Market Insight: Scandinavia - Featuring TUI, Apollo, Ryanair, American Airlines, 
Booking.com - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
The reader gains a strong understanding of the opportunities in the region, as well as the risks, to support 
better business decisions.
Companies Mentioned
•
TUI
•
Apollo
•
Ryanair
•
American Airlines
•
Booking.com
Key Topics Covered
•
Overview
•
Region Snapshot 2018
•
At a glance: The Scandinavian tourist market in 2018
•
Risks to outbound Scandinavian tourism
•
Main findings
•
Tourists profile
•
Which types of holiday do Scandinavians take?
•
Which factors motivate Scandinavians when choosing a holiday?
•
Where do Scandinavians plan on travelling to in the next 12 months?
•
Insight in to Scandinavian tourists
•
Domestic tourism
•
Domestic flows
•
Domestic spending
•
Outbound tourism
•
Outbound flows
•
Outbound spending
•
Main and developing destinations
•
Where did Scandinavians travel to in 2018?
•
Main destinations
•
Developing destinations
•
Outlook
•
Opportunities to attract Scandinavian tourism
•
Appendix
•
References
•
Terminology and definitions
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/4r6ca9
2019 Tourism Source Market Insight: Scandinavia - Featuring TUI, Apollo, Ryanair, American Airlines, 
Booking.com - ResearchAndMarkets.com
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190709005422/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
Related Topics: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 10, 2019
End of Document
MEDIA ALERT: Swrve CTO Oisin Hurley to Speak at Ireland Travel Tech Summit Mobile marketing platform 
leader to discuss how global travel tech brands use AI tech....
MEDIA ALERT: Swrve CTO Oisin Hurley to Speak at Ireland Travel Tech 
Summit; Mobile marketing platform leader to discuss how global travel tech 
brands use AI technology to create meaningful experiences across millions 
of customers in real time
Business Wire
April 17, 2019 Wednesday 4:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 295 words
Dateline: CORK, Ireland 
Body
Swrve , the global leader in real-time, relevant customer engagement, today announced that Chief Technology 
Officer Oisin Hurley will be presenting at the Travel Tech Summit about "How Deep Tech is Shaping Customers." 
As part of this panel discussion, organized by the Irish Strategic Investment Fund (ISIF), Oisin will be discussing 
how globally recognized brands in the travel industry including Ireland's largest commercial airline, RyanAir use 
artificial intelligence to create meaningful experiences across millions of customers in real time.
Event Details:
Date: April 17, 1:30 PM GMT
Venue: Hayfield Manor, Cork, Ireland
Panelists:
•
John Byrnes, Founder/Co-CEO, Ai Collaborator
•
Paul Buckley, Head of Social Media, Aer Lingus
•
Oisin Hurley, CTO, Swrve
Moderator: Mark Lenahan, Head of Air and Rail, Travelport Digital
About Swrve
Swrve is the marketing and customer engagement platform that helps leading brands confidently scale 
communications over millions of customers in real time. A Gartner Magic Quadrant for Mobile Marketing Platforms 
leader, Swrve is currently installed in 3.5 billion apps worldwide and processes 14 billion events daily. Learn more 
at https://www.swrve.com or follow            @Swrve_inc on Twitter.
MEDIA ALERT: Swrve CTO Oisin Hurley to Speak at Ireland Travel Tech Summit Mobile marketing platform 
leader to discuss how global travel tech brands use AI tech....
About ISIF
The Ireland Strategic Investment Fund, managed and controlled by the National Treasury Management Agency 
(NTMA), is an (EURO)8.9 billion sovereign development fund with a unique mandate. ISIF has a statutory mandate 
to invest on a commercial basis in a manner designed to support economic activity and employment in Ireland. The 
fund's predecessor was the National Pensions Reserve Fund (NPRF).
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190417005729/en/
CONTACT: Alex Dickel
Gravitate PR for Swrve
alex@gravitatepr.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 18, 2019
End of Document
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 4.0% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in January 2019 
Passenger traffic up 6.5% YoY in Argentina and 2.9% in It....
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 4.0% YoY Increase in Total 
Passenger Traffic in January 2019; Passenger traffic up 6.5% YoY in 
Argentina and 2.9% in Italy, further supported by growth across most 
geographies
Business Wire
February 14, 2019 Thursday 10:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 1009 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
Corporación América Airports S.A. (NYSE:CAAP), ("CAAP" or the "Company") the largest private sector airport 
operator in the world by number of airports, reported today preliminary year-over-year passenger traffic growth of 
4.0% in January 2019.
Passenger Traffic Overview
Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements Highlights
 
 
Statistics
 
Jan'19
 
Jan'18
 
% Chg.
Domestic Passengers (thousands)
 
4,006
 
3,661
 
9.4%
International Passengers 
(thousands)
 
2,320
 
2,363
 
-1.8%
Transit Passengers (thousands)
 
869
 
897
 
-3.2%
Total Passengers (thousands)
 
7,195
 
6,921
 
4.0%
Cargo Volume (thousand tons)
 
32.8
 
31.7
 
3.4%
Total Aircraft Movements 
(thousands)
 
74.7
 
74.6
 
0.1%
Total passenger traffic in January 2019 increased by 4.0% YoY, primarily reflecting growth of 6.5% in Argentina, 
2.9% in Italy and 12.3% in Armenia.
In Argentina, total passenger traffic increased 6.5% YoY, mainly driven by 15.5% growth in domestic passengers, 
benefiting from the launch of new routes and addition of new airlines during 2018. This was partially offset by 
declines of 5.3% and 5.6% in international and transit passengers, respectively, which continue to reflect 
challenging macro conditions. International traffic in Argentina, however, posted an improvement from prior months 
as foreign tourism increased, combined with pre-sales of air travel tickets that took place before the peso 
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 4.0% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in January 2019 
Passenger traffic up 6.5% YoY in Argentina and 2.9% in It....
devaluation along with installment sales offered by some airlines. In addition, Norwegian Air Argentina opened a 
new domestic route to Salta in January 2019, adding to its five other domestic routes. Moreover, JetSmart airlines 
announced it will begin domestic operations in April 2019, starting with the launch of flights to Córdoba, Mendoza, 
Neuquén and Salta.
In Italy, passenger traffic rose 2.9%, driven by an increase of 4.4% in Pisa Airport mainly related to the addition of 
frequencies by Ryanair, including the opening of a new route to Prague operated three times a week, and flights by 
Pobeda to Moscow. In Florence Airport, passenger traffic remained relatively flat, affected by adverse weather 
conditions, which led to several re-routed or cancelled flights, offsetting the good performance of TAP's connection 
to Lisbon and the addition of three weekly flights to Madrid by Iberia.
In Brazil, total passenger traffic remained flat with domestic traffic increasing 4.2%, offset by a decline in 
international traffic mainly as a result of the change in methodology in traffic count by ANAC. Domestic traffic 
growth in Brasilia Airport slowed down to 3.7% from 7.1% in December, impacted by a reduction in less profitable 
routes and frequencies by LATAM Airlines as it seeks to optimize operations, and a decline of approximately 20% in 
seat supply at Avianca Brasil. By contrast, Gol recently announced the expansion of its operations at Brasilia Airport 
that contemplates the launch of new domestic flights throughout the first half of the year. International traffic at 
Brasilia Airport declined 12.1% impacted by the new methodology in traffic count applied since June 2018 as 
discussed above. This more than offset traffic growth resulting from the continued good performance of routes to 
Miami and Orlando opened by Gol Airlines in November and the addition of a new direct flight to Buenos Aires 
during December. Based on the prior methodology, international traffic would have increased 25.5% YoY at this 
airport.
In Ecuador, passenger traffic increased 6.9%, with international passenger traffic at Guayaquil Airport up 9.7%, 
mainly attributed to the continued good performance of the Spirit Airlines flight to Fort Lauderdale introduced in 
March 2018 and the increase in frequencies by COPA Airlines. In addition, Aeromexico announced the launch of a 
new route from Ciudad de México, starting in May with three weekly flights.
In Armenia, passenger traffic increased 12.3% still reflecting strong travel trends from 2018. The launch of new 
routes in October by Azimuth, serving three Russian destinations, also contributed to passenger traffic growth.
Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
Cargo volume increased 3.4% in January 2019 mainly as a result a 34.5% increase in Brazil, mainly related to an 
increase in exports, offset by a decline of 4.1% in Argentina, related to the continued challenging macroeconomic 
conditions.
Aircraft movements remained flat in January 2019, mainly as a result of increases of 2.4% in Argentina and 14.8% 
in Ecuador, partially offset by a 6.9% decline in Brazil.
Summary Passenger Traffic, Cargo Volume and Aircraft Movements
 
 
 
 
Jan'19
 
Jan'18
 
% Chg.
Passenger Traffic (thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Argentina
 
3,808
 
3,576
 
6.5%
Italy
 
460
 
447
 
2.9%
Brazil
 
1,866
 
1,853
 
0.7%
Uruguay
 
247
 
259
 
-4.6%
Ecuador
 
353
 
330
 
6.9%
Armenia
 
212
 
189
 
12.3%
Peru
 
249
 
268
 
-7.1%
TOTAL
 
7,195
 
6,921
 
4.0%
 
 
 
Corporación América Airports S.A. Reports 4.0% YoY Increase in Total Passenger Traffic in January 2019 
Passenger traffic up 6.5% YoY in Argentina and 2.9% in It....
Cargo Volume (tons)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Argentina
 
18,845
 
19,644
 
-4.1%
Italy
 
1,027
 
886
 
16.0%
Brazil
 
6,042
 
4,493
 
34.5%
Uruguay
 
1,909
 
2,019
 
-5.4%
Ecuador
 
3,733
 
3,389
 
10.1%
Armenia
 
859
 
892
 
-3.7%
Peru
 
370
 
387
 
-4.6%
TOTAL
 
32,784
 
31,710
 
3.4%
 
Aircraft Movements
 
 
 
 
 
 
Argentina
 
40,140
 
39,185
 
2.4%
Italy
 
4,644
 
4,533
 
2.4%
Brazil
 
14,670
 
15,753
 
-6.9%
Uruguay
 
3,941
 
4,535
 
-13.1%
Ecuador
 
7,154
 
6,230
 
14.8%
Armenia
 
1,948
 
1,739
 
12.0%
Peru
 
2,164
 
2,609
 
-17.1%
TOTAL
 
74,661
 
74,584
 
0.1%
About Corporación América Airports
Corporación América Airports acquires, develops and operates airport concessions. The Company is the largest 
private airport operator in the world by the number of airports and the tenth largest based on passenger traffic. 
Currently, the Company operates 52 airports in 7 countries across Latin America and Europe (Argentina, Brazil, 
Uruguay, Peru, Ecuador, Armenia and Italy). In 2018, Corporación América Airports served 81.3 million 
passengers. The Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange where it trades under the ticker "CAAP". For 
more information, visit http://investors.corporacionamericaairports.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190214005905/en/
CONTACT: Investor Relations ContactGimena AlbanesiEmail: gimena.albanesi@caairports.comPhone: +5411 
4852-6411
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 15, 2019
End of Document
RYANAIR 24 HOUR DEADLINE ALERT: Approximately 24 Hours Remain; ClaimsFiler Reminds Investors with 
Losses in Excess of $100,000 of Deadline in Class Action Lawsu....
RYANAIR 24 HOUR DEADLINE ALERT: Approximately 24 Hours Remain; 
ClaimsFiler Reminds Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 of 
Deadline in Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc - RYAAY
Business Wire
January 6, 2019 Sunday 3:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 342 words
Dateline: NEW ORLEANS 
Body
ClaimsFiler, a FREE shareholder information service, reminds investors that they have only until January 7, 2019 to 
file lead plaintiff applications in a securities class action lawsuit against Ryanair Holdings plc (NasdaqGS: RYAAY). 
Investor losses must relate to purchases of the Company's American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") between May 30, 
2017 and September 28, 2018. This action is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York.
Get Help
Ryanair investors should visit us at https://www.claimsfiler.com/cases/view-ryanair-holdings-plc-securities-litigation 
or call toll-free (844) 367-9658. Lawyers at Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC are available to discuss your legal options.
About the Lawsuit
On October 1, 2018, the Company disclosed that, contrary to its prior statements, worsening labor relations had 
continued to negatively affect its performance causing strikes and flight cancellations that resulted in increased 
costs such that it was unable to meet its annual profit guidance. On this news, the price of Ryanair's ADSs 
plummeted.
The case is City of Birmingham Firemen's and Policemen's Supplemental Pension System v. Ryanair Holdings plc., 
et al., 18-cv-10330.
About ClaimsFiler
ClaimsFiler has a single mission: to serve as the information source to help retail investors recover their share of 
billions of dollars from securities class action settlements. At ClaimsFiler.com, investors can: (1) register for free to 
gain access to information and settlement websites for various securities class action cases so they can timely 
submit their own claims; (2) upload their portfolio transactional data to be notified about relevant securities cases in 
RYANAIR 24 HOUR DEADLINE ALERT: Approximately 24 Hours Remain; ClaimsFiler Reminds Investors with 
Losses in Excess of $100,000 of Deadline in Class Action Lawsu....
which they may have a financial interest; and (3) submit inquiries to the Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC law firm for free 
case evaluations.
To learn more about ClaimsFiler, visit www.claimsfiler.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190106005042/en/
CONTACT: ClaimsFilerJerry Gallo, 844-367-9658 https://www.claimsfiler.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 7, 2019
End of Document
RYANAIR 72 HOUR DEADLINE ALERT: Approximately 72 Hours Remain; Former Louisiana Attorney General 
and Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC Remind Investors with Losses in Exce....
RYANAIR 72 HOUR DEADLINE ALERT: Approximately 72 Hours Remain; 
Former Louisiana Attorney General and Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC Remind 
Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 of Deadline in Class Action 
Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc - RYAAY
Business Wire
January 4, 2019 Friday 3:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 385 words
Dateline: NEW ORLEANS 
Body
Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC ("KSF") and KSF partner, the former Attorney General of Louisiana, Charles C. Foti, Jr., 
remind investors with large financial interests that they have only until January 7, 2019 to file lead plaintiff 
applications in a securities class action lawsuit against Ryanair Holdings plc (NasdaqGS: RYAAY). Investor losses 
must relate to purchases of the Company's American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") between May 30, 2017 and 
September 28, 2018. This action is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
What You May Do
If you purchased ADSs of Ryanair and would like to discuss your legal rights and how this case might affect you 
and your right to recover for your economic loss, you may, without obligation or cost to you, contact KSF Managing 
Partner Lewis Kahn toll-free at 1-877-515-1850 or via email ( lewis.kahn@ksfcounsel.com ), or visit            
https://www.ksfcounsel.com/cases/nasdaqgs-ryaay/ to learn more. If you wish to serve as a lead plaintiff in this 
class action by overseeing lead counsel with the goal of obtaining a fair and just resolution, you must request this 
position by application to the Court by January 7, 2019.
About the Lawsuit
On October 1, 2018, the Company disclosed that, contrary to its prior statements, worsening labor relations had 
continued to negatively affect its performance causing strikes and flight cancellations that resulted in increased 
costs such that it was unable to meet its annual profit guidance. On this news, the price of Ryanair's ADSs 
plummeted.
The case is City of Birmingham Firemen's and Policemen's Supplemental Pension System v. Ryanair Holdings plc., 
et al., 18-cv-10330.
About Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC
RYANAIR 72 HOUR DEADLINE ALERT: Approximately 72 Hours Remain; Former Louisiana Attorney General 
and Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC Remind Investors with Losses in Exce....
KSF, whose partners include the former Louisiana Attorney General Charles C. Foti, Jr., is a law firm focused on 
securities, antitrust and consumer class actions, along with merger & acquisition and breach of fiduciary litigation 
against publicly traded companies on behalf of shareholders. The firm has offices in New York, California and 
Louisiana.
To learn more about KSF, you may visit www.ksfcounsel.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190104005533/en/
CONTACT: Kahn Swick & Foti, LLCLewis Kahn, Managing Partnerlewis.kahn@ksfcounsel.com1-877-515-1850
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 5, 2019
End of Document
DEADLINE MONDAY ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces it is Investigating Claims Against Ryanair 
Holdings plc and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $....
DEADLINE MONDAY ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces it is 
Investigating Claims Against Ryanair Holdings plc and Encourages 
Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 to Contact the Firm
Business Wire
January 4, 2019 Friday 4:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Writers
Length: 374 words
Dateline: LOS ANGELES 
Body
The Schall Law Firm , a national shareholder rights litigation firm, announces that it is investigating claims on behalf 
of investors of Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or "the Company") (NASDAQ:            RYAAY ) for violations of 
§§10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission.
The investigation focuses on whether the Company issued false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to 
disclose information pertinent to investors. Ryanair's labor relations continued to worsen throughout the summer of 
2018, despite the Company claiming that it had improved the situation. Ryanair admitted on July 23, 2018, that 
profits had dipped 20% due to a 34% increase in staffing costs. The Company revealed on October 1, 2018, that 
strikes and flight cancellations affecting hundreds of thousands of customers caused cost increases to the point that 
the Company could not meet its profit projections. Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were 
false and materially misleading throughout the class period. When the market learned the truth about Ryanair, 
investors suffered damages.
If you are a shareholder who suffered a loss, click here to participate .
We also encourage you to contact Brian Schall, or Sherin Mahdavian, of the Schall Law Firm, 1880 Century Park 
East, Suite 404, Los Angeles, CA 90067, at 424-303-1964, to discuss your rights free of charge. You can also 
reach us through the firm's website at  www.schallfirm.com , or by email at             brian@schallfirm.com .
The class in this case has not yet been certified, and until certification occurs, you are not represented by an 
attorney. If you choose to take no action, you can remain an absent class member.
The Schall Law Firm represents investors around the world and specializes in securities class action lawsuits and 
shareholder rights litigation.
DEADLINE MONDAY ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces it is Investigating Claims Against Ryanair 
Holdings plc and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $....
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and rules 
of ethics.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190104005377/en/
CONTACT: The Schall Law FirmBrian Schall, Esq. Sherin Mahdavian, Esq. 310-301-3335 info@schallfirm.com 
www.schallfirm.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 5, 2019
End of Document
Deadline Alert: The Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Reminds Investors of Looming Deadline in the Class 
Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc
Deadline Alert: The Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Reminds Investors of 
Looming Deadline in the Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc
Business Wire
January 4, 2019 Friday 2:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 486 words
Dateline: BENSALEM, Pa. 
Body
Law Offices of Howard G. Smith reminds investors of the January 9, 2019 deadline to file a lead plaintiff motion in 
the class action filed on behalf of investors that purchased Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or the "Company") 
(NASDAQ: RYAAY ) American depositary receipts between May 30, 2017 and September 28, 2018, inclusive (the 
"Class Period"). Ryanair investors have until January 9, 2019 to file a lead plaintiff motion.
Investors suffering losses on their Ryanair investments are encouraged to contact the Law Offices of Howard G. 
Smith 
to 
discuss 
their 
legal 
rights 
in 
this 
class 
action 
at 
888-638-4847 
or 
by 
email 
to 
howardsmith@howardsmithlaw.com .
On September 15, 2017, Ryanair announced that it would need to cancel up to 50 flights a day for the next six 
weeks due to pilot "schedul[ing]" issues, impacting some 315,000 customers. On this news, Ryanair's American 
depositary receipt ("ADR") price fell $7.09, or 6.21%, over three trading sessions, to close at $107.00 on September 
18, 2017, thereby injuring investors.
The complaint filed in this class action alleges that the Company made false and misleading statements to the 
market. Ryanair's labor relations continued to worsen throughout the summer of 2018, despite the Company 
claiming that it had improved the situation. Ryanair admitted on July 23, 2018, that profits had dipped 20% due to a 
34% increase in staffing costs. The Company revealed on October 1, 2018, that strikes and flight cancellations 
affecting hundreds of thousands of customers caused cost increases to the point that the Company could not meet 
its profit projections. Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were false and materially misleading 
throughout the class period.
If you purchased American depositary receipts of Ryanair during the Class Period you may move the Court no later 
than January 9, 2019 to ask the Court to appoint you as lead plaintiff if you meet certain legal requirements. To be a 
member of the Class you need not take any action at this time; you may retain counsel of your choice or take no 
action and remain an absent member of the Class. If you wish to learn more about this action, or if you have any 
questions concerning this announcement or your rights or interests with respect to these matters, please contact 
Howard G. Smith, Esquire, of Law Offices of Howard G. Smith, 3070 Bristol Pike, Suite 112, Bensalem, 
Deadline Alert: The Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Reminds Investors of Looming Deadline in the Class 
Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc
Pennsylvania 19020 by telephone at (215) 638-4847, toll-free at (888) 638-4847, or by email to  
howardsmith@howardsmithlaw.com , or visit our website at             www.howardsmithlaw.com .
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and 
ethical rules.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190104005551/en/
CONTACT: 
Law 
Offices 
of 
Howard 
G. 
SmithHoward 
G. 
Smith, 
Esquire215-638-4847888-638-
4847howardsmith@howardsmithlaw.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 5, 2019
End of Document
RYAAY JAN 7 DEADLINE NOTICE: Rosen Law Firm Reminds Ryanair Holdings plc Investors of Important 
Deadline in Suit Seeking Investor Losses - RYAAY
RYAAY JAN 7 DEADLINE NOTICE: Rosen Law Firm Reminds Ryanair 
Holdings plc Investors of Important Deadline in Suit Seeking Investor 
Losses - RYAAY
Business Wire
January 3, 2019 Thursday 5:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 527 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Rosen Law Firm, a global investor rights law firm, reminds purchasers of the securities of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from May 30, 2017 through September 28, 2018, inclusive (the "Class Period") of the January 
7, 2019 lead plaintiff deadline in the class action. The lawsuit seeks to recover damages for Ryanair investors under 
the federal securities laws.
To join the Ryanair class action, go to https://www.rosenlegal.com/cases-1485.html or call Phillip Kim, Esq. or 
Zachary Halper, Esq. toll-free at 866-767-3653 or email            pkim@rosenlegal.com or            
zhalper@rosenlegal.com for information on the class action.
NO CLASS HAS YET BEEN CERTIFIED IN THE ABOVE ACTION. UNTIL A CLASS IS CERTIFIED, YOU ARE 
NOT REPRESENTED BY COUNSEL UNLESS YOU RETAIN ONE. YOU MAY RETAIN COUNSEL OF YOUR 
CHOICE. YOU MAY ALSO REMAIN AN ABSENT CLASS MEMBER AND DO NOTHING AT THIS POINT. AN 
INVESTOR'S ABILITY TO SHARE IN ANY POTENTIAL FUTURE RECOVERY IS NOT DEPENDENT UPON 
SERVING AS LEAD PLAINTIFF.
According to the lawsuit, defendants throughout the Class Period made false and/or misleading statements and/or 
failed to disclose adverse information concerning Ryanair's aggressive anti-employee practices and opposition to 
employee collectivization efforts. Specifically, the complaint alleges that Ryanair's labor relations had deteriorated in 
2017 and 2018, resulting in increased employee turnover, labor strikes, and other disruptions to its operations, 
which negatively impacted Ryanair's historical operating model and profit growth. When the true details entered the 
market, the lawsuit claims that investors suffered damages.
A class action lawsuit has already been filed. If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you must move the Court no later 
than January 7, 2019. A lead plaintiff is a representative party acting on behalf of other class members in directing 
the litigation. If you wish to join the litigation, go to https://www.rosenlegal.com/cases-1485.html or to discuss your 
rights or interests regarding this class action, please contact Phillip Kim, Esq. or Zachary Halper, Esq. of Rosen 
RYAAY JAN 7 DEADLINE NOTICE: Rosen Law Firm Reminds Ryanair Holdings plc Investors of Important 
Deadline in Suit Seeking Investor Losses - RYAAY
Law Firm toll free at 866-767-3653 or via e-mail at            pkim@rosenlegal.com or            zhalper@rosenlegal.com 
.
Follow us for updates on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/the-rosen-law-firm , on Twitter:            
https://twitter.com/rosen_firm or on Facebook:            https://www.facebook.com/rosenlawfirm/ .
Rosen Law Firm represents investors throughout the globe, concentrating its practice in securities class actions and 
shareholder derivative litigation. Rosen Law Firm was Ranked No. 1 by ISS Securities Class Action Services for 
number of securities class action settlements in 2017. The firm has been ranked in the top 3 each year since 2013. 
Attorney Advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190103005562/en/
CONTACT: Laurence Rosen, Esq.Phillip Kim, Esq.Zachary Halper, Esq.The Rosen Law Firm, P.A.275 Madison 
Avenue, 34th FloorNew York, NY 10016Tel: (212) 686-1060Toll Free: (866) 767-3653Fax: (212) 202-
3827lrosen@rosenlegal.compkim@rosenlegal.comzhalper@rosenlegal.com www.rosenlegal.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 4, 2019
End of Document
EQUITY ALERT: Rosen Law Firm Announces Filing of Securities Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair 
Holdings plc - RYAAY
EQUITY ALERT: Rosen Law Firm Announces Filing of Securities Class 
Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc - RYAAY
Business Wire
December 31, 2018 Monday 3:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 513 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Rosen Law Firm, a global investor rights law firm, announces the filing of a class action lawsuit on behalf of 
purchasers of the securities of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) from May 30, 2017 through September 28, 
2018, inclusive (the "Class Period"). The lawsuit seeks to recover damages for Ryanair investors under the federal 
securities laws.
To join the Ryanair class action, go to https://www.rosenlegal.com/cases-1485.html or call Phillip Kim, Esq. or 
Zachary Halper, Esq. toll-free at 866-767-3653 or email            pkim@rosenlegal.com or            
zhalper@rosenlegal.com for information on the class action.
NO CLASS HAS YET BEEN CERTIFIED IN THE ABOVE ACTION. UNTIL A CLASS IS CERTIFIED, YOU ARE 
NOT REPRESENTED BY COUNSEL UNLESS YOU RETAIN ONE. YOU MAY RETAIN COUNSEL OF YOUR 
CHOICE. YOU MAY ALSO REMAIN AN ABSENT CLASS MEMBER AND DO NOTHING AT THIS POINT. AN 
INVESTOR'S ABILITY TO SHARE IN ANY POTENTIAL FUTURE RECOVERY IS NOT DEPENDENT UPON 
SERVING AS LEAD PLAINTIFF.
According to the lawsuit, defendants throughout the Class Period made false and/or misleading statements and/or 
failed to disclose adverse information concerning Ryanair's aggressive anti-employee practices and opposition to 
employee collectivization efforts. Specifically, the complaint alleges that Ryanair's labor relations had deteriorated in 
2017 and 2018, resulting in increased employee turnover, labor strikes, and other disruptions to its operations, 
which negatively impacted Ryanair's historical operating model and profit growth. When the true details entered the 
market, the lawsuit claims that investors suffered damages.
A class action lawsuit has already been filed. If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you must move the Court no later 
than January 7, 2019. A lead plaintiff is a representative party acting on behalf of other class members in directing 
the litigation. If you wish to join the litigation, go to https://www.rosenlegal.com/cases-1485.html or to discuss your 
rights or interests regarding this class action, please contact Phillip Kim, Esq. or Zachary Halper, Esq. of Rosen 
Law Firm toll free at 866-767-3653 or via e-mail at            pkim@rosenlegal.com or            zhalper@rosenlegal.com 
.
EQUITY ALERT: Rosen Law Firm Announces Filing of Securities Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair 
Holdings plc - RYAAY
Follow us for updates on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/the-rosen-law-firm , on Twitter:            
https://twitter.com/rosen_firm or on Facebook:            https://www.facebook.com/rosenlawfirm/ .
Rosen Law Firm represents investors throughout the globe, concentrating its practice in securities class actions and 
shareholder derivative litigation. Rosen Law Firm was Ranked No. 1 by ISS Securities Class Action Services for 
number of securities class action settlements in 2017. The firm has been ranked in the top 3 each year since 2013.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181231005100/en/
CONTACT: Laurence Rosen, Esq.Phillip Kim, Esq.Zachary Halper, Esq.The Rosen Law Firm, P.A.275 Madison 
Avenue, 34th FloorNew York, NY 10016Tel: (212) 686-1060Toll Free: (866) 767-3653Fax: (212) 202-
3827lrosen@rosenlegal.compkim@rosenlegal.comzhalper@rosenlegal.com www.rosenlegal.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 1, 2019
End of Document
RYANAIR SHAREHOLDER ALERT: ClaimsFiler Reminds Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 of Lead 
Plaintiff Deadline in Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Ho....
RYANAIR SHAREHOLDER ALERT: ClaimsFiler Reminds Investors with 
Losses in Excess of $100,000 of Lead Plaintiff Deadline in Class Action 
Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc - RYAAY
Business Wire
December 14, 2018 Friday 3:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 368 words
Dateline: NEW ORLEANS 
Body
ClaimsFiler, a FREE shareholder information service, reminds investors that they have until January 7, 2019 to file 
lead plaintiff applications in a securities class action lawsuit against Ryanair Holdings plc (NasdaqGS: RYAAY), if 
they purchased the Company's American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") between May 30, 2017 and September 28, 
2018, inclusive (the "Class Period"). This action is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of New York.
Get Help
Ryanair investors should visit us at https://www.claimsfiler.com/cases/view-ryanair-holdings-plc-securities-litigation 
or call toll-free (844) 367-9658. Lawyers at Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC are available to discuss your legal options.
About the Lawsuit
Ryanair and certain of its executives are charged with failing to disclose material information during the Class 
Period, violating federal securities laws.
On October 1, 2018, the Company disclosed that, contrary to its prior statements, worsening labor relations had 
continued to negatively affect its performance causing strikes and flight cancellations that resulted in increased 
costs such that it was unable to meet its annual profit guidance.
On this news, the price of Ryanair's ADSs plummeted.
The case is City of Birmingham Firemen's and Policemen's Supplemental Pension System v. Ryanair Holdings plc., 
et al., 18-cv-10330.
About ClaimsFiler
RYANAIR SHAREHOLDER ALERT: ClaimsFiler Reminds Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 of Lead 
Plaintiff Deadline in Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Ho....
ClaimsFiler has a single mission: to serve as the information source to help retail investors recover their share of 
billions of dollars from securities class action settlements. At ClaimsFiler.com, investors can: (1) register for free to 
gain access to information and settlement websites for various securities class action cases so they can timely 
submit their own claims; (2) upload their portfolio transactional data to be notified about relevant securities cases in 
which they may have a financial interest; and (3) submit inquiries to the Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC law firm for free 
case evaluations.
To learn more about ClaimsFiler, visit www.claimsfiler.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181214005083/en/
CONTACT: ClaimsFilerJerry Gallo, 844-367-9658 https://www.claimsfiler.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 15, 2018
End of Document
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and Capabilities, Including a Custom 
Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 1/18 Scale Autono....
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and 
Capabilities, Including a Custom Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 
1/18 Scale Autonomous Race Car for Developers; New Amazon SageMaker 
capabilities make it easier for customers to build, train, and deploy models; 
SageMaker Ground Truth produces high-quality labeled training data, 
SageMaker RL delivers cloud's first managed service for reinforcement 
learning algorithms and simulators, and a new machine learning 
marketplace offers more than 150 new models and algorithms to developers 
through Amazon SageMaker; AWS DeepRacer, a 1/18th scale autonomous 
racing car, which gets developers rolling with reinforcement learning; 
Amazon Elastic Inference reduces cost of machine learning predictions by 
75%; TensorFlow enhancements and New Amazon EC2 P3dn instances drive 
faster machine learning training; new custom machine learning inference 
chip, AWS Inferentia, will drastically reduce costs; New AI services bring 
intelligence to every app and developer; Amazon Textract extracts text and 
data from virtually any scanned document; Amazon Personalize and 
Amazon Forecast bring the same technology used by Amazon.com to 
developers, with no machine learning experience required; Amazon 
Comprehend Medical provides natural language processing for medical 
information; Initial customers for these services include Adobe, Alfresco, 
BMW, Bristol Myers Squibb, Chick-fil-A, Expedia, Formula 1, Fred Hutch 
Cancer Institute, Intuit, Johnson & Johnson, Lion Foods, Major League 
Baseball, National Football League, Pinterest, Ralph Lauren, Roche 
Pharmaceuticals, Samsung, Shell, Siemens, Snap, Thompson Reuters, T-
Mobile, Tyson Foods, Woolworths, Zendesk, Zocdoc and more
Business Wire
November 28, 2018 Wednesday 7:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 4968 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and Capabilities, Including a Custom 
Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 1/18 Scale Autono....
Today at AWS re:Invent, Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS), an Amazon.com company (NASDAQ: AMZN), 
announced 13 new machine learning capabilities and services, across all layers in the machine learning stack, to 
help put machine learning in the hands of even more developers. AWS introduced new Amazon SageMaker 
features making it easier for developers to build, train, and deploy machine learning models - including low cost, 
automatic data labeling and reinforcement learning (RL). AWS revealed new services, framework enhancements, 
and a custom chip to speed up machine learning training and inference, while reducing cost. AWS announced new 
artificial intelligence (AI) services that can extract text from virtually any document, read medical information, and 
provide customized personalization, recommendations, and forecasts using the same technology used by 
Amazon.com. And, last but certainly not least, AWS will help developers get rolling with machine learning with AWS 
DeepRacer, a new 1/18th scale autonomous model race car for developers, driven by reinforcement learning.
These announcements continue the drum beat of machine learning innovation from AWS, which has launched 
more than 200 significant machine learning capabilities in the past 12 months. Customers using these new services 
and capabilities include Adobe, BMW, Cathay Pacific, Dow Jones, Expedia, Formula 1, GE Healthcare, HERE, 
Intuit, Johnson & Johnson, Kia Motors, Lionbridge, Major League Baseball, NASA JPL, Politico.eu, Ryanair, Shell, 
Tinder, United Nations, Vonage, the World Bank, and Zillow. To learn more about AWS's new machine learning 
services, visit: https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning .
"We want to help all of our customers embrace machine learning, no matter their size, budget, experience, or skill 
level," said Swami Sivasubramanian, Vice President, Amazon Machine Learning. "Today's announcements remove 
significant barriers to the successful adoption of machine learning, by reducing the cost of machine learning training 
and inference, introducing new SageMaker capabilities that make it easier for developers to build, train, and deploy 
machine learning models in the cloud and at the edge, and delivering new AI services based on our years of 
experience at Amazon."
New infrastructure, a custom machine learning chip, and framework improvements for faster training and low-cost 
inference
Most machine learning models are trained by an algorithm that finds patterns in large amounts of data. The model 
can then make predictions on new data in a process called 'inference'. Developers use machine learning 
frameworks to define these algorithms, train models, and infer predictions. Frameworks (such as TensorFlow, 
Apache MXNet, and PyTorch) allow developers to design and train sophisticated models, often using multiple 
GPUs to reduce training times. Most developers use more than one of these frameworks in their day-to-day work. 
Today, AWS announced significant improvements for developers building with all of these popular frameworks, by 
improving performance and reducing cost for both training and inference.
•
New Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) GPU instances (available next week): With eight NVIDIA V100 
GPUs, 32GB GPU memory, fast NVMe storage, 96 Intel "Skylake" vCPUs, and 100Gbps networking, the 
new P3dn.24xl instances are the most powerful machine learning training processors available in the 
cloud, allowing developers to train models with more data in less time.
•
AWS-Optimized TensorFlow framework (generally available today): When training with large amounts of 
data, developers who choose to use TensorFlow have found that it's challenging to scale TensorFlow 
across many GPUs, which often results in low utilization of these GPUs and longer training times for large 
training jobs. AWS worked on this problem and has innovated on how to make TensorFlow scale across 
GPUs. By improving the way in which TensorFlow distributes training tasks across those GPUs, the new 
AWS-Optimized TensorFlow achieves close to linear scalability when training multiple types of neural 
networks (90 percent efficiency across 256 GPUs, compared to the prior norm of 65 percent). Using the 
new AWS-Optimized TensorFlow and P3dn instances, developers can now train the popular ResNet-50 
model in only 14 minutes, the fastest time recorded, and 50 percent faster than the previous best time. 
And, these optimizations are generally applicable not just for computer vision models but also for a broader 
set of deep learning models.
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and Capabilities, Including a Custom 
Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 1/18 Scale Autono....
•
Amazon Elastic Inference (generally available today): While training rightfully receives a lot of attention, 
inference actually accounts for the majority of the cost and complexity for running machine learning in 
production (for every dollar spent on training, nine are spent on inference). Amazon Elastic Inference 
allows developers to dramatically decrease inference costs with up to 75 percent savings when compared 
to the cost of using a dedicated GPU instance. Instead of running on a whole Amazon EC2 P2 or P3 
instance with relatively low utilization, developers can run on a smaller, general-purpose Amazon EC2 
instance and provision just the right amount of GPU performance from Amazon Elastic Inference. Starting 
at just 1 TFLOP, developers can elastically increase or decrease the amount of inference performance, 
and only pay for what they use. Elastic Inference supports all popular frameworks, and is integrated with 
Amazon SageMaker and the Amazon EC2 Deep Learning Amazon Machine Image (AMI). And, developers 
can start using Amazon Elastic Inference without making any changes to their existing models.
•
AWS Inferentia (available in 2019): For larger workloads that consume entire GPUs or require lower 
latency, AWS announced a high performance machine learning inference chip, custom designed by AWS. 
AWS Inferentia provides hundreds of teraflops per chip and thousands of teraflops per Amazon EC2 
instance for multiple frameworks (including TensorFlow, Apache MXNet, and PyTorch), and multiple data 
types (including INT-8 and mixed precision FP-16 and bfloat16).
Autodesk is a leader in 3D design, engineering, and entertainment software who uses deep learning models for use 
cases ranging from exploring thousands of potential design alternatives, semantically searching designs and 
optimizing the engineering construction process to applying better UV mapping in photo realistic renderings. 
"Running efficient inference is one of the biggest challenges in machine learning today," said Peter Jones, Head of 
AI Engineering for Autodesk Research. "Amazon Elastic Inference is the first capability of its kind we've found to 
help us eliminate excess costs that we incur today from idle GPU capacity. We estimate it will save us 75 percent in 
costs compared to running GPUs."
EagleView, a property data analytics company, helps lower property-damage losses from natural disasters by 
decreasing the time it takes to assess damage so that homeowners can decide next steps much faster. Using 
aerial, drone, and satellite images, EagleView runs deep learning models on AWS to make quicker, more accurate 
assessments of property damage within 24 hours of a natural disaster. "Matching the accuracy of human adjusters 
in property assessments requires us to process massive amounts of data in the form of ultra-high resolution images 
covering the entire multi-dimensional space (spatial, spectral, and temporal) of a disaster-affected region," explains 
Shay Strong, Director of Data Science and Machine Learning at EagleView. "Amazon Elastic Inference opens new 
doors that enables us to explore running workflows more cost effectively at scale."
New Amazon SageMaker capabilities make it easier to build, train, and deploy machine learning; developers get 
hands on with AWS DeepRacer, a 1/18th scale autonomous race car driven by reinforcement learning
Amazon SageMaker is a fully managed service that removes the heavy lifting and guesswork from each step of the 
machine learning process. Amazon SageMaker makes it easier for developers to build, train, tune, and deploy 
machine learning models. Today, AWS announced a number of new capabilities for Amazon SageMaker.
•
Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth (generally available today): The journey to build machine learning 
models requires developers to prepare their datasets for training their ML models. Before developers can 
select their algorithms, build their models, and deploy them to make predictions, human annotators 
manually review thousands of examples and add the labels required to train machine learning models. This 
process is time consuming and expensive. Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth makes it much easier for 
developers to label their data using human annotators through Mechanical Turk, third party vendors, or 
their own employees. Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth learns from these annotations in real time and 
can automatically apply labels to much of the remaining dataset, reducing the need for human review. 
Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth creates highly accurate training data sets, saves time and complexity, 
and reduces costs by up to up to 70 percent when compared to human annotation.
•
AWS Marketplace for Machine Learning (generally available today): Machine learning is moving quickly, 
with new models and algorithms from academia and industry appearing virtually every week. Amazon 
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and Capabilities, Including a Custom 
Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 1/18 Scale Autono....
SageMaker includes some of the most popular models and algorithms built-in, but to make sure developers 
continue to have access to the broadest set of capabilities, the new AWS Marketplace for Machine 
Learning includes over 150 algorithms and models (with more coming every day) that can be deployed 
directly to Amazon SageMaker. Developers can start using these immediately from SageMaker. Adding a 
listing to the Marketplace is completely self-service for developers who want to sell through AWS 
Marketplace.
•
Amazon SageMaker RL (generally available today): In machine learning circles, there is a lot of buzz about 
reinforcement learning because it's an exciting technology with a ton of potential. Reinforcement learning 
trains models, without large amounts of training data, and it's broadly useful when the reward function of a 
desired outcome is known but the path to achieving it is not and requires a lot of iteration to discover. 
Healthcare treatments, optimizing manufacturing supply chains, and solving gaming challenges are a few 
of the areas that reinforcement learning can help address. However, reinforcement learning has a steep 
learning curve and many moving parts, which effectively puts it out of the reach of all but the most well-
funded and technical organizations. Amazon SageMaker RL, the cloud's first managed reinforcement 
learning service, allows any developer to build, train, and deploy with reinforcement learning through 
managed reinforcement learning algorithms, support for multiple frameworks (including Intel Coach and 
Ray RL), multiple simulation environments (including SimuLink and MatLab), and integration with AWS 
RoboMaker, AWS's new robotics service, which provides a simulation platform that integrates well with 
SageMaker RL.
•
AWS DeepRacer (available for pre-order today): In just a few lines of code, developers can start learning 
about reinforcement learning with AWS DeepRacer, a 1/18th scale fully autonomous race car. The car 
(with all-wheel drive, monster truck tires, an HD video camera, and on-board compute) is driven using 
reinforcement learning models trained using Amazon SageMaker. Developers can put their skills to the test 
and race their cars and models against other developers for prizes and glory in the DeepRacer League, the 
world's first global autonomous racing league, open to everyone.
•
Amazon SageMaker Neo (generally available today): The new deep learning model compiler lets 
customers train models once, and run them anywhere with up to 2X improvement in performance. 
Applications running on connected devices at the edge are particularly sensitive to performance of 
machine learning models. They require low latency decisions, and are often deployed across a broad 
number of different hardware platforms. Amazon SageMaker Neo compiles models for specific hardware 
platforms, optimizing their performance automatically, allowing them to run at up to twice the performance, 
without any loss in accuracy. As a result, developers no longer need to spend time hand tuning their 
trained models for each and every hardware platform (saving time and expense). SageMaker Neo supports 
hardware platforms from NVIDIA, Intel, Xilinx, Cadence, and Arm, and popular frameworks such as 
TensorFlow, Apache MXNet, and PyTorch. AWS will also make Neo available as an open source project.
Tyson Foods is one of the world's largest food companies and a recognized leader in protein. "We are building a 
computer vision system for our chicken processing facilities and we need highly accurate labeled training datasets 
to train these systems," said Chad Wahlquist, Director of Emerging Technology for Tyson Foods. "When we first 
tried to setup our own labeling solution, it required a large amount of compute and a Frankenstein of open source 
solutions - even before creating the user interface for data labeling. With Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth, we 
were able to use the readymade template for bounding boxes and got a labeling job running in just a few clicks, 
quickly and easily. Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth also enables us to securely bring our own workers to label 
the data, which is an essential requirement for our business. We are looking forward to using Amazon SageMaker 
Ground Truth across our business."
Dubbed "America's Un-carrier," T-Mobile is a leading wireless services, products, and service innovation provider. 
"The AI at T-Mobile team is integrating AI and machine learning into the systems at our customer care centers, 
enabling our team of experts to serve customers with greater speed and accuracy through Natural Language 
Understanding models that show them relevant, contextual customer information in real-time," said Matthew Davis, 
Vice President of IT Development for T-Mobile. "Labeling data has been foundational to creating high performing 
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and Capabilities, Including a Custom 
Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 1/18 Scale Autono....
models, but is also a monotonous task for our data scientists and software engineers. Amazon SageMaker Ground 
Truth makes the data labeling process easy, efficient, and accessible, freeing up time for them to focus on what 
they love - building products that deliver the best experiences for our customers and care representatives."
Chick-fil-A, Inc. is a family owned and privately held restaurant company that is known for its original chicken 
sandwich and which serves freshly prepared food in more than 2,300 restaurants in 47 states and Washington, DC. 
"Food safety is of critical importance in our business. Our early efforts with computer vision and machine learning 
show promise in improving operations," said Jay Duff, Principal Team Lead for Chick-fil-A. "Amazon SageMaker 
and GroundTruth helped us speed up the development of new models and evaluations by making it easier to label 
and verify new training sets, re-train models, and then iterate on more complex data. Additionally, the workforce 
management features gave us faster turnaround on manual tasks while reducing administrative toil."
Arm technology is at the heart of a computing and connectivity revolution that is transforming the way people live 
and businesses operate. "Arm's vision of a trillion connected devices by 2035 is driven by the additional consumer 
value derived from innovations like machine learning," said Jem Davies, fellow, General Manager and Vice 
President for the Machine Learning Group at Arm. "The combination of Amazon SageMaker Neo and the Arm NN 
SDK will help developers optimize machine learning models to run efficiently on a wide variety of connected edge 
devices."
Cadence enables electronic systems and semiconductor companies to create the innovative end products that are 
transforming the way people live, work, and play. Cadence software, hardware and semiconductor IP are used by 
customers to deliver products to market faster. "Cadence(r) Tensilica(r) processors are optimized for on-device 
machine learning applications spanning from autonomous driving cars to speech processing to robotics," said Babu 
Mandava, Senior Vice President and General Manager of the IP Group at Cadence Design Systems. "Amazon 
SageMaker Neo simplifies the deployment of optimized models from cloud to the edge. We are excited to be driving 
a seamless integration of Amazon SageMaker Neo with our Tensilica processor family and development 
environment to help developers optimize machine learning models for Tensilica-powered edge devices."
GE Healthcare is a leading provider of medical imaging, monitoring, biomanufacturing, and cell and gene therapy 
technologies that enables precision health in diagnostics, therapeutics and monitoring through intelligent devices, 
data analytics, applications and services. "GE Healthcare is transforming healthcare by empowering providers to 
deliver better outcomes," said Keith Bigelow, Senior Vice President of Edison Portfolio Strategy, GE Healthcare. 
"We train computer vision models with Amazon SageMaker that are then deployed in our MRI and X-Ray devices. 
By applying reinforcement learning techniques, we are able to reduce the size of our trained models while achieving 
the right balance between network compression and model accuracy. Amazon SageMaker RL enabled us to get 
from idea to implementation in less than four weeks by removing the complexities of running reinforcement learning 
workloads."
"Reinforcement Learning is enabling innovation in machine learning and robotics," said Brad Porter, Vice President 
and Distinguished Engineer of Amazon Robotics. "We're excited Amazon SageMaker is making it easier to try 
reinforcement learning techniques with real-world applications, and we're already experimenting with ways to use it 
for robotic applications. For instance, earlier this year we showed a robot that was able to play beer pong using 
some of these techniques and we're excited to continue to explore these opportunities in partnership collaboration 
with AWS."
New AI services bring intelligence to all apps, no machine learning experience required
Many developers want to be able to add intelligent features to their applications without requiring any machine 
learning experience. Building on existing computer vision, speech, language, and chatbot services, AWS 
announced a significant expansion of AI services.
•
Amazon Textract (available in preview today): Many companies today extract data from documents and 
forms through manual data entry which is slow and expensive, or using simple optical character recognition 
(OCR) software, which is often inaccurate and typically produces output that requires extensive post-
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and Capabilities, Including a Custom 
Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 1/18 Scale Autono....
processing to put the extracted content in a format that is usable by a developer's application. Amazon 
Textract uses machine learning to instantly read virtually any type of document to accurately extract text 
and data without the need for any manual review or custom code. Amazon Textract allows developers to 
quickly automate document workflows, processing millions of document pages in a few hours.
•
Amazon Comprehend Medical (generally available today): Building the next generation of medical 
applications requires being able to understand and analyze the information that is often trapped in free-
form, unstructured medical text, such as hospital admission notes or patient medical histories. 
Comprehend Medical is a highly accurate natural language processing service for medical text, which uses 
machine learning to extract disease conditions, medications, and treatment outcomes from patient notes, 
clinical trial reports, and other electronic health records. Comprehend Medical requires no machine 
learning expertise, no complicated rules to write, no models to train, and it is continuously improving. You 
pay only for what you use and there are no minimum fees or upfront commitments.
•
Amazon Personalize (available in preview today): Based on the same technology that powers 
Amazon.com, Amazon Personalize is a real-time recommendation and personalization service. Amazon 
pioneered the use of machine learning for recommendation and personalization over twenty years ago. 
Experience has shown that there is no master algorithm for personalization. Each use case, from videos, 
music, products, news articles, has its own specificities, which require a unique mix of data, algorithms, 
and optimizations. Amazon Personalize provides this experience to customers in a fully managed service, 
which will build, train, and deploy custom, private personalization and recommendation models for virtually 
any use case. Amazon Personalize can make recommendations, personalize search results, and segment 
customers for direct and personalized marketing through email or push notifications.
•
Amazon Forecast (available in preview today): Just like personalization, forecasting has traditionally been 
a bit of a dark art, where customers try to predict future trends in supply chain, inventory levels, and 
product demand, based on historical data. And just like Amazon Personalize, Amazon Forecast is based 
on technology that has been developed by Amazon.com and used for a lot of critical forecasting. 
Forecasting is hard to do well because there are often so many inter-related factors (such as pricing, 
events, and even the weather). Missing the mark with a forecast can have a significant impact, such as 
being unable to meet customer demand or significantly over-spending. Amazon Forecast creates accurate 
time-series forecasts. Using historical data and related causal data, Amazon Forecast will automatically 
train, tune, and deploy custom, private machine learning forecasting models, so that customers can be 
more confident that they'll provide the right customer experience while optimizing their spend.
Cox Automotive is a subsidiary of Cox enterprises which encompasses all of Cox's global automotive businesses 
including Kelley Blue Book, Xtime, Autotrader.com, and Manheim. "At Cox Automotive, we are looking to transform 
how the world buys, sells, and trade cars. To further modernize our automotive solutions, we will be leveraging 
Amazon Textract to accelerate how quickly cars can be transacted," said Bryan Landerman, Chief Technology 
Officer at Cox Automotive. "With Amazon Textract, we can automatically capture and validate data from documents 
and forms, such as loan applications or vehicle titles, so decisions can be made more quickly. This will reduce 
customer effort and further streamline the process for everyone involved from the manufacturer to the buyer."
Alfresco is a leading enterprise open source provider of process automation, content management, and information 
governance software. "At Alfresco, we want to make document processing and content management as simple as 
possible for our customers. Since a document management system is only as good as its input, it is critical that we 
have the foundational tools that can automatically and accurately extract key information from digitized documents," 
said John Newton, CTO and Founder at Alfresco. "Previously, we built custom solutions on top of OCR technology 
in order to extract data of interest, which required intensive manual training. This process consumed valuable time 
and resources, but it was work that had to be done. With Amazon Textract, we can now automatically extract not 
just the text in a document and table information, but real insights that allow us to automate data entry and facilitate 
faster business decisions. Amazon Textract is enabling us to provide greater data integrity, security compliance, 
and the ability to launch business processes faster than ever. And most importantly, all of this helps us better assist 
our customers in their digital transformation journey."
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and Capabilities, Including a Custom 
Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 1/18 Scale Autono....
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) is a patient care, teaching, and research affiliate of Harvard 
Medical School and consistently ranks as a national leader among independent hospitals in National Institutes of 
Health funding. BIDMC is the official hospital of the Boston Red Sox. "At BIDMC, we have over 490 surgical beds 
that are always occupied. We strive to quickly and successfully perform surgical procedures so our patients can be 
treated in time. But a lot of procedures were being canceled and delayed because the patients' completed History 
and Physical (H&P) form required before surgery was difficult to locate in the Electronic Health Records (EHR)," 
said Venkat Jegadeesan, Senior Enterprise Architect of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. "To solve this, we 
started to use Amazon Comprehend Medical to make data in our EHR systems to be easily searchable using key 
medical text. Our teams are now able to identify the H&P's quickly with the right prompts for clinical staff. As a 
result, we can save a lot of valuable time and help prevent delays or potential cancellations which can be 
inconvenient for patients and their families."
At Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, home to three Nobel laureates, interdisciplinary teams of world-
renowned scientists seek new and innovative ways to prevent, diagnose and treat cancer, HIV/AIDS and other life-
threatening diseases. "Curing cancer is, inherently, an issue of time," said Matthew Trunnell, Chief Information 
Officer, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. "For cancer patients and the researchers dedicated to curing 
them, time is the limiting resource. The process of developing clinical trials and connecting them with the right 
patients requires research teams to sift through and label mountains of unstructured medical record 
data. Amazon Comprehend Medical will reduce this time burden from hours to seconds. This is a vital step 
toward getting researchers rapid access to the information they need when they need it so they can find 
actionable insights to advance lifesaving therapies for patients."
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) is a network of firms in 158 countries with over 250,000 people who are committed 
to delivering quality in assurance, advisory, and tax services. "Amazon Comprehend Medical provides us the ability 
to realize better results with less overhead. By using Comprehend Medical with our customers we are able to focus 
more on building smarter applications and less on annotating, training and re-training models," said Matt 
Rich, Healthcare AI Lead for PwC. "For our customers the ability to perform a very manual task accurately at scale 
allows us to create more impactful solutions. For example, one of our pharmaceutical clients is using Comprehend 
Medical on a limited sample size to help extract information that allows them to identify medically relevant events. In 
preliminary findings, we are seeing a significantly faster throughput than in the past."
Domino's Pizza Enterprises Ltd. is the largest pizza chain in Australia and their vision is to be the leader in the 
Internet of Food in every neighborhood. "The customer is at the heart of everything we do at Domino's and we are 
working relentlessly to improve and enhance their experience with the brand," said Mallika Krishnamurthy, Global 
Head, Strategy & Insights, Domino's Pizza Enterprises. "Using Amazon Personalize in conjunction with Amazon 
Pinpoint, we are able to achieve personalization at scale across our entire customer base, which was previously 
impossible. Amazon Personalize enables us to apply context about individual customers and their circumstances, 
and deliver customized communications such as special deals and offers through our digital channels."
Mercado Libre is a leading online commerce and payments platform in Latin America. "We have been predicting 
demand for over 50,000 different products using Amazon Forecast's state-of-the-art deep learning algorithms, that 
we can use right out of the box," said Adrian Quilis, Director of Business Intelligence for Mercado Libre. "Amazon 
Forecast takes care of all the heavy lifting of setting up pipelines, re-training schedules, and re-generating 
forecasts, so we can experiment with hundreds of models very easily."
About Amazon Web Services
For over 12 years, Amazon Web Services has been the world's most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud 
platform. AWS offers over 125 fully featured services for compute, storage, databases, networking, analytics, 
machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, security, hybrid, virtual and 
augmented reality (VR and AR), media, and application development, deployment, and management from 57 
Availability Zones (AZs) within 19 geographic regions around the world, spanning the US, Australia, Brazil, Canada, 
China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Japan, Korea, Singapore, and the UK. AWS services are trusted by 
Amazon Web Services Announces 13 New Machine Learning Services and Capabilities, Including a Custom 
Chip for Machine Learning Inference, and a 1/18 Scale Autono....
millions of active customers around the world-including the fastest-growing startups, largest enterprises, and 
leading government agencies-to power their infrastructure, make them more agile, and lower costs. To learn more 
about AWS, visit aws.amazon.com .
About Amazon
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, 
commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized 
recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, 
Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit 
amazon.com/about and follow @AmazonNews.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181128005660/en/
CONTACT: Amazon.com, Inc.Media HotlineAmazon-pr@amazon.com www.amazon.com/pr
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 29, 2018
End of Document
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Reminds Investors of the Deadline in the Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Reminds Investors of the Deadline in the 
Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Business Wire
November 27, 2018 Tuesday 1:09 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 465 words
Dateline: LOS ANGELES 
Body
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP ("GPM") reminds investors of the January 9, 2019 deadline to file a lead plaintiff 
motion in the class action filed on behalf of investors that purchased Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or the 
"Company") (NASDAQ:            RYAAY ) securities between May 30, 2017 and September 28, 2018, inclusive (the 
"Class Period"). Ryanair investors have until January 9, 2019 to file a lead plaintiff motion.
If you are a shareholder who suffered a loss, click  here to participate.
On September 15, 2017, Ryanair announced that it would need to cancel up to 50 flights a day for the next six 
weeks due to pilot scheduling issues, impacting some 315,000 customers. On this news, Ryanair's American 
depositary receipt ("ADR") price fell $7.09, or 6.21%, over three trading sessions, to close at $107.00 on September 
18, 2017, thereby injuring investors.
The complaint filed in this class action alleges that the Company made false and misleading statements to the 
market. Ryanair's labor relations continued to worsen throughout the summer of 2018, despite the Company 
claiming that it had improved the situation. Ryanair admitted on July 23, 2018, that profits had dipped 20% due to a 
34% increase in staffing costs. The Company revealed on October 1, 2018, that strikes and flight cancellations 
affecting hundreds of thousands of customers caused cost increases to the point that the Company could not meet 
its profit projections. Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were false and materially misleading 
throughout the class period.
Follow us for updates on Twitter: twitter.com/GPM_LLP .
If you purchased shares of Ryanair, you may move the Court no later than January 9, 2019 to ask the Court to 
appoint you as lead plaintiff. To be a member of the Class you need not take any action at this time; you may retain 
counsel of your choice or take no action and remain an absent member of the Class. If you wish to learn 
more about this action, or if you have any questions concerning this announcement or your rights or interests with 
respect to these matters, please contact Lesley Portnoy , Esquire, of GPM, 1925 Century Park East, Suite 2100, 
Los Angeles California 90067 at 310-201-9150, Toll-Free at 888-773-9224, by email to            
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Reminds Investors of the Deadline in the Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)
shareholders@glancylaw.com , or visit our website at            www.glancylaw.com . If you inquire by email please 
include your mailing address, telephone number and number of shares purchased.
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and 
ethical rules.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181127005910/en/
CONTACT: Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP, Los AngelesLesley Portnoy, 310-201-9150 or 888-773-9224 
www.glancylaw.com shareholders@glancylaw.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 28, 2018
End of Document
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Announces the Filing of a Securities Class Action on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings 
plc Investors (RYAAY)
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Announces the Filing of a Securities Class 
Action on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings plc Investors (RYAAY)
Business Wire
November 20, 2018 Tuesday 11:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 473 words
Dateline: LOS ANGELES 
Body
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP ("GPM"), a global investors rights law firm, announces that a class action lawsuit has 
been filed on behalf of investors that purchased or otherwise acquired Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or the 
"Company") (NASDAQ:             RYAAY ) American depositary receipts between May 30, 2017 and September 28, 
2018, inclusive (the "Class Period"). Ryanair investors have until January 9, 2019 to file a lead plaintiff motion.
If you are a shareholder who suffered a loss, click  here  to participate.
On September 15, 2017, Ryanair announced that it would need to cancel up to 50 flights a day for the next six 
weeks due to pilot "schedul[ing]" issues, impacting some 315,000 customers. On this news, Ryanair's American 
depositary receipt ("ADR") price fell $7.09, or 6.21%, over three trading sessions, to close at $107.00 on September 
18, 2017, thereby injuring investors.
The complaint filed in this class action alleges that the Company made false and misleading statements to the 
market. Ryanair's labor relations continued to worsen throughout the summer of 2018, despite the Company 
claiming that it had improved the situation. Ryanair admitted on July 23, 2018, that profits had dipped 20% due to a 
34% increase in staffing costs. The Company revealed on October 1, 2018, that strikes and flight cancellations 
affecting hundreds of thousands of customers caused cost increases to the point that the Company could not meet 
its profit projections. Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were false and materially misleading 
throughout the class period.
Follow us for updates on Twitter: twitter.com/GPM_LLP .
If you purchased shares of Ryanair during the Class Period you may move the Court no later than January 9, 2019 
to ask the Court to appoint you as lead plaintiff. To be a member of the Class you need not take any action at this 
time; you may retain counsel of your choice or take no action and remain an absent member of the Class. If you 
wish to learn more about this action, or if you have any questions concerning this announcement or your rights or 
interests with respect to these matters, please contact Lesley Portnoy, Esquire, of GPM, 1925 Century Park East, 
Suite 2100, Los Angeles California 90067 at 310-201-9150, Toll-Free at 888-773-9224, by email to 
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Announces the Filing of a Securities Class Action on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings 
plc Investors (RYAAY)
shareholders@glancylaw.com , or visit our website at            www.glancylaw.com . If you inquire by email please 
include your mailing address, telephone number and number of shares purchased.
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and 
ethical rules.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181120005796/en/
CONTACT: Glancy Prongay and Murray LLP, Los AngelesLesley Portnoy, 310-201-9150 or 888-773-9224 
www.glancylaw.com shareholders@glancylaw.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 21, 2018
End of Document
Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Announces the Filing of a Securities Class Action on Behalf of Ryanair 
Holdings plc Investors
Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Announces the Filing of a Securities Class 
Action on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings plc Investors
Business Wire
November 19, 2018 Monday 11:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 426 words
Dateline: BENSALEM, Pa. 
Body
Law Offices of Howard G. Smith announces that a class action lawsuit has been filed on behalf of investors that 
purchased Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: RYAAY ) American depositary receipts 
between May 30, 2017 and September 28, 2018, inclusive (the "Class Period"). Ryanair investors have 
until January 7, 2019 to file a lead plaintiff motion.
Investors suffering losses on their Ryanair investments are encouraged to contact the Law Offices of Howard G. 
Smith 
to 
discuss 
their 
legal 
rights 
in 
this 
class 
action 
at 
888-638-4847 
or 
by 
email 
to 
howardsmith@howardsmithlaw.com .
On September 15, 2017, Ryanair announced that it would need to cancel up to 50 flights a day for the next six 
weeks due to pilot "schedul[ing]" issues, impacting some 315,000 customers. On this news, Ryanair's American 
depositary receipt ("ADR") price fell $7.09, or 6.21%, over three trading sessions, to close at $107.00 on September 
18, 2017, thereby injuring investors.
The complaint filed in this class action alleges that the Company made false and misleading statements to the 
market. Ryanair's labor relations continued to worsen throughout the summer of 2018, despite the Company 
claiming that it had improved the situation. Ryanair admitted on July 23, 2018, that profits had dipped 20% due to a 
34% increase in staffing costs. The Company revealed on October 1, 2018, that strikes and flight cancellations 
affecting hundreds of thousands of customers caused cost increases to the point that the Company could not meet 
its profit projections. Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were false and materially misleading 
throughout the class period.
If you purchased American depositary receipts of Ryanair, have information or would like to learn more about these 
claims, or have any questions concerning this announcement or your rights or interests with respect to these 
matters, please contact Howard G. Smith, Esquire, of Law Offices of Howard G. Smith, 3070 Bristol Pike, Suite 112, 
Bensalem, Pennsylvania 19020 by telephone at (215) 638-4847, toll-free at (888) 638-4847, or by email to 
howardsmith@howardsmithlaw.com , or visit our website at            www.howardsmithlaw.com .
Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Announces the Filing of a Securities Class Action on Behalf of Ryanair 
Holdings plc Investors
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and 
ethical rules.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181119005923/en/
CONTACT: 
Law 
Offices 
of 
Howard 
G. 
SmithHoward 
G. 
Smith, 
Esquire215-638-4847888-638-
4847howardsmith@howardsmithlaw.com www.howardsmithlaw.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 20, 2018
End of Document
RYANAIR SHAREHOLDER ALERT by Former Louisiana Attorney General: Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC Reminds 
Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 of Lead Plaintiff Dea....
RYANAIR SHAREHOLDER ALERT by Former Louisiana Attorney General: 
Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC Reminds Investors with Losses in Excess of 
$100,000 of Lead Plaintiff Deadline in Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair 
Holdings plc - RYAAY
Business Wire
November 16, 2018 Friday 3:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 396 words
Dateline: NEW ORLEANS 
Body
Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC ("KSF") and KSF partner, former Attorney General of Louisiana, Charles C. Foti, Jr., remind 
investors that they have until January 7, 2019 to file lead plaintiff applications in a securities class action lawsuit 
against Ryanair Holdings plc (NasdaqGS: RYAAY), if they purchased the Company's American Depositary Shares 
("ADSs") between May 30, 2017 and September 28, 2018, inclusive (the "Class Period"). This action is pending in 
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
What You May Do
If you purchased ADSs of Ryanair and would like to discuss your legal rights and how this case might affect you 
and your right to recover for your economic loss, you may, without obligation or cost to you, contact KSF Managing 
Partner Lewis Kahn toll-free at 1-877-515-1850 or via email ( lewis.kahn@ksfcounsel.com ), or visit            
https://www.ksfcounsel.com/cases/nasdaqgs-ryaay/ to learn more. If you wish to serve as a lead plaintiff in this 
class action, you must petition the Court by January 7, 2019.
About the Lawsuit
Ryanair and certain of its executives are charged with failing to disclose material information during the Class 
Period, violating federal securities laws.
In the summer of 2018, worsening labor relations continued to negatively affect Ryanair's performance, despite its 
statements otherwise, causing significant expenses from flight cancellations. On July 23, 2018, the Company 
revealed quarterly profits had decreased 20% partly due to a 34% increase in staffing costs. Then, on October 1, 
2018, Ryanair disclosed that strikes and flight cancellations had caused increasing costs such that it was unable to 
meet its annual profit guidance.
On this news, the price of Ryanair's ADSs plummeted.
RYANAIR SHAREHOLDER ALERT by Former Louisiana Attorney General: Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC Reminds 
Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 of Lead Plaintiff Dea....
About Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC
KSF, whose partners include former Louisiana Attorney General Charles C. Foti, Jr., is a law firm focused on 
securities, antitrust and consumer class actions, along with merger & acquisition and breach of fiduciary litigation 
against publicly traded companies on behalf of shareholders. The firm has offices in New York, California and 
Louisiana.
To learn more about KSF, you may visit www.ksfcounsel.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181116005533/en/
CONTACT: Kahn Swick & Foti, LLCLewis Kahn, Managing Partnerlewis.kahn@ksfcounsel.com1-877-515-1850
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 17, 2018
End of Document
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Announces Investigation on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings plc Investors (RYAAY)
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Announces Investigation on Behalf of Ryanair 
Holdings plc Investors (RYAAY)
Business Wire
November 14, 2018 Wednesday 1:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 280 words
Dateline: LOS ANGELES 
Body
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP ("GPM") announces an investigation on behalf of Ryanair Holdings plc investors 
("Ryanair" or the "Company") (NASDAQ:            RYAAY ) concerning the Company and its officers' possible 
violations of federal securities laws.
If you are a shareholder who suffered a loss, click  here  to participate.
On September 15, 2017, Ryanair announced that it would need to cancel up to 50 flights a day for the next six 
weeks due to pilot "schedul[ing]" issues, impacting some 315,000 customers. On this news, Ryanair's American 
depositary receipt ("ADR") price fell $7.09, or 6.21%, over three trading sessions, to close at $107.00 on September 
18, 2017, thereby injuring investors.
Follow us for updates on Twitter: twitter.com/GPM_LLP .
If you purchased Ryanair American depositary receipts, have information or would like to learn more about these 
claims, or have any questions concerning this announcement or your rights or interests with respect to these 
matters, please contact Lesley Portnoy, Esquire, of GPM, 1925 Century Park East, Suite 2100, Los Angeles 
California 90067 at 310-201-9150, Toll-Free at 888-773-9224, by email to shareholders@glancylaw.com , or visit 
our website at            www.glancylaw.com . If you inquire by email please include your mailing address, telephone 
number and number of shares purchased.
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and 
ethical rules.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181114006013/en/
CONTACT: Glancy Prongay and Murray LLP, Los AngelesLesley Portnoy, 310-201-9150 or 888-773-9224 
www.glancylaw.com shareholders@glancylaw.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Glancy Prongay & Murray LLP Announces Investigation on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings plc Investors (RYAAY)
Load-Date: November 15, 2018
End of Document
Robbins Arroyo LLP: Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Misled Shareholders According to Class Action
Robbins Arroyo LLP: Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Misled Shareholders 
According to Class Action
Business Wire
November 13, 2018 Tuesday 8:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 421 words
Dateline: SAN DIEGO & SWORDS, Ireland 
Body
Shareholder rights law firm Robbins Arroyo LLP announces that purchasers of Ryanair Holdings plc (NasdaqGS: 
RYAAY) have filed a class action complaint against the company's officers and directors for alleged violations of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 between May 30, 2017 through September 28, 2018. Ryanair provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, and other European countries.
View this information on the law firm's Shareholder Rights Blog: https://www.robbinsarroyo.com/ryanair-holdings-
plc/
Ryanair Accused of Using Aggressive Anti-Employee Practices
According to the complaint, Ryanair used Irish employment contracts to avoid labor laws throughout Europe, 
opposed unions, and forced its employees to pay for workplace basics, including training, uniforms, and water. 
While the company's employees were quitting en masse, Ryanair publicly stated that its employees were satisfied 
with their "industry leading" pay and benefits. As the extent of the labor unrest worsened, Ryanair's employees 
threatened collective action, causing flight cancelations and forcing the company to pay millions in compensation 
costs or to re-route fliers. After disclosing a 20% decrease in quarterly profits in July 2018, Ryanair revealed in 
October that it could not meet its annual profit guidance due to massive costs related to the strikes and flight 
cancelations. On this news, Ryanair's American Depositary Share ("ADS") price fell to $80.93 per ADS on October 
1, 2018, approximately 35% below the class period high.
Ryanair Shareholders Have Legal Options
Concerned shareholders who would like more information about their rights and potential remedies can contact 
attorney Leonid Kandinov at (800) 350-6003, LKandinov@robbinsarroyo.com , or via the            shareholder 
information form on the firm's website.
Robbins Arroyo LLP is a nationally recognized leader in shareholder rights law. The firm represents individual and 
institutional investors in shareholder derivative and securities class action lawsuits, and has helped its clients 
Robbins Arroyo LLP: Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Misled Shareholders According to Class Action
realize more than $1 billion of value for themselves and the companies in which they have invested. Sign up for our 
FREE portfolio monitoring service, Stock Watch .
Attorney Advertising. Past results do not guarantee a similar outcome.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181113006157/en/
CONTACT: Robbins Arroyo LLPLeonid KandinovLKandinov@robbinsarroyo.com(619) 525-3990 or Toll Free (800) 
350-6003 www.robbinsarroyo.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 14, 2018
End of Document
IMPORTANT INVESTOR ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against 
Ryanair Holdings plc and Encourages Investors with Losses i....
IMPORTANT INVESTOR ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing 
of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Ryanair Holdings plc and Encourages 
Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 to Contact the Firm
Business Wire
November 13, 2018 Tuesday 3:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 402 words
Dateline: LOS ANGELES 
Body
The Schall Law Firm , a national shareholder rights litigation firm, announces the filing of a class action lawsuit 
against Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or "the Company") (NASDAQ:            RYAAY ) for violations of §§10(b) and 
20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission.
Investors who purchased the Company's American depositary receipts between May 30, 2017 and September 28, 
2018, inclusive (the ''Class Period''), are encouraged to contact the firm before January 7, 2019.
If you are a shareholder who suffered a loss, click here to participate .
We also encourage you to contact Brian Schall, or Sherin Mahdavian, of the Schall Law Firm, 1880 Century Park 
East, Suite 404, Los Angeles, CA 90067, at 424-303-1964, to discuss your rights free of charge. You can also 
reach us through the firm's website at  www.schallfirm.com , or by email at             brian@schallfirm.com .
The class, in this case, has not yet been certified, and until certification occurs, you are not represented by an 
attorney. If you choose to take no action, you can remain an absent class member.
According to the Complaint, the Company made false and misleading statements to the market. Ryanair's labor 
relations continued to worsen throughout the summer of 2018, despite the Company claiming that it had improved 
the situation. Ryanair admitted on July 23, 2018, that profits had dipped 20% due to a 34% increase in staffing 
costs. The Company revealed on October 1, 2018, that strikes and flight cancellations affecting hundreds of 
thousands of customers caused cost increases to the point that the Company could not meet its profit projections. 
Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were false and materially misleading throughout the class 
period. When the market learned the truth about Ryanair, investors suffered damages.
Join the case to recover your losses.
IMPORTANT INVESTOR ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against 
Ryanair Holdings plc and Encourages Investors with Losses i....
The Schall Law Firm represents investors around the world and specializes in securities class action lawsuits and 
shareholder rights litigation.
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and rules 
of ethics.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181113005842/en/
CONTACT: The Schall Law FirmBrian Schall, Esq., Sherin Mahdavian, Esq., www.schallfirm.com 310-301-3335 
info@schallfirm.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 14, 2018
End of Document
INVESTOR ALERT: Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Announces Investigation on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings 
plc Investors (RYAAY)
INVESTOR ALERT: Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Announces 
Investigation on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings plc Investors (RYAAY)
Business Wire
November 12, 2018 Monday 2:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 248 words
Dateline: BENSALEM, Pa. 
Body
Law Offices of Howard G. Smith announces an investigation on behalf of Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or the 
"Company") (NASDAQ: RYAAY ) investors concerning the Company and its officers' possible violations of federal 
securities laws.
On September 15, 2017, Ryanair announced that it would need to cancel up to 50 flights a day for the next six 
weeks due to pilot "schedul[ing]" issues, impacting some 315,000 customers. On this news, Ryanair's American 
depositary receipt ("ADR") price fell $7.09, or 6.21%, over three trading sessions, to close at $107.00 on September 
18, 2017, thereby injuring investors.
If you purchased Ryanair American depositary receipts, have information or would like to learn more about these 
claims, or have any questions concerning this announcement or your rights or interests with respect to these 
matters, please contact Howard G. Smith, Esquire, of Law Offices of Howard G. Smith, 3070 Bristol Pike, Suite 112, 
Bensalem, Pennsylvania 19020 by telephone at (215) 638-4847, toll-free at (888) 638-4847, or by email to  
howardsmith@howardsmithlaw.com , or visit our website at            www.howardsmithlaw.com .
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and 
ethical rules.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181112005836/en/
CONTACT: 
Law 
Offices 
of 
Howard 
G. 
SmithHoward 
G. 
Smith, 
Esquire215-638-4847888-638-
4847howardsmith@howardsmithlaw.com www.howardsmithlaw.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 13, 2018
INVESTOR ALERT: Law Offices of Howard G. Smith Announces Investigation on Behalf of Ryanair Holdings 
plc Investors (RYAAY)
End of Document
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Files Class Action Suit Against Ryanair Holdings plc
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Files Class Action Suit Against Ryanair 
Holdings plc
Business Wire
November 6, 2018 Tuesday 1:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 905 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP (            http://www.rgrdlaw.com/cases/ryanair/ ) today announced that a 
class action has been commenced by an institutional investor on behalf of purchasers of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ: RYAAY) American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") during the period between May 30, 2017 and 
September 28, 2018 (the "Class Period"). This action was filed in the Southern District of New York and is 
captioned City of Birmingham Firemen's and Policemen's Supplemental Pension System v. Ryanair Holdings plc., 
et al., No. 18-cv-10330.
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 permits any investor who purchased Ryanair ADSs during the 
Class Period to seek appointment as lead plaintiff. A lead plaintiff acts on behalf of all other class members in 
directing the litigation. The lead plaintiff can select a law firm of its choice. An investor's ability to share in any 
potential future recovery is not dependent upon serving as lead plaintiff. If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you 
must move the Court no later than 60 days from today. If you wish to discuss this action or have any questions 
concerning this notice or your rights or interests, please contact plaintiff's counsel, Samuel H. Rudman or            
Brian E. Cochran of Robbins Geller at 800/449-4900 or 619/231-1058, or via e-mail at            djr@rgrdlaw.com . 
You can view a copy of the complaint as filed at            http://www.rgrdlaw.com/cases/ryanair/ .
The complaint charges Ryanair and its Chief Executive Officer, Michael O'Leary, with violations of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. Ryanair is a Dublin-based airline operator.
The complaint alleges that during the Class Period, defendants made false and misleading statements and/or failed 
to disclose adverse information regarding Ryanair's business and operations as a result of its aggressive anti-
employee practices and opposition to employee collectivization efforts. Specifically, the complaint alleges that 
defendants misrepresented and/or failed to disclose, among other things, that Ryanair's labor relations had 
deteriorated in 2017 and 2018. As a result, the Company was experiencing increased employee turnover and was 
threatened with massive strikes and other disruptions across its operations, and its historical operating model and 
profit growth were not sustainable.
On September 14, 2017, it was reported that Ryanair had lost a key ruling in the European Court of Justice that 
cast doubt on the legality of the Company's use of Irish employment contracts to evade local labor laws throughout 
Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP Files Class Action Suit Against Ryanair Holdings plc
Europe. The next day, Ryanair announced that it would need to cancel up to 50 flights a day for the next six weeks 
due to pilot "schedul[ing]" issues. Reports began to circulate that the disruption was not due to scheduling issues, 
as the Company had claimed, but rather to widespread defections by disgruntled employees. Then, according to 
the complaint, in December 2017, Ryanair reversed its earlier position and conceded its need to recognize unions, 
but continued to downplay the extent of the labor unrest and conceal the expected impact to the Company's 
operations and financial results. However, in the summer of 2018, discontent among Ryanair's workers continued to 
spill out into the open, belying defendants' public claims regarding improved labor relations and forcing workers into 
threatening collective action. The resulting flight cancellations damaged the Company's brand and forced it to pay 
millions in compensation costs or to re-route fliers.
On July 23, 2018, Ryanair disclosed a 20% decrease in quarterly profits, due in part to a 34% increase in staff 
costs. Then, on October 1, 2018, the Company revealed that it could not meet its annual profit guidance due to the 
lost fares and ballooning costs related to the strikes and flight cancellations. By market close on October 1, 2018, 
the price of Ryanair ADSs had fallen to $80.93 per ADS, 36% below the Class Period high of more than $126 per 
ADS.
Plaintiff seeks to recover damages on behalf of all purchasers of Ryanair ADSs during the Class Period (the 
"Class"). The plaintiff is represented by Robbins Geller, which has extensive experience in prosecuting investor 
class actions including actions involving financial fraud.
Robbins Geller is one of the world's leading law firms representing investors in securities litigation. With 200 
lawyers in 10 offices, Robbins Geller has obtained many of the largest securities class action recoveries in history. 
For five consecutive years, ISS Securities Class Action Services has ranked the Firm in its annual SCAS Top 50 
Report as one of the top law firms in both amount recovered for shareholders and total number of class action 
settlements. Robbins Geller attorneys have helped shape the securities laws and recovered tens of billions of 
dollars on behalf of aggrieved victims. Beyond securing financial recoveries for defrauded investors, Robbins Geller 
also specializes in implementing corporate governance reforms, helping to improve the financial markets for 
investors worldwide. Please visit http://www.rgrdlaw.com for more information.
https://www.linkedin.com/company/rgrdlaw 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
https://twitter.com/rgrdlaw 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.facebook.com/rgrdlaw           https://plus.google.com/+Rgrdlaw/posts
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181106006066/en/
CONTACT: 
Robbins 
Geller 
Rudman 
& 
Dowd 
LLPSamuel 
H. 
Rudman, 
800-449-4900Brian 
E. 
Cochrandjr@rgrdlaw.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 7, 2018
End of Document
New Whitepaper Reveals Megatrends Shaping the Future of Travel
New Whitepaper Reveals Megatrends Shaping the Future of Travel
Business Wire
November 6, 2018 Tuesday 3:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 533 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Global market research company Euromonitor International released today a new report " Megatrends Shaping the 
Future of Travel " at World Travel Market (WTM) London, the leading travel and tourism event worldwide.
Caroline Bremner, head of travel research at Euromonitor International comments, "In a rapidly changing global 
environment, megatrend analysis is critical for companies seeking to drive sustainable growth and remain relevant 
as competition increases and new ideas disrupt entire industries."
The new research reveals how the travel industry is developing within the fast-changing global economic and social 
environment. Three key emerging travel industry trends identified by the report are:
The Joy of Missing Out #JOMO
Counter to FOMO (Fear of Missing Out), the Joy of Missing Out (JOMO) is an emerging trend as consumers are 
resisting the "always-on" mentality. Desire to unplug is spurred by a need for authenticity, privacy and the 
enjoyment of face-to-face, live experiences. Travel players such as Black Tomato are now offering alternative travel 
experiences helping travellers disconnect from their everyday lives and enjoy travel detox experiences away from 
civilisation.
Plastic Waste
High-profile events have greatly increased awareness amongst consumers of plastic's negative attributes. Many 
travel players have pledged to take action, aiming to end the use of plastic straws with alternatives such as edible, 
hyper-compostable straws. For instance, Europe's biggest budget operator Ryanair announced non-recyclable 
plastics will be completely removed from its aircraft by 2023.
Access economy taking flight
The access economy, where goods and services are traded on the basis of access rather than ownership, is 
booming. Travel is a sector revolutionised by players such as Airbnb and Uber, yet the access economy has the 
potential to transform many more areas with flights as the next possible category. While Voom offers helicopter 
New Whitepaper Reveals Megatrends Shaping the Future of Travel
rides booked through an Uber-style app, the city of Dubai is testing flying taxis and Wingly offers a booking platform 
where private pilots take passengers on trips - carpooling style.
Wouter Geerts, travel research consultant at Euromonitor International adds, "Going hand in hand with these 
trends, travellers continue to look for ever greater personalisation and authentic experiences. As destinations 
become overcrowded and fast-paced lives are the new normal, expectations will focus on bespoke and off-the-
beaten-track destinations. We expect the desire for greater personalisation to continue and grow throughout 2019."
Register now to receive a free copy of the report: http://bit.ly/travelmegatrends
ABOUT EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL
Euromonitor International is the world's leading provider for global business intelligence and strategic market 
analysis. We have more than 40 years of experience publishing international market reports, business reference 
books and online databases on consumer markets.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181106005037/en/
CONTACT: Arianna AnzaloniCommunications Executive - Euromonitor InternationalTel: 0044 (0) 20 7251 8024 
EXT 5587arianna.anzaloni@euromonitor.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 7, 2018
End of Document
Global Online Accommodation Booking Market 2018-2022: Nearly One-Half of Hotel Booking Revenues are 
Projected to Be Online by 2022 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Global Online Accommodation Booking Market 2018-2022: Nearly One-Half 
of Hotel Booking Revenues are Projected to Be Online by 2022 - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
October 30, 2018 Tuesday 3:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 414 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Global Online Accommodation Booking Market 2018" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's 
offering.
Online accommodation bookings are projected to see steady growth worldwide, increasing their share of the overall 
lodging market. By 2022, nearly one-half of hotel booking revenues are projected to be online, and an even higher 
share of short-term rentals.
A major part of the online accommodation market is controlled by online intermediaries, such as online travel 
agencies (OTAs). The world's top 2 OTAs, Booking Holdings and Expedia, together accounted for close to 1 trillion 
room nights booked in 2017, according to company data cited in the report. Direct suppliers, such as hotels, are 
recognizing the need to ramp up their loyalty programs and highlight experiences in order to respond to the OTA 
threat.
Another group of market players which challenge both OTAs and hotels in the online space are peer-to-peer 
accommodation sharing platforms, as the report reveals. Platforms such as Airbnb appeal especially to younger 
travelers. In the USA, the number of Airbnb users is projected to expand by more than 10 million between 2017 and 
2022, and in the UK close to one in three individuals made reservations from specialized peer-to-peer platforms and 
apps.
Another prominent market trend is the rise of the mobile channel. The trend is especially pronounced in Latin 
America, where a double-digit share of mobile Internet users in Mexico and Argentina booked travel lodging on a 
mobile device, according to surveys cited in the report.
Companies Featured
•
Agoda Company Pte. Ltd.
•
Airbnb, Inc.
•
Booking.com Ltd
Global Online Accommodation Booking Market 2018-2022: Nearly One-Half of Hotel Booking Revenues are 
Projected to Be Online by 2022 - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Choice Hotels AS
•
Ctrip.com International, Ltd.
•
Expedia Group, Inc.
•
Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.
•
Hotels.com
•
ibibo Group Private Ltd.
•
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC
•
MakeMyTrip Ltd
•
Marriott International Inc.
•
Qunar.com Inc.
•
priceline.com LLC
•
Rakuten Travel Inc.
•
Ryanair Holdings PLC
•
Traveloka Holding Ltd.
•
TripAdvisor, Inc.
•
Trivago N.V.
•
Tuniu Corporation
•
Wyndham Hotel Group, LLC
For 
more 
information 
about 
this 
report 
visit 
https://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/8v6pw5/global_online?w=4
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181030005780/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.comLaura Wood, Senior Press Managerpress@researchandmarkets.comFor 
E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630For GMT Office Hours Call 
+353-1-416-8900Related Topics: Hotels and Travel Accommodation ,            Travel Intermediaries
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 31, 2018
End of Document
CORRECTING and REPLACING New Relic Opens First European Region in Germany to Deliver the Power of 
the New Relic Platform to Customers Across Europe
CORRECTING and REPLACING New Relic Opens First European Region in 
Germany to Deliver the Power of the New Relic Platform to Customers 
Across Europe
Business Wire
October 23, 2018 Tuesday 10:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 569 words
Dateline: FRANKFURT, Germany 
Body
Please replace the release with the following corrected version due to revisions to the sixth paragraph.
The corrected release reads:
NEW RELIC OPENS FIRST EUROPEAN REGION IN GERMANY TO DELIVER THE POWER OF THE NEW 
RELIC PLATFORM TO CUSTOMERS ACROSS EUROPE
New Relic, Inc. (NYSE: NEWR), provider of real-time insights for software-driven businesses today announced that 
it has opened its first European Region, located in Frankfurt, Germany. Powered by the IBM Cloud, New Relic's 
European Region expands the company's ability to deliver New Relic products to customers in Germany and 
across the broader European Union.
"We are pleased to announce the opening of our first Region in Europe, enabling us to deliver the value of the New 
Relic platform with the enterprise-scale of the IBM Cloud," said Bruno Teuber, senior vice president, EMEA 
enterprise sales, New Relic. "Today's announcement demonstrates our continued commitment to supporting our 
expanding customer base across Europe, which includes more than 45 percent of EMEA-headquartered companies 
of the FORTUNE Global 500."
"While the initial phase of cloud was focused primarily on cost and efficiency, companies are now entering the next 
stage by turning their attention to the higher value that cloud brings to their business," said Yasser Eissa, Vice 
President, IBM Watson & Cloud Platform, Europe. "The New Relic platform on the IBM Cloud is helping enterprises 
in Europe take advantage of cloud services while maintaining security and control."
"As modern trends such as connected car and driverless digitally transform the automotive industry, ESG ensures 
these complex automated systems work together to deliver reliable experiences," said Stefan Röde, 
Projektmanager Vernetzte Dienste, ESG GmbH, Bereich Mobility. "We have demonstrated the scalability and 
CORRECTING and REPLACING New Relic Opens First European Region in Germany to Deliver the Power of 
the New Relic Platform to Customers Across Europe
manageability of digital mobility services using New Relic's European Region. It provides us with the flexibility and 
observability we need to run true DevOps systems."
"New Relic's European Region opened the door for Deutsche Börse to discover the power of the New Relic 
platform," said Christophe Mollière, Technical Advisor for Production, Clearstream International S.A., Deutsche 
Börse Group. "New Relic delivers powerful metrics about the performance of our digital systems, giving us a single 
place to understand how our customers experience our software."
Additional New Relic customers based in Europe include Irish Distillers, News UK, Ocado, Onefootball GmbH, 
Porsche AG, Ryanair, and WOW air. The company has European offices in Barcelona, Dublin, London, Munich, 
and Zurich.
About New Relic
New Relic provides the real-time insights that software-driven businesses need to innovate faster. New Relic's 
cloud platform makes every aspect of modern software and infrastructure observable, so companies can find and 
fix problems faster, build high-performing DevOps teams, and speed up transformation projects. Learn why more 
than 50% of the Fortune 100 trust New Relic at newrelic.com .
New Relic is a registered trademark of New Relic, Inc.
All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.
Facebook           Twitter           YouTube           LinkedIn
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181023005342/en/
CONTACT: New Relic, Inc.Media ContactAndrew Schmitt, 415-869-7109aschmitt@newrelic.comorInvestor 
ContactTony Righetti, 503-336-9280IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 25, 2018
End of Document
C.H. Guenther & Son Adds Expertise with Senior Advisers
C.H. Guenther & Son Adds Expertise with Senior Advisers
Business Wire
September 25, 2018 Tuesday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 606 words
Dateline: SAN ANTONIO 
Body
C.H. Guenther & Son (CHG) today announced that Kevin Hunt and Stan McCarthy have joined as senior advisers.
Kevin Hunt brings to CHG more than 45 years of senior management and food industry experience. Most recently, 
Hunt was the chief executive officer and president of Ralcorp Holdings, the largest private-label food company in 
North America, with over $4 billion in annual sales. He had been with Ralcorp and its predecessor entities for more 
than 25 years. Previously, Hunt held positions with American Home Products Corporation and Morton-Norwich 
Products. Additionally, Hunt serves on the board of directors of Clearwater Paper Corporation and Energizer 
Holdings.
Stan McCarthy comes to CHG with extensive food industry experience. Most recently, McCarthy was the chief 
executive officer of Kerry Group, a global leader in taste and nutrition. He had been with Kerry for more than 40 
years in various finance and management positions. Additionally, McCarthy serves on the board of directors of 
Ryanair Holdings. McCarthy is a chartered certified accountant.
CHG is based in San Antonio and is a producer of branded and private-label grain-based and other specialty food 
products. CHG operates out of 21 manufacturing locations in the U.S., Canada and Western Europe. The company 
is owned by PPC Partners along with management and other co-investors.
Dale Tremblay, CEO of CHG, said, "Kevin and Stan come to us with tremendous experience in the food industry 
and a wealth of knowledge that will help us to continue to innovate and support our customers. We are thrilled to 
add individuals with Kevin's and Stan's track records of success to the CHG family."
Tony Pritzker, chairman and CEO of PPC Partners, said, "Stan and Kevin are world-class leaders and respected 
food industry executives. As business-builders, we are committed to supporting CHG with the resources and talent 
necessary to provide the best products and service to our customers worldwide. We are fortunate to have Stan and 
Kevin as partners to help continue to grow CHG."
About C.H. Guenther & Son: San Antonio-headquartered C.H. Guenther & Son is a privately owned food 
manufacturer that has delivered high-quality products and "just baked from scratch" flavor for nearly 170 years. 
Founded in Texas in 1851, the global company employs more than 3,000 people in 21 manufacturing locations in 
the U.S., Canada and Western Europe. CHG is a leading supplier of value-added grain-based and frozen food 
C.H. Guenther & Son Adds Expertise with Senior Advisers
products for foodservice clients and select consumer markets. CHG's well-loved retail brands such as Pioneer, 
White Wings, Sun-Bird and Cuisine Adventures have been included at family meals for generations. Visit us at 
CHG.com .
About PPC Partners: PPC Partners acquires and operates North America-based middle-market companies with 
leading positions in the manufactured products, services and health care sectors. Led by Tony Pritzker and the 
former investment and operating professionals of Pritzker Group Private Capital, the firm's differentiated, long-
duration capital base allows for efficient decision-making, broad flexibility with transaction structure and investment 
horizon, and alignment with all stakeholders. PPC Partners builds businesses for the long term and is an ideal 
partner for entrepreneur- and family-owned companies. For more information, visit PPCPartners.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180925005112/en/
CONTACT: For C.H. Guenther & Son:Julie Vera, 210-352-6061Communications Managerjvera@chg.comorFor 
PPC Partners:Aileron CommunicationsMartha Arendt, 312-629-9400marendt@aileroninc.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 26, 2018
End of Document
10 Innovative Use Cases of IoT in the Transport and Logistics Sector - ResearchAndMarkets.com
10 Innovative Use Cases of IoT in the Transport and Logistics Sector - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
September 4, 2018 Tuesday 3:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 548 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Innovative Use Cases of IoT in the Transport and Logistics Sector" report has been added to 
ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
While the level of interest in the Internet of Things (IoT) has been on the rise among enterprises on a global scale in 
the transport and logistics sector, many of them face challenges in defining use cases that enable them to generate 
new sources of revenue. There is a need to gain new capabilities in terms of domain expertise and technical know-
how. Some enterprises have invested substantially in analytics platform and vertical expertise, others have entered 
into cross industry collaboration with enterprises outside their industry.
At the same time, if enterprises decide to rapidly implement IoT without changing their operating model, they face 
challenges in delivering the new solution. Regardless of how they go about doing it, IoT has enabled them to gain 
new insights that they did not have in the past to bring about new service offering that differentiate them from their 
competitors.
This report looks at how enterprises in the Transport and Logistics sector have found 10 use cases and have 
gained from IoT in the following ways:
•
Enhancing customers' experience while using sensors installed in cars to collecting real time information 
on traffic flow and drivers' behaviour
•
Diversifies between selling cars and renting cars on members' usage
•
Aiding the tourism sector and generating revenue by providing tourists with hotspot heat maps with a 
smartphone app.
•
Using small data to make incremental changes in their operational processes.
•
Gives authorized mechanics access to vehicle data to support servicing and components requirements.
•
The E-bike Management system was developed in an effort to reduce the number of cars on the road.
•
Using big data analytics to understand consumers' purchasing behaviour as they no longer go for the 
cheapest tickets.
10 Innovative Use Cases of IoT in the Transport and Logistics Sector - ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Adapting ways to alleviate traffic condition by resolving congestion together with the private sector 
companies.
•
Adopting a variety of ways to collect data on real time traffic patterns, developing capabilities rapidly 
through acquisitions to deliver more data.
•
The use of big data analytics to determine the lowest costs of truck configuration for fleet operators.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Executive Summary
•
Scope Of The Study And Key Questions
•
Ryanair Uses Big Data To Drive Grow
•
Inrix Selling Big Data To Fleet Operators And Transport Agencies
•
Taxi Stockholm Creates New Service Application For Tourists
•
BMW's Drivenow Car Sharing Business Model
•
Land Transport Authority Of Singapore
•
Audi Collects Data From Its Customers
•
The E-Bike Management System In Italy
•
UPS Collects Data To Monitor Everything
•
Volvo Prognostic Solution For Fleet Managers
•
Navistar On-Command Component Retailing
•
Growth Opportunities And Companies To Action
•
Conclusion
For 
more 
information 
about 
this 
report 
visit 
https://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/v8hlj2/10_innovative_use?w=4
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180904005625/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.comLaura Wood, Senior Managerpress@researchandmarkets.comFor E.S.T 
Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-
416-8900Related Topics: Logistics ,            Internet of Things and M2M
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 5, 2018
End of Document
Europe's Digital Leaders Trust New Relic for Successful Cloud Transformations Company Continues EMEA 
Expansion With New London Office and Central Europe Sales L....
Europe's Digital Leaders Trust New Relic for Successful Cloud 
Transformations; Company Continues EMEA Expansion With New London 
Office and Central Europe Sales Leader; FutureStack Event Series Expands 
to Reach Customers Across Europe This Fall
Business Wire
August 2, 2018 Thursday 7:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 1401 words
Dateline: LONDON & ZURICH 
Body
New Relic, Inc. (NYSE: NEWR), provider of real-time insights for software-driven businesses continues to grow the 
company's go-to-market team and programs to serve customers within the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 
region. Among EMEA-based companies, this includes Careem, CHECK24 Vergleichsportal GmbH, Irish Distillers, 
News UK, Ocado, OLX Group, Onefootball GmbH, Porsche AG, Ryanair, Trainline, and WOW air.
A critical piece to this success is New Relic's global alignment with Amazon Web Services (AWS) and the 
companies work together to ensure the success of their joint customers' cloud investments at every point of the 
adoption journey. Offering a single platform with visibility into modern technologies, New Relic enables companies 
to get real-time feedback on the impact of software deployments, resolve customer-facing performance issues, and 
optimize their spend and the performance of cloud environments.
With businesses adopting the cloud at record rates and seeking to deliver reliable software faster, New Relic is the 
trusted partner for over 45 per cent of EMEA-headquartered companies of the FORTUNE Global 500.
"I'm extremely proud of the achievements of New Relic EMEA team in helping our customers move forward with 
speed and confidence in their new digital business models. Our ongoing collaboration with AWS -- a critical driver 
for so many transformation initiatives of leading disruptors and enterprises across the region -- is an important 
component to the rapid adoption of the New Relic platform across industries including retail, media, gaming, and 
financial services as they modernize their software architectures," said Bruno Teuber, senior vice president, EMEA 
enterprise sales, New Relic.
"Onefootball tells the world's football stories to millions of sports fans all around the globe through our flexible, 
scalable infrastructure with Golang and Kubernetes on AWS. New Relic allows us to understand our infrastructure 
utilization from the container orchestration layer to cloud instance, and ultimately the relationship of these services 
to the performance of our applications. This visibility enables us to monitor changes and confidently identify any 
Europe's Digital Leaders Trust New Relic for Successful Cloud Transformations Company Continues EMEA 
Expansion With New London Office and Central Europe Sales L....
issues quickly when they arise," said Holger Hammel, vice president, engineering at Onefootball GmbH, a media 
platform founded and headquartered in Berlin, for global football fans to get news, scores, and statistics for club and 
international teams.
Expanding Throughout EMEA to Deliver Customer Success
The company has ongoing growth in its offices in Barcelona, London, Munich, and Zurich with over 200 full-time 
employees across the EMEA region. Recently, to continue the company's close partnership with Britain's enterprise 
leaders in helping them tackle the complexity of modern software and accelerate their pace of innovation, New 
Relic has opened a new office in Central London led by Mark Fieldhouse, vice president, Northern Europe.
New Relic's success and continued opportunity to help EMEA-based enterprises accelerate their cloud and DevOps 
transformations are also attracting industry leaders. Carlo Pacifico has joined the company as vice president, 
Central Europe. Pacifico joins from AWS where he had a highly successful 4.5-year tenure and will help New Relic 
determine where to invest and drive growth in the market.
"As I meet with senior IT executives from large enterprises in all vertical segments across all countries in the region, 
I see massive changes in attitudes, processes, and technologies towards digitalisation. I've found that successful 
companies are rapidly embracing emerging technologies including cloud, containers, and microservices in addition 
to adopting modern service delivery approaches such as DevOps to increase the pace of innovation. I am excited to 
be part of the New Relic team because we're at the forefront of these modern technology trends and at an inflection 
point in customer adoption of these technologies and processes," said Carlo Pacifico, vice president, Central 
Europe, New Relic.
Executing on Product Strategy from EMEA
New Relic's European Development Centre in Barcelona has rapidly grown from initially tackling data visualization 
projects to become home of the core team behind the company's fastest growing product,            New Relic 
Infrastructure , with responsibilities for product management, user experience, and full-stack services. Most notably 
over the past year this team has            more than tripled the integrations to Amazon Web Services, Microsoft 
Azure, and Google Cloud Platform services. Other key product milestones by the Barcelona team include 
integrations for on-host infrastructure components including            Kubernetes and the            New Relic 
Infrastructure SDK .
"It's a privilege to have been part of New Relic's Barcelona office since its launch and see it become a complete 
development centre, involved in some of the company's most strategic product initiatives. The combination of New 
Relic's strong engineering culture and the ability to engage directly with customers across the EMEA region has 
been a winning combination for us to bring in amazing people to grow their careers in any role they choose," said 
Pierre Papera, vice president, engineering and general manager, Barcelona, New Relic.
FutureStack Returns to Accelerate Europe's Digital Transformation
For the third consecutive year, New Relic is bringing the FutureStack event series to the United Kingdom and 
Europe. Beginning in London on 2 October 2018 at Kings Place, the company will be hosting its popular day-long 
events featuring unique perspectives on modern software development and digital performance management, real-
world success stories from customers, New Relic University certification training, and more. The events will 
continue throughout October and November across the continent with planned events in Amsterdam, Berlin, 
Madrid, Munich, Paris, Stockholm, and Zurich.
Keep up-to-date with FutureStack updates at futurestack.com .
All events, dates, prices, topics and speakers are subject to change without notice.
About New Relic
Europe's Digital Leaders Trust New Relic for Successful Cloud Transformations Company Continues EMEA 
Expansion With New London Office and Central Europe Sales L....
New Relic provides the real-time insights that software-driven businesses need to innovate faster. New Relic's 
cloud platform makes every aspect of modern software and infrastructure observable, so companies can find and 
fix problems faster, build high-performing DevOps teams, and speed up transformation projects. Learn why more 
than 50 per cent of the Fortune 100 trust New Relic at newrelic.com .
Social Media Links: Facebook |            Twitter |            YouTube |            LinkedIn
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements, as that term is defined under the federal securities laws, 
including but not limited to statements regarding Carlo Pacifico joining the company as vice president of enterprise 
sales, Central Europe, New Relic's FutureStack events, including timing and locations, as well as market trends, 
analysis and opportunity. The achievement or success of the matters covered by such forward-looking statements 
are based on New Relic's current assumptions, expectations, and beliefs and are subject to substantial risks, 
uncertainties, assumptions, and changes in circumstances that may cause New Relic's actual results, performance, 
or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. Further 
information on factors that could affect New Relic's financial and other results and the forward-looking statements in 
this press release is included in the filings New Relic makes with the SEC from time to time, including in New 
Relic's most recent Form 10-K, particularly under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Copies of these documents may be obtained by visiting 
New Relic's Investor Relations website at https://ir.newrelic.com or the SEC's website at            www.sec.gov . New 
Relic assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by 
law.
New Relic is a registered trademark of New Relic, Inc.
All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180802005144/en/
CONTACT: New Relic, Inc.
Media Contact
Steve Naventi, 650-517-7857
snaventi@newrelic.com
or
Investor Contact
Jonathan Parker, 503-336-9280
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Analysis & Industry Forecast 2017-2023, With an Expected CAGR of 8.6% - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Analysis & Industry Forecast 2017-2023, 
With an Expected CAGR of 8.6% - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
July 2, 2018 Monday 1:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 472 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Low Cost Airlines Market by Purpose, Destination, and Distribution Channel - Global Opportunity Analysis and 
Industry Forecast, 2017-2023" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The global low cost airlines market was valued at $117,726 million in 2016, and is projected to reach $207,816 
million in 2023, registering a CAGR of 8.6% from 2017 to 2023.
Low cost airlines are passenger airlines, which offer travelling service tickets at relatively cheaper rate compared to 
other airlines (full service or traditional airline). Low cost airlines are also known as no frills airlines, prizefighters, 
low-cost carriers (LCC), discount airlines, and budget airlines. Some of the popular low cost airlines include Ryanair 
and EasyJet.
The growth of the market is attributed to the rise in economic activity, ease of travel, travel & tourism industry, 
urbanization, changes in lifestyle, consumers preference for low cost service along with non-stops, and frequent 
service, increase in purchasing power of middle class households especially in the developing regions, and high 
internet penetration coupled with e-literacy.
In 2016, the global scheduled airline passenger was estimated to be 3.8 billion, and around 28% of these 
passengers were carried by low cost airlines. However, the distribution/penetration of low cost airlines is equally 
distributed. For instance, in Latvia, Europe, around 80% of the passengers are flown by low-cost carriers, whereas, 
in Africa, nearly half of the countries have no low cost airline service.
In 2016, the leisure travel segment was the leading revenue contributor to the global market. However, the market 
is significantly expanding into the business travel segment, thus the business travel segment is expected to witness 
lucrative growth rate during the forecast period.
Companies Mentioned:
•
Airasia Inc.
•
Virgin America
Global Low Cost Airlines Market Analysis & Industry Forecast 2017-2023, With an Expected CAGR of 8.6% - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
•
Norwegian Air Shuttle As
•
easyJet plc
•
Jetstar Airways Pty Ltd.
•
WestJet Airlines Ltd.
•
Indigo, LLC
•
Azul Linhas Areas Brasileiras S.A.
•
Ryanair Holdings plc
•
Air Arabia PJSC
Key Topics Covered:
Chapter 1: Introduction
Chapter 2: Executive Summary
Chapter 3: Market Overview
Chapter 4: Low Cost Airlines Market, By Purpose
Chapter 5: Low Cost Airlines Market, By Destination
Chapter 6: Low Cost Airlines Market, By Distribution Channel
Chapter 7: Low Cost Airlines Market, By Region
Chapter 8: Company Profiles
For 
more 
information 
about 
this 
report 
visit 
https://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/wx6mhl/global_low_cost?w=4
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180702005556/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
Related Topics: Commercial Aerospace ,            Air Travel
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 3, 2018
End of Document
Airlines Reputation Analysis 2018: 10 Major Brands Analyzed Based on 6.3 Million Mentions in International 
Print, Online and Social Media - ResearchAndMarkets.c....
Airlines Reputation Analysis 2018: 10 Major Brands Analyzed Based on 6.3 
Million Mentions in International Print, Online and Social Media - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
May 15, 2018 Tuesday 10:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Transportation Writers
Length: 247 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Reputation Analysis Airlines 2018" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
This study is based on 6.3 million brand mentions in international media containing print, online and social media in 
connection with ten airlines. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) show different aspects of airline reputation in 
comparison.
Analyzed Brands
•
Air France
•
Austrian Airlines
•
British Airways
•
EasyJet
•
Eurowings
•
KLM
•
Lufthansa
•
Ryanair
•
Swiss
•
United Airlines
Method: Mentions in about 15,000 international print, 750,000 online, and 250 million social media in seven 
languages have been analyzed for the study
Period of Analysis: December 2016 - November 2017
Airlines Reputation Analysis 2018: 10 Major Brands Analyzed Based on 6.3 Million Mentions in International 
Print, Online and Social Media - ResearchAndMarkets.c....
Region: Seven language areas (Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish)
Calculations: Rankings and Statistical Reputation Positioning
Key Topics Covered
1. Management Summary
2. Research Design
3. Media Presence
4. Brand Health
5. Brand Promoter Score
6. Brand Perception
7. Brand Strategy
8. Reputation Risk
9. Brand Sustainability
10. Reputation Positioning
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/2tlnrn/airlines?w=4
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180515005753/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
Related Topics: Commercial Aerospace ,            Air Travel
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 16, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Goes All-In on AWS Europe's number one airline chooses AWS for the broadest and deepest portfolio 
of cloud services, unmatched reliability, global scale....
Ryanair Goes All-In on AWS; Europe's number one airline chooses AWS for 
the broadest and deepest portfolio of cloud services, unmatched reliability, 
global scale, and massive compute power
Business Wire
May 10, 2018 Thursday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 953 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Today, Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS), an Amazon.com company (NASDAQ: AMZN), announced that Ryanair 
(NASDAQ: RYAAY) is moving its infrastructure to AWS-going all-in on the world's leading cloud-to transform the 
digital experience for its over 130 million customers, and plans to close the vast majority of its datacenters over the 
next three years. The leading European airline already runs several core production workloads on AWS, such as 
Ryanair Rooms and Ryanair.com, and is building a company-wide data lake on Amazon S3, leveraging Amazon 
Kinesis to gain deeper insights from customer and business data. Ryanair is rebuilding and transforming legacy 
systems into cloud-based, innovative customer travel services by standardizing on various AWS services, including 
AWS databases, analytics, machine learning, and deep learning services.
With AWS, Ryanair is able to rapidly innovate, optimize costs, deploy globally, and become a more agile 
organization in the cloud. After Ryanair rebuilt Ryanair Rooms on AWS, its customers can now easily compare 
millions of hotel deals and accommodations without interruption or delays. Ryanair is working with the AWS ML 
Solutions Lab to create an application that enables the company to automatically detect surges in demand for flight 
segments and anticipate schedule changes. In addition, by migrating from Microsoft SQL Server to Amazon Aurora, 
Ryanair can now run one of the largest email marketing campaigns in Europe with higher performance at a fraction 
of the cost, sending out 22 million emails daily to customers about travel bookings or sales events.
"We've chosen to work with the world's leading cloud to develop and deliver services that will transform our 
customers' travel experiences. By rebuilding core applications, converting data into actionable insights, and creating 
intelligent applications, we are putting the solutions in place to continue our leadership in the travel industry," said 
John Hurley, Chief Technology Officer at Ryanair. "Machine learning is hugely important to our growth, and we're 
pursuing a variety of AWS machine learning services, including Amazon SageMaker, to enhance customer UI 
experience and personalize the MyRyanair portal for every unique traveler. We're currently trialing Amazon Lex to 
enhance our customer support experience, by intelligently routing customer support requests to the right type of 
assistance-whether that be a customer support representative or an artificial intelligence-driven interaction. We 
Ryanair Goes All-In on AWS Europe's number one airline chooses AWS for the broadest and deepest portfolio 
of cloud services, unmatched reliability, global scale....
were also one of the first companies in Europe to support Amazon Alexa, and created the MyRyanair skill for 
Amazon Alexa to handle account booking, flight inquiries, and frequently asked questions."
"Leaders in the airline industry, like many large enterprises, are using AWS in a meaningful way to evolve their 
businesses and innovate on behalf of their customers. They're deploying new applications to the cloud by default, 
and looking to migrate as many of their existing applications as they can as quickly as possible," said Mike 
Clayville, Vice President, Worldwide Commercial Sales at AWS. "Because we have the most comprehensive set of 
cloud services, including our leading machine learning and deep learning services, Ryanair will be able to employ 
those services to drive greater customer and employee satisfaction. We're excited to help them create first-class 
experiences on AWS as they continue to use our capabilities and services at an accelerated pace."
About Amazon Web Services
For over 12 years, Amazon Web Services has been the world's most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud 
platform. AWS offers over 125 fully featured services for compute, storage, databases, networking, analytics, 
machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, security, hybrid, virtual and 
augmented reality (VR and AR), media, and application development, deployment, and management from 54 
Availability Zones (AZs) within 18 geographic regions and one Local Region around the world, spanning the U.S., 
Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Japan, Korea, Singapore, and the UK. AWS 
services are trusted by millions of active customers around the world-including the fastest-growing startups, largest 
enterprises, and leading government agencies-to power their infrastructure, make them more agile, and lower 
costs. To learn more about AWS, visit https://aws.amazon.com .
About Amazon
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, 
commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized 
recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, 
Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit 
www.amazon.com/about and follow            @AmazonNews .
About Ryanair
Ryanair is Europe's Number 1 airline, carrying over 130m customers p.a. on more than 2,000 daily flights from 85 
bases, connecting 216 destinations in 37 countries on a fleet of 430 Boeing 737 aircraft, with a further 240 Boeing 
737's on order, which will enable Ryanair to lower fares and grow traffic to 200m customers p.a. by FY24. Ryanair 
has a team of more than 13,000 highly skilled aviation professionals delivering Europe's No.1 on-time performance, 
and an industry leading 33-year safety record.
In 2017, Ryanair became the first European airline to have carried over 1 billion customers.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180509006648/en/
CONTACT: Amazon.com, Inc.
Media Hotline
Amazon-pr@amazon.com
www.amazon.com/pr
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 11, 2018
Ryanair Goes All-In on AWS Europe's number one airline chooses AWS for the broadest and deepest portfolio 
of cloud services, unmatched reliability, global scale....
End of Document
IFALPA Conference Statement on Ryanair
IFALPA Conference Statement on Ryanair
Business Wire
March 19, 2018 Monday 11:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: International News Desks; Business Editors; Airline Writers; Labor Writers
Length: 194 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
The global pilot community supports the common and transnational efforts of the Ryanair Pilots in their quest for fair 
and equitable terms and conditions and secure, stable employment.
The 73rd IFALPA Conference calls on Ryanair management to respect this wish of its pilots and to enter into fair 
and meaningful negotiations.
Note to Editors: The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations represents more than 100,000 pilots in 
nearly 100 countries around the globe. The mission of IFALPA isto promote the highest level of aviation safety 
worldwideand to be the global advocate of the piloting profession; providing representation, services and support to 
both our members and the aviation industry.
Federation website www.ifalpa.org
©2018 The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' AssociationsIt may not be offered of sale or used 
commercially. All reprints must credit IFALPA.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180319005583/en/
CONTACT: International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations
Emily Bitting
IFALPA Communications & Marketing Coordinator
+1 514 419 1191 ext. 228
emilybitting@ifalpa.org
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 20, 2018
IFALPA Conference Statement on Ryanair
End of Document
Morocco Tourist Destination Market Insights 2017: Analysis of Source Markets, Infrastructure and Attractions, 
Risks and Opportunities - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Morocco Tourist Destination Market Insights 2017: Analysis of Source 
Markets, Infrastructure and Attractions, Risks and Opportunities - 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Business Wire
February 1, 2018 Thursday 10:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 472 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
The "Destination Market Insights: Morocco - Analysis of source markets, infrastructure and attractions, risks and 
opportunities" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The report "Destination Market Insights: Morocco" provides in-depth analysis of a tourist destination, in this case for 
Morocco.
Morocco is one of Africa's leading tourist markets, with more than 10 million visitors in 2016. The country aims to 
grow the industry significantly, with the Moroccan Department of Tourism's 2020 Tourism Strategy hoping to double 
the size of the tourist industry, and make Morocco one of the top 20 tourist destinations in the world. As tourist 
numbers rise quickly, there has been a consequent surge in hotel construction. Between 2016 and 2021, the 
number of hotels in Morocco is expected to increase by 30.8%.
France is by far the largest inbound market for tourists to Morocco, accounting for 36.1% of arrivals in 2016, 
followed by Spain (14.5%). Similarly, France is the largest outbound market for Moroccans. The main purpose for 
tourism to Morocco is currently visiting friends and relatives (VFR), accounting for 48.2% of arrivals in 2016.
In 2016, 74.7% of arrivals were from Europe, with the largest inbound markets being France, Spain, and the UK. 
However, the country has recently attempted to diversify its inbound market, and in 2016 witnessed a significant 
jump from tourist markets outside of Europe, including China, Japan, South Korea, Brazil and Russia.
Morocco's largest inbound markets (France, followed by Spain, the UK and Belgium) have been badly affected by 
the recent occurrences of terror attacks in Europe. Witnessing these events in their home countries could instill a 
higher level of cautiousness in travelers when deciding where to visit; if tourists from these countries view Morocco 
as unsafe this will negatively impact Morocco's tourist industry.
The report explores the locations largest inbound tourist markets, infrastructure and attractions, as well as risks and 
opportunities. The report provides clear insight into current and future tourism developments in the country.
Morocco Tourist Destination Market Insights 2017: Analysis of Source Markets, Infrastructure and Attractions, 
Risks and Opportunities - ResearchAndMarkets.com
Companies mentioned in this report:
•
Qatar Airways
•
Ryanair
•
Hyatt
•
Radisson
•
Movenpick Hotels & Resorts
•
Air France
•
Wizz Air
•
Hilton
•
Four Seaons
•
Mandarin Oriental
Key Topics Covered:
1. Overview
2. Source markets
3. Infrastructure and attractions
4. Risk analysis
5. Appendix
For 
more 
information 
about 
this 
report 
visit 
https://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/7mf5nq/morocco_tourist?w=4
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180201005529/en/
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
Related Topics: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 2, 2018
End of Document
IMPORTANT SHAREHOLDER ALERT: Khang & Khang LLP Announces an Investigation of Ryanair Holdings 
plc and Encourages Investors With Losses to Contact the Firm
IMPORTANT SHAREHOLDER ALERT: Khang & Khang LLP Announces an 
Investigation of Ryanair Holdings plc and Encourages Investors With Losses 
to Contact the Firm
Business Wire
October 19, 2017 Thursday 6:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 267 words
Dateline: IRVINE, Calif. 
Body
Khang & Khang LLP (the "Firm") announces that it is investigating claims against Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or 
the "Company") (Nasdaq: RYAAY) concerning possible violations of federal securities laws.
If you purchased shares of Ryanair and want more information, please contact Joon M. Khang, Esquire, of Khang & 
Khang LLP, 4000 Barranca Parkway, Suite 250, Irvine, CA 92604, by telephone: (949) 419-3834, or by e-mail at 
joon@khanglaw.com
The investigation concerns whether Ryanair and certain of its officers and/or directors violated federal securities 
laws. On September 15, 2017, the Company announced that it would cancel over 2,000 flights due to delays and 
strikes prompted by staffing issues with its pilots and cabin crew. On September 27, 2017, the Company 
announced that it would cancel 18,000 more flights, affecting about 400,000 passengers, again citing staffing 
issues.The next day, the U.K.'s Civil Aviation Authority initiated an enforcement action against the Company for 
"persistently misleading passengers" about their rights. When this news was announced, shares of Ryanair 
declined in value.
If you have any questions concerning this notice or your rights, please contact Joon M. Khang, a prominent litigator 
for almost two decades, by telephone: (949) 419-3834, or by e-mail at joon@khanglaw.com
This press release may constitute Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20171019006308/en/
CONTACT: Khang & Khang LLP
Joon M. Khang, Esq.
Telephone: 949-419-3834
Facsimile: 949-225-4474
IMPORTANT SHAREHOLDER ALERT: Khang & Khang LLP Announces an Investigation of Ryanair Holdings 
plc and Encourages Investors With Losses to Contact the Firm
joon@khanglaw.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 20, 2017
End of Document
IFALPA Supports ALPA -I's Assistance to Ryanair Pilots
IFALPA Supports ALPA-I's Assistance to Ryanair Pilots
Business Wire
October 19, 2017 Thursday 6:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: International News Desks; National Desks; Airline Writers
Length: 332 words
Dateline: MONTREAL 
Body
The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations (IFALPA) strongly supports the decision made by the 
Air Line Pilots Association, Int'l (ALPA-I) to provide financial, logistical and staff support for the recent unionization 
efforts by pilots at Europe's Ryanair.
In a press release today, ALPA-I stated "We stand united with our brothers and sisters at Ryanair, and are prepared 
to provide them with the help and support they need to win this fight."
"Pushing back against destructive atypical employment models is crucial for the future of our profession. The 
combined resources and the vast experience IFALPA Member Associations offer is undoubtedly beneficial to 
Ryanair pilots who are working to secure their careers through union representation," added Captain Ron Abel, 
IFALPA President.
The Federation will continue to support its Member Associations' efforts in providing help to the Ryanair pilots in 
their struggle to gain direct employment and collectively bargain improvements to their wages and working 
conditions at Ryanair.
Note to Editors: The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations represents more than 100,000 pilots in 
nearly 100 countries around the globe. The mission of IFALPA isto promote the highest level of aviation safety 
worldwideand to be the global advocate of the piloting profession; providing representation, services and support to 
both our members and the aviation industry.
See the Federation website www.ifalpa.org
©2017 The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' AssociationsIn the interests of flight safety, reproduction of 
this Press Release in whole or in part is encouraged.It may not be offered of sale or used commercially. All reprints 
must credit IFALPA.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20171019006372/en/
CONTACT: International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations
IFALPA Supports ALPA -I's Assistance to Ryanair Pilots
Anna Lou, IFALPA Communications & Marketing Coordinator
+1 514 419 1191 ext. 228
annalou@ifalpa.org
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 20, 2017
End of Document
SHAREHOLDER ALERT: Goldberg Law PC Announces an Investigation of Ryanair Holdings plc
SHAREHOLDER ALERT: Goldberg Law PC Announces an Investigation of 
Ryanair Holdings plc
Business Wire
October 18, 2017 Wednesday 8:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Legal Editors
Length: 337 words
Dateline: LOS ANGELES 
Body
Goldberg Law PC , a national shareholder rights litigation firm, announces that it is investigating claims on behalf of 
investors of Ryanair Holdings plc ("Ryanair" or the "Company") (Nasdaq: RYAAY).
If you purchased or otherwise acquired Ryanair shares, and would like more information about the investigation, we 
encourage you to contact Michael Goldberg or Brian Schall, of Goldberg Law PC, 1999 Avenue of the Stars, Suite 
1100, Los Angeles, CA 90067, at 800-977-7401, to discuss your rights without cost to you.
You can also reach us through the firm's website at http://www.Goldberglawpc.com , or by email at 
info@goldberglawpc.com
The investigation focuses on whether Ryanair and certain of its officers and/or directors violated federal securities 
laws. On September 15, 2017, the Company announced that it would cancel over 2,000 flights due to delays and 
strikes prompted by staffing issues with its pilots and cabin crew. On September 27, 2017, Ryanair announced that 
it would cancel 18,000 more flights, affecting about 400,000 passengers, again citing staffing issues.The next day, 
the United Kingdom's Civil Aviation Authority initiated an enforcement action against the Company for "persistently 
misleading passengers" about their rights. Following this news, Ryanair's stock price dropped.
If you have any questions concerning your legal rights, please immediately contact Goldberg Law PC at 800-977-
7401, or visit our website at http://www.Goldberglawpc.com , or email us at info@goldberglawpc.com
Goldberg Law PC represents investors around the world, and specializes in securities class action lawsuits and 
shareholder rights litigation.
This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and rules 
of ethics.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20171018006597/en/
SHAREHOLDER ALERT: Goldberg Law PC Announces an Investigation of Ryanair Holdings plc
CONTACT: Goldberg Law PC, Los Angeles
Michael Goldberg, Esq., 800-977-7401
Brian Schall, Esq., 800-977-7401
info@goldberglawpc.com
http://www.Goldberglawpc.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 19, 2017
End of Document
M Science Launches M Analysis and M Data Coverage of Global Airline Industry; Unique Dataset to Track 
Thousands of Flights Across 500 Airports in U.S. and Europ....
M Science Launches M Analysis and M Data Coverage of Global Airline 
Industry; Unique Dataset to Track Thousands of Flights Across 500 Airports 
in U.S. and Europe
Business Wire
September 18, 2017 Monday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Technology Editors
Length: 467 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
M Science, the leader and pioneer in data driven research and analytics, today announced the launch of M Analysis 
and M Data on the global airline industry. The firm will leverage its unique dataset and proprietary technology to 
track several key industry metrics including unit economic indicators like passenger revenue per available seat mile 
(PRASM) and revenue per seat (RPS) along with rarely disclosed pricing trends at specific airports.
"Airline industry dynamics can change faster than the weather," noted Michael V. Marrale, M Science CEO. "We are 
monitoring thousands of flights across more than 500 airports globally, giving us unmatched insight into market-
moving trends before they become widely apparent. This is just another example of how M Science helps our 
clients make more informed and calculated business and investment decisions."
M Science analysts will also monitor route-level data, which can be used to evaluate the size and scope of airfare 
wars and track the new "basic economy" pricing some airlines have introduced relative to fares on discount, no-frills 
competitors.
Airlines have been among the market's best performing sectors over the past year, generating a return greater than 
25-percent. The initial M Analysis coverage universe will include a total of 11 airlines, including network, low-cost 
and ultra-low-cost carriers in both the United States and abroad. These include: Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, 
American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Hawaiian Airlines, Spirit Airlines and United Airlines, along with European-based 
easyJet, Ryanair and Wizz Air. A monthly M Data product covering these companies will also be available.
This new offering complements M Science's current product suite of M Analysis and M Data which cover over 400 
companies and sub brands across U.S. Consumer, European Consumer and TMT.
About M Science
M Science is a data-driven research and analytics firm, uncovering new insights for leading financial institutions and 
corporations. M Science is revolutionizing research, discovering new data sets and pioneering methodologies to 
M Science Launches M Analysis and M Data Coverage of Global Airline Industry; Unique Dataset to Track 
Thousands of Flights Across 500 Airports in U.S. and Europ....
provide actionable intelligence. Our research teams have decades of experience working with massive amounts of 
unstructured data in near real-time to discern critical insights that help clients make smarter, more informed 
decisions. We combine the best of finance, data and technology to create a truly unique value proposition for both 
financial services firms and major corporations.
M Science was founded as Majestic Research and in 2016 was spun out to form M Science, a portfolio company of 
Leucadia National Corporation (NYSE: LUK).
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170918005252/en/
CONTACT: Press Inquiries:
Edelman
Emily Rose, 212-738-6066
Emily.Rose@edelman.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 19, 2017
End of Document
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results; Revenue 
increased 37% year-over-year to $80.1 million; Record cash provided by 
operating activities and record non-GAAP free cash flow
Business Wire
August 3, 2017 Thursday 8:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Financial Analysts; Technology Editors
Length: 4050 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
Digital Intelligence leader New Relic, Inc. (NYSE:NEWR) today announced financial results for the first fiscal 
quarter ended June 30, 2017.
"Our strong first quarter results reflect our continued ability to add innovative and important enterprise brands to our 
growing base of paid business accounts with more than $100,000 in annualized recurring revenue (ARR)," said 
Lew Cirne, CEO and founder of New Relic. "We are uniquely positioned to help enterprises ensure the success of 
their digital initiatives, with real-time insights into the performance of their infrastructure, applications and customer 
experience."
First Quarter 2018 Financial Highlights:
•
Revenue of $80.1 million, growing 37% year-over-year, and up 9% sequentially from the fourth quarter of 
fiscal 2017.
•
GAAP loss from operations was $(16.4) million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to $(18.0) 
million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Non-GAAP loss from operations was $(5.4) million for the first 
quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to $(9.8) million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
•
GAAP net loss per share was $(0.30) for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 based on 53.7 million weighted-
average shares outstanding, compared to $(0.36) for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 based on 50.2 million 
weighted-average shares outstanding. Non-GAAP net loss per share was $(0.09) for the first quarter of 
fiscal 2018, compared to $(0.20) for the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
•
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $227.3 million at the end of the first quarter of 
fiscal 2018, compared with $206.4 million at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
Customer Highlights:
•
Paid Business Accounts as of June 30, 2017 of over 15,400.
•
49% of ARR from Enterprise Paid Business Accounts.
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
•
Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 of 113%.
•
New or expanded customers in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 included: ACT, Inc., Agora, Inc., 
Ancestry.com, Ascend Learning, Ascensus Inc., Cox Enterprises, Discovery Communications, Fiserv Inc., 
GeoPost UK Ltd., H&R Block, Ladbrokes Coral Group PLC, Medibank Private Limited, News Corp, 
Northwestern University, OLX Brasil, Quicken Inc., Ryanair Holdings, Scripps Networks, Testo SE& Co 
KGaA, TiVo Corporation, William Hill PLC and World Fuel Services.
First Quarter & Recent Business Highlights:
•
Announced intention to launch the first European availability zone in Germany during 2018.
•
Completed standing-room only FutureStack Global Tour events in London and Berlin, with the flagship 
FutureStack event to be held in New York, on September 13-14.
•
Introduced Health Map , capable of bringing together the power of New Relic APM and New Relic 
Infrastructure to deliver the first solution that clearly shows the relationship between application and 
infrastructure health data.
•
Extended the availability of Project Seymour, New Relic's advanced AI technology, to additional customers.
•
Delivered new integrations across cloud services including AWS Elasticsearch Service, AWS Billing and 
Cost Management, and Amazon EC2 Container Registry, extending the capabilities of New Relic 
Infrastructure.
Outlook:
New Relic is initiating its outlook for its second quarter of fiscal 2018, as well as updating its outlook for the full fiscal 
year 2018. New Relic has not reconciled its expectations as to non-GAAP loss from operations or non-GAAP net 
loss per share to their most directly comparable GAAP measure because certain items, namely stock-based 
compensation, lawsuit litigation expenses and employer payroll taxes on equity incentive plans, are out of New 
Relic's control and cannot be reasonably predicted. Accordingly, reconciliation is not available without unreasonable 
effort, although it is important to note that these factors could be material to New Relic's results computed in 
accordance with GAAP.
•
Second Quarter Fiscal 2018 Outlook:
•
Revenue between $81.8 million and $83.3 million, representing year-over-year growth of between 29% 
and 31%, respectively.
•
Non-GAAP loss from operations of between $(5.0) million and $(6.0) million.
•
Non-GAAP net loss per share of between $(0.09) and $(0.11). This assumes 54.7 million weighted 
average common shares outstanding.
•
Updated Full Year Fiscal 2018 Outlook:
•
Revenue between $344.0 million and $348.0 million, representing year-over-year growth of between 
31% and 32%, and an increase from prior guidance of between $341.5 million and $346.5 million that 
was issued on May 9, 2017.
•
Non-GAAP loss from operations of between $(14.0) million and $(17.0) million.
•
Non-GAAP net loss per share of between $(0.23) and $(0.28). This assumes 55.4 million weighted 
average common shares outstanding.
Conference Call Details:
•
What: New Relic financial results for the first quarter fiscal 2018 and outlook for the second quarter and the 
full year of fiscal 2018
•
When: August 3, 2017 at 2:00 P.M. Pacific Time (5:00 P.M. Eastern Time)
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
•
Dial in: To access the call in the U.S., please dial (877) 201-0168, and for international callers, please dial 
(647) 788-4901. Callers may provide confirmation number 47077419 to access the call more quickly, and 
are encouraged to dial into the call 10 to 15 minutes prior to the start to prevent any delay in joining.
•
Webcast: http://ir.newrelic.com (live and replay)
•
Replay: Following the completion of the call through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on August 10, 2017, a 
telephone replay will be available by dialing (800) 585-8367 from the United States or (416) 621-4642 
internationally with conference ID 47077419.
About New Relic
New Relic is a leading digital intelligence company, delivering full-stack visibility and analytics to more than 40% of 
the Fortune 100. The New Relic Digital Intelligence Platform provides actionable insights to drive digital business 
results. Companies of all sizes trust New Relic to monitor application and infrastructure performance so they can 
quickly resolve issues, and improve digital customer experiences. Learn more at newrelic.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release and the earnings call referencing this press release contain "forward-looking" statements, as that 
term is defined under the federal securities laws, including but not limited to statements regarding New Relic's 
future financial performance, including its outlook on financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and for 
the full year of fiscal 2018, such as revenue, non-GAAP loss from operations and non-GAAP net loss per share, 
free cash flow, non-GAAP operating income, gross margins, deferred revenue, physical capital expenditures, and 
cash from operations, New Relic's ability to achieve one-billion dollars in annualized revenue, expectations that 
New Relic's enterprise business will reach over half of New Relic's annualized recurring revenue in Fiscal 2018, 
market trends and opportunity, the opening of a European data center, including timing, location and benefits 
thereof, additional integrations for New Relic Infrastructure with respect to the leading cloud platforms, the value of 
the overall and enterprise sales pipeline as well as the conversion of larger upsell opportunities in the second half of 
the fiscal year, New Relic Infrastructure continuing to be one of the biggest investment areas, New Relic's customer 
adoption, momentum, competitive advantages, and value proposition to its customers, timing and benefits from the 
potential release of a product or set of features based on Project Seymour, increased investment in distribution, the 
timing and expense in relation to a major system implementation, pace of hiring activity, and seasonality as a result 
of an increase in enterprise customers and with respect to dollar-based net expansion rate and deferred revenue in 
fiscal 2018. These forward-looking statements are based on New Relic's current assumptions, expectations and 
beliefs and are subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that may 
cause New Relic's actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied 
in any forward-looking statement.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include, but are not limited to, New Relic's ability to generate sufficient 
revenue to achieve and sustain profitability, particularly in light of its significant ongoing expenses; New Relic's 
short operating history in an evolving industry; New Relic's ability to manage its significant recent growth; fluctuation 
of New Relic's quarterly results; the development of the overall market for SaaS business software; the dependence 
of New Relic's business on its customers purchasing additional subscriptions and products from it and renewing 
their subscriptions; New Relic's ability to develop enhancements to its products, increase adoption and usage of its 
products and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance; risks associated with recent changes to New 
Relic's management structure; New Relic's ability to persuade New Relic's customers to expand their use of New 
Relic's products to additional use cases; New Relic's ability to determine optimal prices for its products; New Relic's 
ability to expand its marketing and sales capabilities and increase sales of its solutions to large enterprises while 
mitigating the risks associated with serving such customers; privacy concerns, which could result in additional cost 
and liability to New Relic or inhibit sales; changes in privacy laws, regulations and standards; New Relic's ability to 
effectively compete in the intensely competitive market for application performance monitoring solutions and 
respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs, 
requirements or preferences; New Relic's dependence on lead generation strategies to drive sales and revenue; 
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
interruptions or performance problems associated with New Relic's technology and infrastructure; defects or 
disruptions in New Relic's products; the expense and complexity of New Relic's ongoing and planned investments 
in data center hosting facilities; risks associated with international operations; New Relic's ability to protect its 
intellectual property rights; and other "Risk Factors" set forth in New Relic's most recent filings with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
Further information on these and other factors that could affect New Relic's financial results and the forward-looking 
statements in this press release is included in the filings New Relic makes with the SEC from time to time, 
particularly under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations," including the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. 
Copies of these documents may be obtained by visiting New Relic's Investor Relations website at 
http://ir.newrelic.com or the SEC's website at            www.sec.gov .
New Relic assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as 
required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
New Relic discloses the following non-GAAP financial measures in this release and the earnings call referencing 
this press release: non-GAAP loss from operations, non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross 
margin, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP sales and marketing, non-GAAP research and development, non-
GAAP general and administrative, non-GAAP net loss per share and free cash flow. New Relic uses each of these 
non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, 
for internal budgeting and forecasting purposes, for short- and long-term operating plans, and to evaluate New 
Relic's financial performance. New Relic believes they are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, 
in evaluating its operational performance, as further discussed below. New Relic's non-GAAP financial measures 
may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in its industry, as other 
companies in its industry may calculate non-GAAP financial results differently, particularly related to non-recurring, 
unusual items. In addition, there are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP 
financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial 
measures used by other companies and exclude expenses that may have a material impact on New Relic's 
reported financial results.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial 
information prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to 
their most directly comparable GAAP measures has been provided in the financial statement tables included below 
in this press release. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these historical non-GAAP financial 
measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
New Relic defines non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP sales and marketing, non-GAAP research and development, 
non-GAAP general and administrative, non-GAAP operating loss and non-GAAP net loss as the respective GAAP 
balances, adjusted for: (1) stock-based compensation expense, (2) amortization of stock-based compensation 
capitalized in software development costs, (3) the amortization of purchased intangibles, (4) the transaction costs 
related to acquisition, (5) lawsuit litigation expense, and (6) employer payroll tax expense on equity incentive plans, 
as applicable. Non-GAAP net loss per share is calculated as non-GAAP net loss divided by weighted average 
shares used to compute net loss per share attributable to common stockholders. New Relic defines free cash flow 
as GAAP cash from operations, minus capital expenditures, minus capitalized software.
Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors and others in assessing New 
Relic's operating performance due to the following factors:
Stock-based compensation and amortization of stock-based compensation capitalized in software development 
costs: New Relic utilizes share-based compensation to attract and retain employees. It is principally aimed at 
aligning their interests with those of its stockholders and at long-term retention, rather than to address operational 
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
performance for any particular period. As a result, share-based compensation expenses vary for reasons that are 
generally unrelated to financial and operational performance in any particular period.
Amortization of purchased intangibles and transaction costs related to acquisition. New Relic views amortization of 
purchased intangible assets as items arising from pre-acquisition activities determined at the time of an acquisition. 
While these intangible assets are evaluated for impairment regularly, amortization of the cost of purchased 
intangibles is an expense that is not typically affected by operations during any particular period. Similarly, New 
Relic views acquisition related expenses as events that are not necessarily reflective of operational performance 
during a period.
Lawsuit litigation expense. New Relic may from time to time incur charges or benefits that are outside of the 
ordinary course of New Relic's business related to litigation. New Relic believes it is useful to exclude such charges 
or benefits because it does not consider such amounts to be part of the ongoing operation of New Relic's business 
and because of the singular nature of the claims underlying the matter.
Employer payroll tax expense on equity incentive plans. New Relic excludes employer payroll tax expense on 
equity incentive plans as these expenses are tied to the exercise or vesting of underlying equity awards and the 
price of New Relic's common stock at the time of vesting or exercise. As a result, these taxes may vary in any 
particular period independent of the financial and operating performance of New Relic's business.
Additionally, New Relic's management believes that the non-GAAP financial measure free cash flow is meaningful 
to investors because management reviews cash flows generated from operations after taking into consideration 
capital expenditures and the capitalization of software development costs due to the fact that these expenditures 
are considered to be a necessary component of ongoing operations.
Operating Metrics
New Relic's dollar-based net expansion rate compares its recurring subscription revenue from customers from one 
period to the next. It is increased when customers increase their use of New Relic's products, use additional 
products, or upgrade to a higher subscription tier. New Relic's dollar-based net expansion rate is reduced when 
customers decrease their use of New Relic's products, use fewer products, or downgrade to a lower subscription 
tier.
New Relic's monthly recurring revenue represents the revenue that New Relic would contractually expect to receive 
from those customers over the following month, without any increase or reduction in any of their subscriptions. 
Similarly, annual recurring revenue represents the revenue that New Relic would contractually expect to receive 
from those customers over the following 12-month period, without any increase or reduction in any of their 
subscriptions.
New Relic defines the number of paid business accounts at the end of any particular period as the number of 
accounts at the end of the period as identified by a unique account identifier for which New Relic has recognized 
revenue on the last day of the period indicated. New Relic defines an enterprise paid business account as a paid 
business account that New Relic measures to have over 1,000 employees.
New Relic is a registered trademark of New Relic, Inc.
All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.
Condensed Consolidated 
Statements of Operations
(In thousands, except per share 
data; unaudited)
Three Months Ended June 30,
2017
2016
Revenue
$
80,09
8
$
58,60
7
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
Cost of revenue
14,97
7
11,65
5
Gross profit
65,12
1
46,95
2
Operating expenses:
Research and development
18,26
6
15,96
9
Sales and marketing
49,36
1
38,78
6
General and administrative
13,94
2
10,23
6
Total operating expenses
81,56
9
64,99
1
Loss from operations
(16,4
48
)
(18,0
39
)
Other income (expense):
Interest income
457
221
Interest expense
(22
)
(21
)
Other income (expense), net
314
(111
)
Loss before income taxes
(15,6
99
)
(17,9
50
)
Income tax provision
235
121
Net loss
$
(15,9
34
)
$
(18,0
71
)
Net loss per share, basic and 
diluted
$
(0.30
)
$
(0.36
)
Weighted-average shares used to 
compute net loss per share, basic 
and diluted
53,69
7
50,22
4
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except par value; 
unaudited)
June 30, 2017
March 31, 2017
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents
$
105,2
98
$
88,30
5
Short-term investments
122,0
00
118,1
01
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for 
doubtful accounts of $1,024 and $1,117, 
respectively
39,17
0
62,03
2
Prepaid expenses and other current 
assets
12,34
9
8,169
Total current assets
278,8
17
276,6
07
Property and equipment, net
51,13
6
50,72
8
Restricted cash
8,024
8,115
Goodwill
11,82
8
11,82
8
Intangible assets, net
2,102
2,499
Other assets
2,870
2,492
Total assets
$
354,7
77
$
352,2
69
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
Liabilities and stockholders' equity
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable
$
5,235
$
6,522
Accrued compensation and benefits
16,14
8
15,93
5
Other current liabilities
7,085
7,607
Deferred revenue
124,8
41
125,2
69
Total current liabilities
153,3
09
155,3
33
Deferred rent, non-current
7,979
8,272
Deferred revenue, non-current
807
1,135
Other liabilities, non-current
699
685
Total liabilities
162,7
94
165,4
25
Stockholders' equity:
Common stock, $0.001 par value
55
53
Treasury stock - at cost (260 shares)
(263
)
(263
)
Additional paid-in capital
468,4
02
447,3
14
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
(113
)
(96
)
Accumulated deficit
(276,
098
)
(260,
164
)
Total stockholders' equity
191,9
83
186,8
44
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
$
354,7
77
$
352,2
69
Condensed Consolidated 
Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
Three Months Ended June 30,
2017
2016
Cash flows from operating activities:
Net loss:
$
(15,9
34
)
$
(18,0
71
)
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to 
net cash provided by operating 
activities:
Depreciation and amortization
5,732
4,222
Stock-based compensation expense
9,623
7,338
Other
180
293
Changes in operating assets and 
liabilities:
Accounts receivable
22,86
2
3,695
Prepaid expenses and other assets
(4,64
3
)
(3,56
7
)
Accounts payable
656
996
Accrued compensation and benefits 
and other liabilities
177
(324
)
Deferred revenue
(757
)
7,505
Deferred rent
(215
)
1,319
Net cash provided by operating 
17,68
3,406
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
activities
1
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchases of property and 
equipment
(7,41
4
)
(1,52
7
)
Decrease in restricted cash
91
-
Purchases of short-term 
investments
(28,9
59
)
(24,8
75
)
Proceeds from sale and maturity of 
short-term investments
24,95
4
35,77
4
Capitalized software development 
costs
(732
)
(712
)
Net cash provided by (used in) 
investing activities
(12,0
60
)
8,660
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from exercise of 
employee stock options
11,37
2
3,675
Net cash provided by financing 
activities
11,37
2
3,675
Net increase in cash and cash 
equivalents
16,99
3
15,74
1
Cash and cash equivalents, 
beginning of period
88,30
5
65,91
4
Cash and cash equivalents, end of 
period
$
105,2
98
$
81,65
5
Reconciliation from GAAP to Non-GAAP 
Results
(In thousands, except per share data; 
unaudited)
Three Months Ended June 30,
2017
2016
Reconciliation of gross profit and gross 
margin:
GAAP gross profit
$
65,12
1
$
46,95
2
Plus: Stock-based compensation
526
381
Plus: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
397
200
Plus: Amortization of stock-based 
compensation capitalized in software 
development costs
236
165
Plus: Employer payroll tax on employee 
equity incentive plans
46
22
Non-GAAP gross profit
$
66,32
6
$
47,72
0
GAAP gross margin
81
%
80
%
Non-GAAP adjustments
2
%
1
%
Non-GAAP gross margin
83
%
81
%
Reconciliation of operating expenses:
GAAP research and development
$
18,26
6
$
15,96
9
Less: Stock-based compensation
(2,83
6
)
(2,54
1
)
Less: Employer payroll tax on employee 
equity incentive plans
(262
)
(128
)
Non-GAAP research and development
$
15,16
$
13,30
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
8
0
GAAP sales and marketing
$
49,36
1
$
38,78
6
Less: Stock-based compensation
(4,30
6
)
(2,76
2
)
Less: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
-
(11
)
Less: Employer payroll tax on employee 
equity incentive plans
(376
)
(129
)
Non-GAAP sales and marketing
$
44,67
9
$
35,88
4
GAAP general and administrative
$
13,94
2
$
10,23
6
Less: Stock-based compensation
(1,95
5
)
(1,65
4
)
Less: Lawsuit litigation
-
(2
)
Less: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
-
(34
)
Less: Employer payroll tax on employee 
equity incentive plans
(73
)
(210
)
Non-GAAP general and administrative
$
11,91
4
$
8,336
Reconciliation of loss from operations 
and operating margin:
GAAP loss from operations
$
(16,4
48
)
$
(18,0
39
)
Plus: Stock-based compensation
9,623
7,338
Plus: Lawsuit litigation
-
2
Plus: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
397
245
Plus: Amortization of stock-based 
compensation capitalized in software 
development costs
236
165
Plus: Employer payroll tax on employee 
equity incentive plans
757
489
Non-GAAP loss from operations
$
(5,43
5
)
$
(9,80
0
)
GAAP operating margin
(21
%)
(31
%)
Non-GAAP adjustments
14
%
14
%
Non-GAAP operating margin
(7
%)
(17
%)
Reconciliation of net loss:
GAAP net loss
$
(15,9
34
)
$
(18,0
71
)
Plus: Stock-based compensation
9,623
7,338
Plus: Lawsuit litigation
-
2
Plus: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
397
245
Plus: Amortization of stock-based 
compensation capitalized in software 
development costs
236
165
Plus: Employer payroll tax on employee 
equity incentive plans
757
489
Non-GAAP net loss
$
(4,92
1
)
$
(9,83
2
)
Reconciliation of net loss per share, 
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Results Revenue increased 37% year-over-year to 
$80.1 million Record cash provided by operating activities....
basic and diluted:
GAAP net loss per share, basic and 
diluted
$
(0.30
)
$
(0.36
)
Non-GAAP adjustments to net loss
0.21
0.16
Non-GAAP net loss per share, basic and 
diluted
$
(0.09
)
$
(0.20
)
Reconciliation of GAAP Cash Flows from Operating Activities to Free Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
Three Months Ended June 30,
201
7
201
6
Net cash provided by operating 
activities
$
17,6
81
$
3,40
6
Capital expenditures
(7,4
14
)
(1,5
27
)
Capitalized software 
development costs
(732
)
(712
)
Free cash flows (Non-GAAP)
$
9,53
5
$
1,16
7
Net cash provided by (used in) 
investing activities
$
(12,
060
)
$
8,66
0
Net cash provided by financing 
activities
$
11,3
72
$
3,67
5
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170803006362/en/
CONTACT: Investors:
New Relic, Inc.
Jonathan Parker, 503-336-9280
IR@newrelic.com
or
Media:
New Relic, Inc.
Andrew Schmitt, 415-869-7109
pr@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 4, 2017
End of Document
WP Engine Accelerates Momentum, Passes 10,000 EMEA Customer Milestone Leading Digital Experience 
Platform Continues To Innovate, Helping Customers Build Engagin....
WP Engine Accelerates Momentum, Passes 10,000 EMEA Customer 
Milestone; Leading Digital Experience Platform Continues To Innovate, 
Helping Customers Build Engaging & Award Winning Websites
Business Wire
June 12, 2017 Monday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 504 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
WP Engine , the world's leading WordPress digital experience platform, today announced it has recently passed the 
milestone of 10,000 customers in its EMEA region just two years after opening the doors of WP Engine London, the 
EMEA headquarters in London's go-to neighborhood for entrepreneurs and creatives: Shoreditch, in the heart of 
"Tech City."
"There's a reason WordPress is trusted by the world's biggest brands and powers more than 28% of the web," said 
Fabio Torlini, Managing Director EMEA at WP Engine. "When we opened the London office, WP Engine's first 
international office, we knew there was an enormous opportunity to make WordPress enterprise grade for 
thousands of customers and we wanted to be present in market to help support this growing EMEA customer base. 
Over the next few years, we look forward to continuing to help WordPress and its community thrive across the 
region."
WP Engine is consistently enhancing its platform to bring enterprise-grade performance and intelligence to 
companies of all sizes. The infrastructure announcement shows how WP Engine is increasing the availability, 
reducing page load times and giving our customers more choices from industry-leading infrastructure partners for 
their WordPress sites. Meanwhile, with the introduction of its Content Performance offering, part of its suite of 
Performance Intelligence solutions, WP Engine continues to evolve customer expectations of a digital experience 
platform for WordPress, by providing a set of tools that address enterprise and agency requirements such as 
providing detailed insights into the performance of a brand's entire WordPress content.
WP Engine's business overall continues to drive solid growth, now with more than 60,000 customers worldwide. 
Customers like AMD, Network Rail, New Relic, Ryanair, Thomson Reuters, Under Armour and Warby Parker in 
over 140 countries trust WP Engine and its international award-winning 24/7 support 365 days a year to deliver 
world-class digital experiences. So whether you measure digital success through content, connections, conversions 
or transactions - an individual with a website or a multinational corporation's digital team can act with the confidence 
that they're always a step ahead.
WP Engine Accelerates Momentum, Passes 10,000 EMEA Customer Milestone Leading Digital Experience 
Platform Continues To Innovate, Helping Customers Build Engagin....
About WP Engine
WP Engine is the world's leading WordPress digital experience platform that gives enterprises and agencies the 
agility, performance, intelligence, and integrations they need to drive their business forward faster. WP Engine's 
combination of tech innovation and an award-winning team of WordPress experts are trusted by over 60,000 
companies across over 140 countries to provide counsel and support helps brands create world-class digital 
experiences. Founded in 2010, WP Engine is headquartered in Austin, Texas, and has offices in San Francisco, 
California; San Antonio, Texas; London, England; and Limerick, Ireland.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170612005391/en/
CONTACT: WP Engine
Eric Jones, 917-488-4214
press@wpengine.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 13, 2017
End of Document
Global Airline Ancillary Services Market 2017-2021: Latest Trend Gaining Momentum is Growing Acceptance of 
BYOD - Research and Markets
Global Airline Ancillary Services Market 2017-2021: Latest Trend Gaining 
Momentum is Growing Acceptance of BYOD - Research and Markets
Business Wire
May 24, 2017 Wednesday 1:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 520 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Airline Ancillary Services Market 2017-2021" 
report to their offering.
The analysts forecast the global airline ancillary services market to grow at a CAGR of 15.02% during the period 
2017-2021.
The report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the global airline ancillary services market for 
2017-2021. To calculate the market size, the report considers the four major sources of ancillary revenue, including 
revenue generated from the sale of FFP miles, provision of onboard retail and other à la carte services, a collection 
of baggage fees, and sale of travel retail services. The report also includes a discussion of the key vendors 
operating in this market.
The latest trend gaining momentum in the market is growing acceptance of BYOD. Installation of fixed or stationary 
IFE devices necessitates airlines to incur substantial investments in aircraft retrofitting. Vendors, like Panasonic 
Avionics and Rockwell Collins, offer such stationery IFE systems that are embedded in aircraft seats.
According to the report, one of the major drivers for this market is growing adoption of branded fare options. 
Globally, airlines have been seeking new and unique pricing strategies that can help them in achieving superior 
values for their product offerings. Simultaneously, greater emphasis is being laid on building a mass awareness 
regarding their brands. This is where the strategy of adopting differential pricing approaches, like branded fare, 
which go beyond basic fare rules comes in picture.
Further, the report states that one of the major factors hindering the growth of this market is High volume of 
disparate data requires substantial investments in IoT ecosystem. The generation of high volumes of data during 
various processes is a key concern for the aviation industry. Long-term information management solution generates 
data that is difficult to manage, as it is fragmented across multiple units and functions.
Key vendors
•
American Airlines Group (AAG)
Global Airline Ancillary Services Market 2017-2021: Latest Trend Gaining Momentum is Growing Acceptance of 
BYOD - Research and Markets
•
Delta Airlines
•
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines
•
Southwest Airlines
•
United Continental
Other prominent vendors
•
Alaska Airlines
•
easyJet
•
Lufthansa Group
•
Ryanair DAC
•
Qantas Airways
•
Emirates
Key Topics Covered:
Part 01: Executive summary
Part 02: Scope of the report
Part 03: Research Methodology
Part 04: Introduction
Part 05: Market landscape
Part 06: Market segmentation by service type
Part 07: Market segmentation by airline types
Part 08: Geographical segmentation
Part 09: Decision framework
Part 10: Drivers and challenges
Part 11: Market trends
Part 12: Vendor landscape
Part 13: Appendix
For more information about this report visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/bcnznk/global_airline
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170524005779/en/
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T. Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
Global Airline Ancillary Services Market 2017-2021: Latest Trend Gaining Momentum is Growing Acceptance of 
BYOD - Research and Markets
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Related Topics: Commercial Aerospace ,            Air Travel
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Soars with Real-time Digital Business Performance Metrics from New Relic New Relic Enables Ryanair 
's Operations Team to Scale and Deliver Better Custom....
Ryanair Soars with Real-time Digital Business Performance Metrics from 
New Relic; New Relic Enables Ryanair's Operations Team to Scale and 
Deliver Better Customer Experiences
Business Wire
April 25, 2017 Tuesday 10:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 756 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
Digital Intelligence leader New Relic, Inc. (NYSE: NEWR) announced Ryanair, the Irish low-cost airline, has 
adopted the New Relic Digital Intelligence Platform to have a holistic understanding of the health of their web and 
mobile digital properties. With New Relic, Ryanair's operations team has the power to monitor and troubleshoot live 
issues on the website quickly and also deliver metrics on the business to their executive team.
Prior to New Relic, Ryanair had limited visibility into the performance of their website. Armed with page load times, 
the operations team didn't have the visibility or data needed to quickly determine the cause of any slowdown. After 
experimenting with New Relic on their mobile site, Ryanair quickly saw its value, deploying it to monitor their 
customer-facing web systems through development, integration, user acceptance testing, pre-production, staging, 
and production environments.
New Relic has enabled Ryanair to improve web performance, customer experiences, and better understand their 
digital business, including:
•
Greatly reduce the time and steps it takes to troubleshoot and pinpoint performance issues;
•
Enable the infrastructure team to effectively move to and manage ongoing a new complex microservices 
architecture without adding staff;
•
Understand trends and report on metrics impacting the business such as segments sold, online check-ins, 
flight availability searches, and online account signups;
•
Effectively monitor and determine if there are issues with third-party services such as payment services; 
and
•
Track potential cyberattacks and other fraudulent behavior through monitoring of end-points and custom 
alerting on metrics such as payments.
Executive Comments
Ryanair Soars with Real-time Digital Business Performance Metrics from New Relic New Relic Enables Ryanair 
's Operations Team to Scale and Deliver Better Custom....
"Two years ago, with a much simpler online booking site, we had four people responsible for our customer-facing 
website infrastructure. Today, our site is much more complicated offing bookings, account management, and other 
travel services, with the same four people responsible for the infrastructure and that's only because of New Relic," 
said Declan Costello, infrastructure and operations manager at Ryanair. "New Relic is our single, global source of 
truth for our web and mobile operations. In addition to the health and performance of the site New Relic provides 
important metrics on our business which are watched across our executive team."
"New Relic is proud to partner with Europe's digital leaders such as Ryanair to deliver highly performant, excellent 
digital customer experiences, and also uncover new opportunities and drive results," said Bruno Teuber, senior vice 
president, EMEA enterprise sales at New Relic. "As Ryanair demonstrates, understanding the performance of 
digital properties are increasingly tied to the performance of the business, future planning, and coordination across 
business functions can be accomplished from a single platform."
Additional Resources
Read more on Ryanair's journey with New Relic.
Ryanair is among the enterprises scheduled to appear at New Relic's FutureStack: London event on May 24, 2017. 
Additional event details and registration is available here .
About Ryanair
Ryanair is Europe's favourite airline, carrying 120m p.a. on more than 1,800 daily flights from 86 bases, connecting 
over 200 destinations in 34 countries on a fleet of over 360 Boeing 737 aircraft, with a further 300 Boeing 737's on 
order, which will enable Ryanair to lower fares and grow traffic to 200m p.a. by FY24. Ryanair has a team of more 
than 12,000 highly skilled aviation professionals delivering Europe's No.1 on-time performance, and an industry 
leading 31 year safety record.
About New Relic
New Relic is a leading digital intelligence company, delivering full-stack visibility and analytics with more than 
14,000 paid business accounts. The New Relic Digital Intelligence Platform provides actionable insights to drive 
digital business results. Companies of all sizes trust New Relic to monitor application and infrastructure 
performance so they can quickly resolve issues, and improve digital customer experiences. Learn more at 
newrelic.com .
Social Media Links: Facebook |            Twitter |            YouTube |            LinkedIn
New Relic is a registered trademark of New Relic, Inc.
All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170425005205/en/
CONTACT: Media Contact
New Relic, Inc.
Steve Naventi, 650-517-7857
pr@newrelic.com
or
Investor Contact
New Relic, Inc.
Jonathan Parker, 503-336-9280
IR@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Ryanair Soars with Real-time Digital Business Performance Metrics from New Relic New Relic Enables Ryanair 
's Operations Team to Scale and Deliver Better Custom....
Load-Date: April 26, 2017
End of Document
Couchbase Named a Winner of TechTarget's 2017 Modern Mobility Innovation Awards for Use in GE 's Predix 
Platform Couchbase's innovative database capabilities en....
Couchbase Named a Winner of TechTarget's 2017 Modern Mobility 
Innovation Awards for Use in GE's Predix Platform; Couchbase's innovative 
database capabilities enable customers like GE Digital to rollout successful 
industrial internet applications with offline and mobile-first capabilities
Business Wire
January 16, 2017 Monday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 611 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase , a leader in NoSQL database technology for Digital Businesses, has been recognized as a winner of 
TechTarget's 2017 Modern Mobility Innovation Awards for its role in providing offline and synchronization 
capabilities to GE's Predix, its Industrial Internet operating system that connects to industrial assets, collects and 
analyzes data to deliver insights for optimizing industrial infrastructure and operations.
Tweet This : #NoSQL #Couchbase awarded @TechTarget's #Innovation Award for powering @GE_Digital's Predix 
platform            http://bit.ly/2iaSSTl
"In developing Predix, we knew providing strong mobile capabilities was important, given the remote locations 
where users need access to Predix, such as on wind farms, oil rigs or in power plants. But we soon learned that 
offline was critical," said Michael Hart, director of Predix mobile engineering at GE Digital. "Providing a solution that 
would work all the time, regardless of location or network availability, became the key challenge we had to solve for 
in building Predix."
GE Digital approached Couchbase in search of a technology that would enable offline capabilities in remote 
locations, giving Predix operators the ability to manage, use and store massive amounts of data regardless of 
network availability. Predix users require applications and devices to work all the time, with seamless data 
integration and management, and the ability to sync data from devices to the cloud when the network is available. 
With Couchbase, GE Digital was able to deliver on these requirements.
The Modern Mobility Innovation Awards recognize exceptionally innovative and successful enterprise mobility 
projects, demonstrating how organizations that embrace mobility and take advantage of cutting-edge technology 
can transform their processes and achieve new levels of productivity.
"We're thrilled to be recognized by TechTarget for our successful collaboration with GE Digital in creating the 
platform for the Industrial Internet," said Couchbase CEO Bob Wiederhold. "Predix is a testament to the Couchbase 
Couchbase Named a Winner of TechTarget's 2017 Modern Mobility Innovation Awards for Use in GE 's Predix 
Platform Couchbase's innovative database capabilities en....
team's continued commitment to helping build innovative applications that enterprises need to compete in the digital 
economy."
Resources
Couchbase Customers
•
https://www.couchbase.com/customers/ge
Learn more about Couchbase Mobile
•
https://www.couchbase.com/nosql-databases/couchbase-mobile
Couchbase Mobile Developer Portal
•
https://developer.couchbase.com/mobile
About Couchbase
Couchbase delivers NoSQL database technology for Digital Businesses. Developers around the world choose 
Couchbase for its advantages in data model flexibility, elastic scalability, performance, and 24x365 availability to 
build enterprise web, mobile, and IoT applications. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase, Couchbase Lite - 
the first mobile NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, 
with configurable cross datacenter replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are 
open source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, Amadeus, AT&T, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, 
Dixons, eBay, General Electric, Marriott, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, PayPal, Ryanair, Rakuten / Viber, Tesco, 
Verizon, Wells Fargo, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, Sorenson Capital, and WestSummit Capital.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170116005059/en/
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Kiley Nichols, 781-684-6513
couchbase@mslgroup.com
or
Couchbase
Dipiti Borkar
dipti@couchbase.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 17, 2017
End of Document
Couchbase Names Sundareswaran VP of Business Development; Brings Extensive Experience in Leading 
Global Growth
Couchbase Names Sundareswaran VP of Business Development; Brings 
Extensive Experience in Leading Global Growth
Business Wire
September 21, 2016 Wednesday 6:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; High-Tech Writers
Length: 570 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase , a leader in database solutions for the digital economy, announced today the appointment of Narayan 
Sundareswaran as Vice President of Business Development. Sundareswaran has more than 30 years of 
experience leading global growth and business development strategies within the technology industry, including 
time at SAP and recently, DataStax.
This 
Smart 
News 
Release 
features 
multimedia. 
View 
the 
full 
release 
here: 
http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160921006417/en/
Narayan Sundareswaran, Senior Vice President of Business Development, Couchbase (Photo: Business Wire)
"Couchbase is in an exciting period of growth and momentum and we are thrilled to have Narayan joining to help us 
enable further expansion," said Bob Wiederhold, Couchbase CEO. "His expertise as a leader of growth will be 
instrumental for Couchbase as we continue to support a growing list of global Fortune 500 enterprises in the digital 
economy."
Sundareswaran led DataStax's technology partnerships and global business development and expanded the 
company's ecosystem across web, mobile, cloud and IoT use cases. Prior to DataStax, Sundareswaran held 
various executive roles, culminating as a Global Vice President at the Office of the CTO at SAP. In these roles, he 
guided Fortune 1000 customers through their Digital Transformation journey with new product development and 
strategic technology programs, while driving global adoption of emerging and innovative technology offerings.
"Couchbase's technology is truly unmatched and is enabling some of the world's largest enterprises to build next 
generation applications for the digital economy," said Sundareswaran. "I am looking forward to continuing the great 
momentum Couchbase has seen and opening new opportunities for the company as it looks to power the critical 
applications of the future."
Sundareswaran provides thought leadership at industry events as an expert who has lead transformations at 
companies both large and small. He shares guidance on achieving inorganic growth through large deals, 
Couchbase Names Sundareswaran VP of Business Development; Brings Extensive Experience in Leading 
Global Growth
completing strategic acquisitions, developing strategic partnerships and investments, and by defining and building 
out new business models and strategies for go-to-market success.
About Couchbase
Couchbase delivers the database for the Digital Economy. Developers around the world choose Couchbase for its 
advantages in data model flexibility, elastic scalability, performance, and 24x365 availability to build enterprise web, 
mobile, and IoT applications. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase, Couchbase Lite - the first mobile 
NoSQL database - and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with 
configurable cross datacenter replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are open 
source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, Amadeus, AT&T, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, 
Dixons, eBay, General Electric, Marriott, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, PayPal, Ryanair, Rakuten / Viber, Tesco, 
Verizon, Wells Fargo, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, Sorenson Capital, and WestSummit Capital.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160921006417/en/
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Kiley Nichols, 781-684-6513
couchbase@mslgroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Graphic
 
Narayan Sundareswaran, Senior Vice President of Business Development, Couchbase (Photo: Business Wire)
Load-Date: September 22, 2016
End of Document
Couchbase names industry veteran Finter as CMO
Couchbase names industry veteran Finter as CMO
Business Wire
September 15, 2016 Thursday 5:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Editors
Length: 516 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase , a leader in database solutions for the digital economy, announced today the appointment of Peter 
Finter as Chief Marketing Officer. Finter is a senior international marketing executive who has led global 
organizations through periods of rapid growth and transformation.
This 
Smart 
News 
Release 
features 
multimedia. 
View 
the 
full 
release 
here: 
http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160915006237/en/
Couchbase CMO Peter Finter (Photo: Business Wire)
"Peter's expertise, experience and focus are exactly what we require as Couchbase builds upon its success and 
reaches new heights," said Bob Wiederhold, Couchbase CEO. "Couchbase will benefit from his proven track record 
of building and leading strong global marketing teams and delivering results."
Finter joins Couchbase from Gigamon, where he led product management, business development and marketing. 
Gigamon's successful IPO in June 2013 and subsequent launch into the cybersecurity market resulted in nine 
consecutive quarters of beating financial expectations and increased the value of the company threefold.
"I'm thrilled to join Couchbase just as the explosive growth of the digital economy is driving a profound 
transformation in the way data is managed and user experiences are delivered," said Finter. "Couchbase's next 
generation database delivers the scale, performance and agility required by the most demanding organizations, and 
is uniquely positioned to enable their success."
Previously, Finter worked at Juniper Networks and was responsible for worldwide demand generation and the 
expansion of Juniper's Enterprise and Service Provider customer base in the Americas. He has more than 20 years 
of experience building and leading marketing and sales organizations for a variety of B2B businesses in EMEA and 
Canada.
Finter holds a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering from Imperial College and is a Chartered Engineer.
About Couchbase
Couchbase names industry veteran Finter as CMO
Couchbase delivers the database for the Digital Economy. Developers around the world choose Couchbase for its 
advantages in data model flexibility, elastic scalability, performance, and 24x365 availability to build enterprise web, 
mobile, and IoT applications. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase, Couchbase Lite - the first mobile 
NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with 
configurable cross datacenter replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are open 
source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, Amadeus, AT&T, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, 
Dixons, eBay, General Electric, Marriott, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, PayPal, Ryanair, Rakuten / Viber, Tesco, 
Verizon, Wells Fargo, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, Sorenson Capital, and WestSummit Capital.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160915006237/en/
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Kiley Nichols, 781-684-6513
couchbase@mslgroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Graphic
 
Couchbase CMO Peter Finter (Photo: Business Wire)
Load-Date: September 16, 2016
End of Document
Couchbase Named a Big Data NoSQL Leader by Independent Research Firm
Couchbase Named a Big Data NoSQL Leader by Independent Research Firm
Business Wire
August 18, 2016 Thursday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Editors
Length: 562 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase today announced it was named a leader by an independent research firm in "            The Forrester 
Wave(TM): Big Data NoSQL, Q3 2016 ." We believe Couchbase's standing in the report reflects its significant 
momentum in enabling leading organizations in verticals such as e-commerce, online video-streaming, healthcare, 
financial services, and gaming to succeed in today's Digital Economy.
"NoSQL is not an option - it has become a necessity to support next-generation applications...29 percent of 
technology decision-makers in our 2016 survey tell us they have either already implemented or are implementing 
NoSQL technology; 12 percent are expanding or upgrading their implementations," said the Forrester report.
The report examined 26 criteria to evaluate big data NoSQL solution providers. Couchbase was recognized in the 
report for providing "ease of use for document-oriented databases... Customers (such as AT&T, eBay, LinkedIn, 
McGraw Hill Education, Orbitz, and Tesco)... use the product to support various mission-critical workloads, 
including operational, analytical, and mixed workloads."
As organizations continue to move into the Digital Economy, Couchbase's leading NoSQL solution provides 
customers with the ability to:
•
Support large numbers of concurrent users (tens of thousands, perhaps millions)
•
Deliver highly responsive experiences to a globally distributed base of users
•
Be always available - with no downtime
•
Handle semi- and unstructured data seamlessly
•
Rapidly adapt to changing demands, thanks to its schemaless JSON data model
"Couchbase has grown substantially in the past two years and we are thrilled to be recognized as a leader in 
NoSQL technology and see, in our opinion, our adoption and innovation recognized by a leading firm," said Bob 
Wiederhold, CEO of Couchbase. "We are seeing an increasing number of global enterprise companies using our 
services for a wide variety of complex, highly scalable and mission critical Digital Economy applications, proving the 
heights of NoSQL are just now being realized."
Resources
Couchbase Named a Big Data NoSQL Leader by Independent Research Firm
•
Visit our website to learn more about how Couchbase can help you
•
Sign up for Couchbase Days , a free training session in a city near you
About Couchbase
Couchbase delivers the database for the Digital Economy. Developers around the world choose Couchbase for its 
advantages in data model flexibility, elastic scalability, performance, and 24x365 availability to build enterprise web, 
mobile, and IoT applications. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase, Couchbase Lite - the first mobile 
NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with 
configurable cross datacenter replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are open 
source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, Amadeus, AT&T, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, 
Dixons, eBay, General Electric, Marriott, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, PayPal, Ryanair, Rakuten / Viber, Tesco, 
Verizon, Wells Fargo, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, Sorenson Capital, and WestSummit Capital.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160818005231/en/
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Kiley Nichols, 781-684-6513
couchbase@mslgroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 19, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair 's Customer Proposition Soars with Qlik Visual analytics take off across low-cost airline, providing 
insights to improve route management, reservations ....
Ryanair's Customer Proposition Soars with Qlik; Visual analytics take off 
across low-cost airline, providing insights to improve route management, 
reservations and in-flight services
Business Wire
July 19, 2016 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Technology Editors; Business Editors
Length: 732 words
Dateline: RADNOR, Pa. 
Body
Qlik® (NASDAQ: QLIK), a leader in visual analytics, today announced that Ryanair, Europe's largest airline, is 
using            QlikView® and            Qlik Sense® organization-wide to help it fill more flights and improve the 
different services it offers to customers. Using Qlik to consolidate all company data, Ryanair has gained greater 
insight into its operations, enabling the airline to run more effectively.
Ryanair is Europe's most popular airline and operates more than 1,800 daily flights, connecting 200 destinations 
across the region. Taking pride in offering low-cost flight options, Ryanair is continually improving its customer 
proposition and with Qlik, the Ryanair Business Intelligence team has consolidated data from across the 
organization to drive insights and make business decisions.
Shane Finnegan, Senior BI Developer at Ryanair said, "Different audiences wanted to consume their data in 
different ways. We wanted a platform that would allow us to meet these differing needs. Qlik offered two 
complementary products to do just that - QlikView and Qlik Sense. QlikView can be used by staff who have in-depth 
analytical roles, such as for those who work in Finance or Marketing. Qlik Sense has then been overlaid on top of 
this so that staff in more time-sensitive departments - say in Ground Ops or Flight Ops - can get quick and easy-to-
digest data visualizations, showing instantly what's going on, where there's an issue, quantify the issue, and 
address the issue."
In the future, Ryanair hope to use Qlik to continue to improve their in-flight retail offering, as well as helping to 
optimize the supply chain by understanding the anticipated passenger mix on a given flight and matching this with 
an appropriate range of products and sufficient stock for the flight.
"With Qlik, we're building a complete overview of what's going on across the business and it is playing a major role 
in the way we are evolving the services we offer to customers," continues Finnegan. "Ultimately, we want to find the 
best ways to make our customers happy on-board, while being able to offer them the lowest fares on the market - 
and Qlik gives us the foundation to make educated decisions which will make that notion a reality."
Ryanair 's Customer Proposition Soars with Qlik Visual analytics take off across low-cost airline, providing 
insights to improve route management, reservations ....
Sean Farrington, RVP, Northern EMEA at Qlik said, "Ryanair is Europe's most popular airline, helping passengers 
travel around Europe on the lowest fares. We're glad Qlik is helping the airline to improve the services it can offer to 
its customers while driving efficiencies and, ultimately, continuing to offer the best deals on flights. Our technology 
has been designed to get analysis into the hands of all and it's great to hear that staff across the airline are able to 
interact with data in the way that suits them best - that's our value proposition."
About RyanairRyanairis Europe's favourite airline, carrying 116m p.a. on more than 1,800 daily flights from 84 
bases, connecting over 200 destinations in 33 countries on a fleet of over 340 Boeing 737 aircraft, with a further 
330 Boeing 737's on order, which will enableRyanair to lower fares and grow traffic to 180m p.a. by 
FY24.Ryanairhas a team of more than 10,000 highly skilled aviation professionals delivering Europe's No.1 on-time 
performance, and an industry leading 31-year safety record.
About QlikQlik (NASDAQ: QLIK) is a leader in visual analytics. Its portfolio of products meets customers' growing 
needs from reporting and self-service visual analysis to guided, embedded and custom analytics. Approximately 
39,000 customers rely on Qlik solutions to gain meaning out of information from varied sources, exploring the 
hidden relationships within data that lead to insights that ignite good ideas. Headquartered in Radnor, 
Pennsylvania, Qlik has offices around the world with more than 1700 partners covering more than 100 countries.
© 2016 QlikTech International AB. All rights reserved. Qlik®, Qlik Sense®, QlikView®, QlikTech®, Qlik Cloud®, Qlik 
DataMarket®, Qlik Analytics Platform®, Qlik NPrinting(TM), Qlik Connectors(TM) and the QlikTech logos are 
trademarks of QlikTech International AB which have been registered in multiple countries. Other marks and logos 
mentioned herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160719005018/en/
CONTACT: Qlik
Toni Iafrate, 617-658-5310
Toni.Iafrate@qlik.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 20, 2016
End of Document
Couchbase Announces Support for Docker Containers Production certified support enables customers to 
maximize hardware efficiency and simplify application lifecy....
Couchbase Announces Support for Docker Containers; Production certified 
support enables customers to maximize hardware efficiency and simplify 
application lifecycle
Business Wire
June 20, 2016 Monday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Editors
Length: 533 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. & SEATTLE, Wash. 
Body
DockerCon 16 - Couchbase , the database for the Digital Economy, today announced at            DockerCon 
production certified support for Docker, the open source containers platform, will ship with the upcoming new 
Couchbase Server release. Docker enables developers to package an application with all of its dependencies into a 
standardized unit for software development. Docker containers guarantee that an application will always run the 
same, regardless of the environment it is running in.
TWEET THIS : Couchbase offers production certified support for #Docker            http://bit.ly/266ePSK #containers
"Couchbase has rigorously tested Couchbase Server on Docker, which will give customers assurance of 
performance and reliability running in Docker containers," said Cihan Biyikoglu, senior director of product at 
Couchbase. "With production certified support, customers will enjoy high performance deployments with full 
infrastructure efficiency by running Couchbase Server on Docker. This enables customers to launch Couchbase 
Server clusters on-demand within seconds for production, development or testing."
Containers are gaining rapid adoption as enterprises seek elastic infrastructure that enables them to scale more 
easily and operate with greater agility. As a result, there is an increasing demand from enterprises eager for 
powerful database software that is supported, tested and runs reliably on container platforms.
Running Couchbase Server on Docker containers simplifies the application lifecycle. With this production certified 
support, developers will be able to compose applications with microservices using lightweight containers, allowing 
developers to build, test and run applications with far simpler configuration management throughout the application 
lifecycle.
Couchbase is attending DockerCon in Seattle and will be showcasing Couchbase Server capabilities in booth S16.
Resources
•
Get started with Couchbase Server on Docker
Couchbase Announces Support for Docker Containers Production certified support enables customers to 
maximize hardware efficiency and simplify application lifecy....
•
Find Couchbase Server on Docker Hub
•
Containerizing Couchbase Server on Docker
About Couchbase
Couchbase delivers the database for the Digital Economy. Developers around the world choose Couchbase for its 
advantages in data model flexibility, elastic scalability, performance, and 24x365 availability to build enterprise web, 
mobile, and IoT applications. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase, Couchbase Lite - the first mobile 
NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with 
configurable cross datacenter replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are open 
source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, AT&T, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, Dixons, eBay, 
General Electric, Marriott, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, PayPal, Ryanair, Rakuten / Viber, Tesco, Verizon, Wells 
Fargo, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, Sorenson Capital, and WestSummit Capital.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160620005244/en/
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Iris Herrera Whitney, 415-214-0036
couchbase@mslgroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 21, 2016
End of Document
New Release of Couchbase Mobile Gives Enterprise Developers Cutting Edge Data Management Platform for 
Building Always On Mobile Applications Couchbase Mobile 1.....
New Release of Couchbase Mobile Gives Enterprise Developers Cutting 
Edge Data Management Platform for Building Always On Mobile 
Applications; Couchbase Mobile 1.2 delivers enterprise grade 
administration, security, performance and scalability
Business Wire
February 4, 2016 Thursday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Editors
Length: 1010 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase , the database for the Digital Economy, today announced general availability of            Couchbase 
Mobile 1.2 , a new release that makes it easier for enterprises and developers to build always available mobile 
applications. Gartner predicts that by the end of 2017, market demand for mobile app development services will 
grow at least five times faster than internal IT organizations capacity to deliver them*. To make it easier for 
professional developers to build and deploy mobile applications, Couchbase is building the most            advanced 
mobile database , which now includes enterprise class administration, security and performance.
Tweet This :
#Couchbase Mobile 1.2 meets growing demand for out of the box solutions to build mobile            #apps           
http://bit.ly/1VIHqaE           #NoSQL           #mobile
"Increasing competitive pressure requires organizations to quickly deliver engaging and data-rich mobile and Web 
apps. But, enterprises and developers building mobile applications struggle because there are so few out of the box 
solutions for mobile application infrastructure," said Ravi Mayuram, senior vice president, products and engineering, 
Couchbase. "Our new release of Couchbase Mobile delivers out of the box synchronization, security, administration 
and performance features that will help enterprises quickly deliver mobile applications that make them more 
competitive in the Digital Economy."
Couchbase Mobile 1.2 builds on the revolutionary Couchbase Mobile platform. Working with customers such as 
General Electric ,            Ryanair , CrowdComfort and Seenit, Couchbase designed and delivered new features that 
address enterprise needs for easier administration, better security and even greater performance at scale.
"CrowdComfort's crowd-sourced work order management application distinguishes itself by delivering a seamless 
online and offline customer experience in all types of environments. The need for our mobile application to be 
always available is mission critical," said Abdullah Daoud, co-founder, CrowdComfort. "Couchbase Mobile provides 
the out of the box technology we need to help us support users from companies like GE, Saint-Gobain, National 
New Release of Couchbase Mobile Gives Enterprise Developers Cutting Edge Data Management Platform for 
Building Always On Mobile Applications Couchbase Mobile 1.....
Grid, and McDonald's, in a wide range of facilities and under varying connectivity limitations. Couchbase Mobile's 
performance and reliability have saved our developers months of work so they can focus on building features that 
extend our competitive advantage in the market and keep our customers happy."
Administration
Managing complex enterprise application ecosystems is a challenge for even the most sophisticated IT 
organizations. Couchbase Mobile 1.2 reduces administration headaches and accelerates implementation time with 
new management controls for adding and removing nodes. Couchbase Mobile 1.2 also includes new install 
capabilities that simplify in place upgrades, making it easier to administer large enterprise deployments.
Tweet This :
#Couchbase Mobile reduces admin headaches & accelerates implementation time with new mgmt controls            
http://bit.ly/1VIHqaE           #NoSQL           #database
Security
The proliferation of mobile usage has created a need for technology providers and enterprises to rapidly invest and 
innovate in security. There are five primary security concerns surrounding mobile data synchronization and 
decentralized storage of data on a mobile device: user authentication, data read/write access, data transport on the 
wire, data storage on device and data storage in the cloud. Couchbase Mobile has always addressed each of these 
areas and with this new release, Couchbase has further increased security on the device by encrypting data at rest 
on the device using enterprise level 256-bit AES full database encryption.
Tweet This :
#Couchbase Mobile improves security w/ at rest encryption of data on the device using 256-bit AES            
http://bit.ly/1VIHqaE           #NoSQL           #database
Performance
Couchbase has built a reputation for satisfying the most demanding enterprise scale and performance 
requirements. Couchbase Mobile 1.2 extends this performance lead to mobile by introducing Couchbase's new 
storage engine, ForestDB , in Couchbase Lite. Using ForestDB, Couchbase Lite 1.2 delivers 2 - 5x faster 
performance than the previous releases for key database operations including inserts, updates, deletes, queries 
and indexing. New optimizations for memory management also provide better performance for nodes under ultra-
high loads.
Tweet This :
#Couchbase Lite 1.2 delivers 2 - 5x faster performance for key            #database operations            
http://bit.ly/1VIHqaE           #NoSQL           #mobile
Additional Resources
•
Technical blog announcing 1.2
•
Couchbase Mobile Developer Portal
•
General Electric Use Case
•
Ryanair Use Case
•
Visit www.couchbase.com
•
Follow @Couchbase on Twitter
New Release of Couchbase Mobile Gives Enterprise Developers Cutting Edge Data Management Platform for 
Building Always On Mobile Applications Couchbase Mobile 1.....
•
*Gartner Press Release, Gartner Says Demand for Enterprise Mobile Apps Will Outstrip Available 
Development Capacity Five to One, June 16, 2015, http://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/3076817
About Couchbase
Couchbase delivers the database for the Digital Economy. Developers around the world choose Couchbase for its 
advantages in data model flexibility, elastic scalability, performance, and 24x365 availability to build enterprise web, 
mobile, and IoT applications. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase Server, Couchbase Lite, the first mobile 
NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with 
configurable cross data center replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are open 
source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, AT&T, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, Dixons, eBay, 
General Electric, Marriott, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Orbitz, PayPal, Ryanair, Rakuten / Viber, Tesco, Verizon, 
Wells Fargo, Willis Group, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners and West Summit.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160204005403/en/
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Iris Herrera Whitney, 415-817-2514
couchbase@mslgroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 5, 2016
End of Document
Research and Markets: Global Low-Cost Airline Market Report - Analysis, Technologies & Forecasts - 
Companies Mentioned: Ryanair, Southwest Airlines & More
Research and Markets: Global Low-Cost Airline Market Report - Analysis, 
Technologies & Forecasts - Companies Mentioned: Ryanair, Southwest 
Airlines & More
Business Wire
January 13, 2016 Wednesday 5:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 427 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/4qs56m/the_global ) has announced the 
addition of Canadean Ltd's new report            "The Global Low-Cost Airline Market to 2019" to their offering.
In terms of revenue the global airline industry has grown rapidly over the years. As per the International Air 
Transport Association (IATA) revenues increased from US$369 billion in 2004 to US $746 billion in 2014. Much of 
this growth could be attributed to the growth in the low-cost carriers (LCCs) which control almost 25% of the 
worldwide market.
The report provides detailed information on global low-cost airlines industry analyzing market data and providing 
insights.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Historic and forecast revenue of global low cost airlines market covering 40 countries
•
Detailed region-wise (Americas Asia-Pacific Europe Middle East and Africa) of low cost airlines' key 
performance indicators such as the number of seats available and seats sold load factor, the average 
revenue per passenger, total revenues, revenue generating passenger kilometers and passenger 
kilometers available for the historic (2010-2014) and forecast (2015-2019) periods
•
Brief analysis of global low cost airlines market and the present scenario
•
Detailed analysis of the markets trends in key low cost airlines' markets
Benefits of this Report:
•
Make strategic business decisions using historic and forecast market data related to global low-cost 
airlines industry
•
Understand the demand-side dynamics within the industry to identify key market trends and growth 
opportunities
Research and Markets: Global Low-Cost Airline Market Report - Analysis, Technologies & Forecasts - 
Companies Mentioned: Ryanair, Southwest Airlines & More
Companies Mentioned:
•
Southwest Airlines Co.
•
JetBlue Airways Corporation
•
Ryanair Holdings Plc
•
easyJet Plc
•
Gol Linhas Aéreas Inteligentes SA
•
SpiceJet Ltd
•
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS
•
Jetstar Airways Pty Ltd
•
WestJet Airlines Ltd
•
AirAsia Bhd
•
Dubai Avi
Report Structure:
1 Global Low-Cost Airline Market - Key Trends
2 Global Low-Cost Airline Deals
3 Global Low-Cost Airline KPIs - the Americas
4 Global Low-Cost Airline KPIs - Asia-Pacific
5 Global Low-Cost Airline KPIs - Europe
6 Global Low-Cost Airline KPIs - the Middle East and Africa
7 Global Low-Cost Airline Profiles
8 Appendix
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/4qs56m/the_global
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160113006001/en/
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 14, 2016
Research and Markets: Global Low-Cost Airline Market Report - Analysis, Technologies & Forecasts - 
Companies Mentioned: Ryanair, Southwest Airlines & More
End of Document
Flying with Autism Initiative Launched to Help Children with Autism to Fly
Flying with Autism Initiative Launched to Help Children with Autism to Fly
Business Wire
December 23, 2015 Wednesday 8:08 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 612 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
A new initiative has been launched to offer parents the opportunity to take their child with autism on a short 
experience flight so they can assess how they cope with the whole process and develop strategies to overcome any 
issues.
The lives of thousands of families are affected by autism. For many parents the prospect of a journey by air is too 
daunting to contemplate because of the worry of how their child with autism will react to this unique environment. 
The new sounds and sensations of air travel, together with the noise and bustle of an airport can be unnerving and 
frightening to anyone experiencing it for the first time, but for someone with autism, this can be greatly amplified and 
overwhelming.
Led by specialist aviation training company, FOF Events, raising funds in support of The National Autistic Society, 
and in conjunction with Ryanair, the Flying With Autism initiative has been established not only to help a child with 
autism familiarise themselves with the flying experience, but also for parents and carers so they can undertake the 
necessary preparation in advance of the flight to ensure that their child's experience is as smooth and as 
comfortable as possible.
It's a 2 part programme consisting of an initial Ground Course exclusively for parents and carers to help them 
prepare their child for the airport and aircraft environment. This is then followed by an exclusive Experience Flight, a 
fortnight later, offering the parents/carers and their child with autism the opportunity to take a short flight to assess 
how they cope with air travel before committing to a potentially expensive overseas holiday.
The programme is designed to provide advice and coping techniques to assist parents and carers support a child 
with autism through the more stressful parts of the experience such as airport security as well as the noises and 
sensations on board an aircraft.
The 2 hour Ground Course will be held at 2.30pm on Sunday 28th February 2016 at the Chiltern Hotel in Luton and 
the Experience Flight, aboard a Ryanair Boeing 737, will take off from Stansted airport at 2.30pm on Sunday 13th 
March for a 30 minute round trip flight.
Kelly Railton, Corporate Partnership Lead Manager, The National Autistic Society , commented: "We are very 
excited that Flying with Autism has nominated our charity to benefit from donations from their courses. A recent 
Flying with Autism Initiative Launched to Help Children with Autism to Fly
survey by the NAS showed transportation is a huge issue for people on the autism spectrum and their families, and 
can prevent them from taking part in everyday activities, particularly leisure opportunities such as holidaying 
abroad. We hope that Flying with Autism's courses, along with our own current work in creating more accessible 
transport environments (such as airports and trains), will help the more than 1 in 100 people on the autism 
spectrum in the UK, and their families, to access the same leisure and culture activities aseveryoneelse."
Ryanair's Director of Personnel and Inflight, Eddie Wilson added: "We are pleased to support this initiative by 
providing free use of our aircraft and we hope this course will make flying that bit easier for families touched by 
autism. We are striving to improve the Ryanair experience for all customers and especially families, and we look 
forward to welcoming these parents and children on board in March, and hopefully on future Ryanair flights."
The cost of the full programme is £289 which includes the initial ground course and the experience flight.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151223005019/en/
CONTACT: FOF Events
Mark Wein
info@flyingwithautism.com
tel:0845-130-5515
www.flyingwithautism.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 24, 2015
End of Document
Database Pioneer Donald D. Chamberlin Joins Couchbase as Technical Advisor; SQL co-inventor and XQuery 
principal editor will contribute to further extending Cou....
Database Pioneer Donald D. Chamberlin Joins Couchbase as Technical 
Advisor; SQL co-inventor and XQuery principal editor will contribute to 
further extending Couchbase's architectural lead in delivering the world's 
leading next generation data management platform
Business Wire
November 11, 2015 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; High-Tech Editors
Length: 545 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase, Inc. today named database veteran and co-inventor of the SQL database language Donald D. 
Chamberlin as a technical advisor to the company. In this role, Chamberlin will collaborate with the Couchbase 
engineering team on architectural innovations that make it easier for enterprises to deploy new and evolve existing 
use cases to Couchbase.
Tweet This :            #SQL co-inventor & database pioneer Donald D. Chamberlin joins            @Couchbase as 
technical advisor            http://bit.ly/1MJDobO
"Don is one of the most recognized and respected names in the database industry. The query language - SQL - 
that he created has become the de facto language for relational databases," said Ravi Mayuram, senior vice 
president of engineering and products, Couchbase. "His expertise will be a great asset to our engineering team, 
particularly with regards to our new query language N1QL, which brings SQL to a new data model - JSON. We are 
excited to collaborate with and learn from a true database legend."
Chamberlin is most widely known as a co-inventor of SQL, the world's most widely used and first commercially 
successful database language. For over 30 years, he worked in IBM's research division, where he conducted 
database research for IBM's DB2 line of relational database products. As an IBM fellow at the Almaden Research 
Center, he made significant contributions to the development of XQuery, a query and functional programming 
language now widely used in electronic commerce, data integration and other web-based applications. Chamberlin 
is also a fellow of the Computer History Museum, an ACM and IEEE fellow, as well as an honorary Ph.D. at the 
University of Zurich.
"This is an exciting time to be working in database management, as a wave of fresh new ideas is sweeping through 
our industry," said Chamberlin. "Couchbase is a leader in developing database technology to meet today's 
changing requirements. In this time of rapid innovation, I look forward to working with the talented team of 
engineers at Couchbase."
Database Pioneer Donald D. Chamberlin Joins Couchbase as Technical Advisor; SQL co-inventor and XQuery 
principal editor will contribute to further extending Cou....
Additional Resources
•
Visit www.couchbase.com
•
Learn about SQL for JSON
•
Follow @Couchbase on Twitter
About Couchbase
Couchbase delivers the world's highest performing NoSQL distributed database platform. Developers around the 
world use the Couchbase platform to build enterprise web, mobile, and IoT applications that support massive data 
volumes in real time. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase Server, Couchbase Lite - the first mobile 
NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with 
configurable cross data center replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are open 
source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, AT&T, Bally's, BSkyB, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, 
eBay, KDDI, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Orbitz, PayPal, Ryanair, Rakuten / Viber, Tencent, Verizon, Wells Fargo, 
Willis Group, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, and West Summit.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151111005291/en/
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Iris Herrera Whitney, 415-817-2514
couchbase@mslgroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 12, 2015
End of Document
Cavendish Leads on the Sale of Leading 'New Digital' Agency Dare to OLIVER Group Cavendish Media and 
Digital: Creative corporate finance for the media, digital,....
Cavendish Leads on the Sale of Leading 'New Digital' Agency Dare to 
OLIVER Group; Cavendish Media and Digital: Creative corporate finance for 
the media, digital, sport and creative industries
Business Wire
October 5, 2015 Monday 8:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 537 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Cavendish Corporate Finance, the UK's leading sell-side mid-market M&A firm, has advised on the sale of Dare, 
one of Britain's first and leading 'new digital' agencies, to OLIVER Group ("OLIVER"), the fastest growing 
independent agency in the UK.
Founded in 2000 by Mark Collier, the former Bartle Bogle Hegarty joint managing director, and currently owned by 
EDC Communications, Dare is one of Britain's great digital success stories. Established as one of the first digital 
agencies in the UK, Dare quickly grew to become a leader in its field with clients including Investec, Nike, EE, 
Barclays and Ryanair.
Established in 2004, OLIVER has developed a revolutionary approach to marketing services putting tailor-made 
agency teams within its client organisations. This unique model enables the company to benefit from the intimacy 
and proximity of working inside its client companies, but with the benefit of an off-site hub agency supplying a 
wealth of resources and expertise.
With this acquisition Dare will remain a standalone agency brand operating within OLIVER and the transaction will 
enable both businesses to benefit through combining their unique areas of expertise - Dare with its strong digital 
offering and established brand and OLIVER with its disruptive industry model. All other EDC business and 
operations will remain unaffected by this acquisition.
Cavendish's media and digital team, led by Partner Linda Sullivan, has a wealth of experience in advising 
companies operating in the creative industries, including the sale of: Rex Features to Shutterstock Inc., The 
Planning Shop International Limited to Adelphi Worldwide, part of Omnicom, and The Communications Agency to 
Communisis Plc. Cavendish completed 20 transactions in 2014 and this is the firm's 17th deal so far this year.
Linda Sullivan, Partner and Head of Media and Digital at Cavendish Corporate Finance, commented:
Cavendish Leads on the Sale of Leading 'New Digital' Agency Dare to OLIVER Group Cavendish Media and 
Digital: Creative corporate finance for the media, digital,....
"For both Dare and OLIVER this deal was a great result, bringing together two unique companies both with 
established track records and robust client bases. More fundamentally, we are also seeing an industry shift towards 
the ground-breaking 'agency-inside' model that OLIVER is successfully pioneering and this represents a significant 
opportunity for the enlarged group moving forward."
Mark Collier, Non-Executive Chairman of Dare, commented:
"This is a hugely exciting opportunity for Dare to be part of such a progressive and fast growing marketing services 
group. The OLIVER model is genuinely unique and it is proving to be increasingly attractive to clients, both in the 
UK and internationally. Dare will now be able to work alongside OLIVER, with access to its global agency 
resources, whilst remaining an independent brand."
Simon Martin, CEO of OLIVER Group, commented:
"Dare is an innovator in the digital space, creating hugely engaging digital experiences. We are excited by the 
possibilities of bringing them into the OLIVER Group and believe the synergies between the two companies' 
innovative mindsets will lead to an exciting future."
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151005005658/en/
CONTACT: For Cavendish Corporate Finance
Morgan Rossiter
Elizabeth Vincent, 0203 195 3240
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 6, 2015
End of Document
Penton's Aviation Week Network's MRO Europe, London ExCeL Center, October 13-15; Where Airlines and 
Customers Connect on Significant Issues
Penton's Aviation Week Network's MRO Europe, London ExCeL Center, 
October 13-15; Where Airlines and Customers Connect on Significant Issues
Business Wire
September 14, 2015 Monday 8:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers; Transportation Writers; Government Writers
Length: 440 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Penton's Aviation Week Network's MRO Europe (#MROE) will be held October 13-15 at the London ExCeL Center. 
Focused on commercial aviation maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO), the event is the industry's largest in 
Europe featuring speakers from airlines, OEMs, regulators, suppliers, and service providers.
MRO Europe will feature some of the industry's top executives, including: Fergus Wilson, COO, Aer Lingus ; James 
Kornberg, Director of Engineering and Maintenance Innovation,            Air France/KLM ; Phil Wardlaw, GM 
Engineering Services,            Virgin Atlantic ; Michael Hickey, Group Director of Operations,            Ryanair ; Chris 
Markou, Head of Operational Cost Management,            IATA ; Valentin Lago, COO,            Iberia Express ; and 
others.
These experts will lead drill-down discussions, sessions, workshops, on information and intelligence not found on 
the internet:
•
10-year market forecast for MRO Europe
•
What's next in aircraft tracking
•
OEM Dominance in the aftermarket
•
Optimizing data: taking advantage of smart aircraft
•
Finance and Leasing, mitigating costs and challenges
•
Preparing for tomorrow's supply chain
•
Advanced composite damage identification and inspection
•
Leveraging the surplus market to reduce costs
New to the event is "MRO BuzzFeed," in which attendees and speakers come together outside of the meeting room 
to continue the conversation and network one-on-one. MRO BuzzFeed will take place following these three 
sessions: Paperless Maintenance and Records Standardization, Streamlining Lease Transition Requirements, and 
Lower Fuel Prices and Operating Costs.
Penton's Aviation Week Network's MRO Europe, London ExCeL Center, October 13-15; Where Airlines and 
Customers Connect on Significant Issues
MRO Europe attendees can also connect via the MRO App . Attendees can plan appointments, reach out to fellow 
delegates and start connecting before, during and after the show.
MRO Europe Platinum Sponsors are MRO Europe Sponsors .
ABOUT AVIATION WEEK NETWORK
Penton's Aviation Week Network is the largest multimedia information and services provider for the global aviation, 
aerospace and defense industries.            Click here to learn more about Aviation Week MRO Events; follow            
@AvWeekEvents ; and like us at            facebook.com/avweek .
ABOUT PENTON
Penton is an innovative information services company that empowers nearly 20 million business decision makers in 
markets that drive more than 12 trillion dollars in purchases each year. Headquartered in New York, Penton is 
privately owned by MidOcean Partners and Wasserstein & Co., LP. For more information, visit 
http://www.penton.com or follow us on Twitter @PentonNow.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150914005124/en/
CONTACT: For MRO Europe:
Elizabeth Kelley Grace, 855-525-2899
Elizabeth@thebuzzagency.net
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 15, 2015
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in France to 2019 - Inbound Tourism Grew from 76.8 Million in 
2009 to 84.9 Million in 2014
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in France to 2019 - Inbound 
Tourism Grew from 76.8 Million in 2009 to 84.9 Million in 2014
Business Wire
August 7, 2015 Friday 2:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 445 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/9783gj/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of Canadean Ltd's new report            "Travel and Tourism in France to 2019" to their offering.
The scenario for domestic tourism was not favourable during the historic period and experienced decline due to 
nominal growth in GDP. However domestic trips are expected to show a growing trend from 2015-2019 due to 
better performance of the economy. Inbound tourism registered growth during 2009-2014 mainly driven by the 
opening of new air routes. France aims to attract 100 million tourists by 2020 from the launch of a tourist campaign 
'Be Nicer to Travelers' in June 2015.
Key Findings:
Domestic tourism went through a difficult phase declining from 202.8 million in 2009 to 199.2 million in 2014 as 
there was a nominal growth in GDP at constant prices. As the economy is expected to perform better over the 
forecast period (2014-2019) domestic trips are expected to reach 211.9 million by 2019. However inbound tourism 
grew at a CAGR of 2.03% in the historic period increasing from 76.8 million in 2009 to 84.9 million in 2014. This 
was mainly due to the growth in passengers using air transportation through the opening of several new routes. 
With the launch of the 'Be Nicer to Travelers' tourist campaign in June 2015 there is a target to attract 100 million 
tourists by 2020. There was a slight growth in outbound trips during the historic period from 24.4 million in 2009 to 
25.4 million in 2014. These are likely to reach 26.7 million by 2019 growing at a CAGR of 1% over the forecast 
period.
Companies Mentioned
•
Air France-KLM
•
EasyJet
•
Ryanair
•
Lufthansa
•
International Airlines Group
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in France to 2019 - Inbound Tourism Grew from 76.8 Million in 
2009 to 84.9 Million in 2014
•
Aigle Azur
•
Royal Air Maroc
•
Air Algerie
•
Air Corsica
•
Delta Air Lines
•
Tunisair
•
Tap Air Portugal
•
Air Mediterranee
•
Air Europa
•
Air Caraibes
•
Logis International
•
Accor SA
•
Hilton Worldwide
•
Louvre Hotels group
•
Chateaux and Hotels Collection
•
SEH United Hoteliers
•
Best Western International Inc.
•
Hotusa Hoteles (Et Ewh)
•
Contact Hotel
•
BandB Hotels Group
•
Citotel Hotel Group
•
IHG
•
Inter Continental Hotels GrouP
•
Choice Hotels
•
Marriott Iinternational Inc
•
Preferred Hotel Group
•
Akena Hotels
•
Carlson Rezidor hotel group
•
Starwood Hotels
•
L'Hotellerie Familiale.
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/9783gj/travel_an
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150807005503/en/
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in France to 2019 - Inbound Tourism Grew from 76.8 Million in 
2009 to 84.9 Million in 2014
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 8, 2015
End of Document
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results; Revenue 
increased 69% year-over-year to $38.1 million in the first quarter; Dollar-
based net expansion rate of 130%
Business Wire
August 6, 2015 Thursday 8:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Editors
Length: 3183 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO 
Body
Software analytics company New Relic, Inc. (NYSE: NEWR) today announced financial results for the first fiscal 
quarter ended June 30, 2015.
"New Relic is helping lead the shift of the software analytics market to SaaS, as customers recognize the benefits 
from our New Relic Software Analytics Cloud," said Lew Cirne, CEO and founder, New Relic. "As we believe our 
results from the quarter demonstrate, companies of all sizes continue to trust the success of their digital initiatives to 
New Relic. Together, we're winning the war on bad software."
First Quarter Fiscal 2016 Financial Highlights:
•
Revenue of $38.1 million, up 69% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and 14% from the fourth 
quarter of fiscal 2015.
•
GAAP loss from operations was $15.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016, compared with GAAP loss 
from operations of $10.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Non-GAAP loss from operations was 
$10.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016, compared with non-GAAP loss from operations of $7.9 
million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015.
•
GAAP net loss per share was $0.32 for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 based on 47.2 million weighted-
average shares outstanding, compared with GAAP net loss per share of $0.65 for the first quarter of fiscal 
2015 based on 15.8 million weighted-average shares outstanding. Non-GAAP net loss per share was 
$0.21 for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 based on 47.2 million non-GAAP weighted-average shares 
outstanding, compared with non-GAAP net loss per share of $0.19 for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 based 
on 40.6 million non-GAAP weighted-average shares outstanding.
•
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $195.0 million at the end of the first quarter of 
fiscal 2016, compared with $200.8 million at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.
Customer Highlights:
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
•
As of June 30, 2015, total Paid Business Accounts were 12,440.
•
Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 was 130%.
•
New customers in the quarter included: ABOL Software, Buongiorno SpA, CarSales.com.au, Charles 
Tyrwhitt, Cvent, Fox Sports, MultiPlus SA, Pipedrive, RBM Technologies, Shutterstock, SlingTV and 
Univision.
•
Expanded customer relationships in the quarter included: 23andme, AOL Inc., Confused.com, Cox Media 
Group, GoDaddy, Hearst Corporation, HomeAway, News Corp., Nextdoor, One Kings Lane, OpenJaw 
Technologies, Ping Identity, Ryanair, Urban Outfitters and Westfield Labs.
First Quarter & Recent Business Highlights:
•
Launched the general availability of our Docker monitoring solution, also selected by Docker as part of its 
Ecosystem Technology Partner program.
•
Expanded the New Relic Software Analytics Cloud to more dynamically monitor Microservices through re-
imagined Service Maps and a new Alerting platform.
•
Announced a new European Development Center in Barcelona, one of several growth initiatives across 
Europe.
•
Joined Cloud Foundry Foundation , enabling Cloud Foundry users to take advantage of the New Relic 
Software Analytics Cloud to build modern applications.
•
Partnered with Salesforce.com, joining their Analytics Cloud Partner Ecosystem, to help companies better 
understand how customers are engaging with their digital brand.
Outlook:
New Relic is initiating its outlook for its second quarter of fiscal 2016, as well as updating guidance for the full fiscal 
year 2016.
•
Second Quarter Fiscal 2016 Outlook:
•
Revenue between $40.2 million and $41.2 million, representing year-over-year growth of between 59% 
and 62%.
•
Non-GAAP loss from operations of between $10.5 million and $11.5 million.
•
Non-GAAP net loss per share of between $0.22 and $0.24. This assumes 48.1 million non-GAAP 
weighted average common shares outstanding.
•
Full Year Fiscal 2016 Outlook:
•
Revenue between $168 million and $171 million, representing year-over-year growth of between 52% 
and 55%.
•
Non-GAAP loss from operations of between $44.5 million and $47.5 million.
•
Non-GAAP net loss per share of between $0.91 and $0.97. This assumes 49.0 million non-GAAP 
weighted average common shares outstanding.
Conference Call Details:
•
What: New Relic financial results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 and outlook for the second quarter 
of fiscal 2016 and the full year of fiscal 2016.
•
When: August 6, 2015 at 2:00 P.M. Pacific Time (5:00 P.M. Eastern Time).
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
•
Dial in: To access the call in the U.S., please dial (877) 201-0168, and for international callers, please dial 
(647) 788-4901. Callers may provide confirmation number 79002058 to access the call more quickly, and 
are encouraged to dial into the call 10 to 15 minutes prior to the start to prevent any delay in joining.
•
Webcast: http://ir.newrelic.com (live and replay).
•
Replay: Following the completion of the call through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on August 13, 2015, a 
telephone replay will be available by dialing (855) 859-2056 from the United States or (404) 537-3406 
internationally with conference ID 79002058.
About New Relic
New Relic is a software analytics company that makes sense of billions of data points about millions of applications 
in real time. New Relic's comprehensive SaaS-based solution provides one powerful interface for web and native 
mobile applications and consolidates the performance monitoring data for any chosen technology in your 
environment. More than 500,000 users and 12,000 paid business accounts trust New Relic to tap into the billions of 
real-time metrics from inside their production software -- and provide answers to their important business questions. 
When your brand and customer experience depend on the performance of modern software, New Relic provides 
insight into your overall environment. Learn more at newrelic.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release and the earnings call referencing this press release contain "forward-looking" statements, as that 
term is defined under the federal securities laws, including but not limited to statements regarding New Relic's 
future financial performance, including its outlook on financial results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2016 and 
for the full fiscal year 2016, market trends and opportunity, customer adoption and momentum of New Relic's 
products, competitive advantages, potential growth, benefits of collaborative efforts and New Relic's ability to 
execute on its vision. These forward-looking statements are based on New Relic's current assumptions, 
expectations and beliefs and are subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in 
circumstances that may cause New Relic's actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include, but are not limited to, New Relic's ability to generate sufficient 
revenue to achieve and sustain profitability, particularly in light of its significant ongoing expenses; New Relic's 
short operating history in an evolving industry; New Relic's ability to manage its significant recent growth; fluctuation 
of New Relic's quarterly results; the development of the overall market for SaaS business software; the dependence 
of New Relic's business on its customers purchasing additional subscriptions and products from it and renewing 
their subscriptions; New Relic's ability to develop enhancements to its products, increase adoption and usage of its 
products and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance; New Relic's ability to persuade New Relic's 
customers to expand their use of New Relic's products to additional use cases; New Relic's ability to determine 
optimal prices for its products; New Relic's ability to expand its marketing and sales capabilities and increase sales 
of its solutions to large enterprises while mitigating the risks associated with serving such customers; privacy 
concerns, which could result in additional cost and liability to New Relic or inhibit sales; changes in privacy laws, 
regulations and standards; New Relic's ability to effectively compete in the intensely competitive market for 
application performance monitoring solutions and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving 
industry standards and changing customer needs, requirements or preferences; New Relic's dependence on lead 
generation strategies to drive sales and revenue; interruptions or performance problems associated with New 
Relic's technology and infrastructure; defects or disruptions in New Relic's products; the expense and complexity of 
New Relic's ongoing and planned investments in data center hosting facilities; risks associated with international 
operations; New Relic's ability to protect its intellectual property rights; and other "Risk Factors" set forth in New 
Relic's most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
Further information on these and other factors that could affect New Relic's financial results and the forward-looking 
statements in this press release is included in the filings we make with the SEC from time to time, particularly under 
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations," including the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Copies of these 
documents may be obtained by visiting New Relic's Investor Relations website at http://ir.newrelic.com or the SEC's 
website at            www.sec.gov .
New Relic assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as 
required by law.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
New Relic discloses the following non-GAAP financial measures in this release and the earnings call referencing 
this press release: non-GAAP operating loss, non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, 
non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP sales and marketing, non-GAAP research and development, non-GAAP 
general and administrative and non-GAAP weighted average shares outstanding. New Relic uses these non-GAAP 
financial measures internally in analyzing its financial results and believes they are useful to investors, as a 
supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating its ongoing operational performance. New Relic believes that the use 
of these non-GAAP financial measures provides an additional tool for investors to use in evaluating ongoing 
operating results and trends.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial 
information prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to 
their most directly comparable GAAP measures has been provided in the financial statement tables included below 
in this press release. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these historical non-GAAP financial 
measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
New Relic defines non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP sales and marketing, non-GAAP research and development, 
non-GAAP general and administrative, non-GAAP operating loss and non-GAAP net loss as the respective GAAP 
balances, adjusted for: (1) stock-based compensation, (2) amortization of stock-based compensation capitalized in 
software development costs, (3) the amortization of purchased intangibles, (4) lawsuit litigation and (5) the 
transaction costs related to acquisition. Non-GAAP net loss per share is calculated as non-GAAP net loss divided 
by the non-GAAP weighted average shares outstanding that are adjusted to assume the conversion of outstanding 
preferred shares to common shares as of the beginning of the period.
With respect to New Relic's outlook under "Outlook" above, New Relic has not reconciled its expectations as to 
non-GAAP operating loss to GAAP loss from operations or non-GAAP net loss per share to GAAP net loss per 
share because certain items such as stock-based compensation and lawsuit litigation expenses are out of New 
Relic's control or cannot be reasonably predicted. Accordingly, reconciliation is not available without unreasonable 
effort.
Operating Metrics
New Relic's dollar-based net expansion rate compares its recurring subscription revenue from customers from one 
period to the next. It is increased when customers increase their use of New Relic's products, use additional 
products, or upgrade to a higher subscription tier. New Relic's dollar-based net expansion rate is reduced when 
customers decrease their use of New Relic's products, use fewer products, or downgrade to a lower subscription 
tier.
New Relic is a registered trademark of New Relic, Inc.
All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
Three Months Ended June 30,
20
20
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
15
14
Revenue
$
38,
14
5
$
22,
61
3
Cost of revenue
7,8
66
4,0
32
Gross profit
30,
27
9
18,
58
1
Operating expenses:
Research and development
8,7
54
4,9
12
Sales and marketing
28,
68
3
18,
61
6
General and administrative
7,9
84
5,3
60
Total operating expenses
45,
42
1
28,
88
8
Loss from operations
(15
,14
2
)
(10
,30
7
)
Other income (expense):
Interest income
14
1
5
Interest expense
(14
)
(15
)
Other income (expense), net
(2
)
13
4
Loss before income taxes
(15
,01
7
)
(10
,18
3
)
Income tax provision
10
2
-
Net loss
$
(15
,11
9
)
$
(10
,18
3
)
Net loss per share attributable 
to common stockholders, 
basic and diluted
$
(0.
32
)
$
(0.
65
)
Weighted-average shares 
used to compute net loss per 
share attributable to common 
stockholders, basic and 
diluted
47,
19
0
15,
75
6
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except par value; unaudited)
June 30,
March 31,
20
15
20
15
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents
$
70,
22
8
$
10
5,2
57
Short-term investments
12
95,
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
4,8
00
50
3
Accounts receivable, net of 
allowance for doubtful accounts of 
$375 and $282, respectively
18,
35
7
13,
81
3
Prepaid expenses and other 
current assets
4,7
41
4,2
99
Total current assets
21
8,1
26
21
8,8
72
Property and equipment, net
38,
05
7
35,
39
7
Restricted cash
4,6
23
4,6
23
Goodwill
2,0
53
2,0
53
Intangible assets, net
2,0
46
2,3
00
Other assets
1,5
60
1,4
66
Total assets
$
26
6,4
65
$
26
4,7
11
Liabilities, convertible preferred 
stock and stockholders' equity
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable
$
5,1
75
$
4,9
69
Accrued compensation and 
benefits
6,8
89
6,2
88
Other current liabilities
3,8
41
3,6
23
Deferred revenue
38,
51
5
29,
18
5
Total current liabilities
54,
42
0
44,
06
5
Deferred rent, non-current
4,5
30
4,6
38
Other liabilities, non-current
1,2
01
1,1
38
Total liabilities
60,
15
1
49,
84
1
Convertible preferred stock:
Convertible preferred stock, 
$0.001 par value
-
-
Stockholders' equity:
Common stock, $0.001 par value
48
47
Treasury stock - at cost (260 
shares)
(26
3
)
(26
3
)
Additional paid-in capital
35
3,2
58
34
6,6
71
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss)
(10
)
15
Accumulated deficit
(14
6,7
19
)
(13
1,6
00
)
Total stockholders' equity
20
6,3
14
21
4,8
70
Total liabilities, convertible 
preferred stock and stockholders' 
equity
$
26
6,4
65
$
26
4,7
11
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
Three Months Ended June 30,
2
0
1
5
2
0
1
4
Cash flows from operating activities:
Net loss:
$
(
1
5
,
1
1
9
)
$
(
1
0
,
1
8
3
)
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net 
cash used
in operating activities:
Depreciation and 
amortization
3
,
3
0
1
1
,
5
6
1
Stock-based compensation 
expense
4
,
6
5
9
1
,
9
3
1
Other
4
1
8
(
4
4
)
Changes in operating 
assets and liabilities, net of 
acquisition of business:
Accounts 
receivabl
e
(
4
,
7
2
1
)
(
2
,
1
8
9
)
Prepaid 
expense
s and 
other 
assets
(
3
8
4
)
(
1
9
0
)
Accounts 
payable
(
3
)
(
9
)
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
8
7
0
8
Accrued 
compens
ation and 
benefits 
and 
other 
liabilities
8
2
7
(
1
5
5
)
Deferred 
revenue
9
,
3
3
2
2
,
7
7
0
Deferred 
rent
(
7
0
)
8
Net cash used in operating activities
(
2
,
1
4
4
)
(
7
,
3
9
9
)
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchases of property and equipment
(
2
,
6
7
1
)
(
2
,
3
8
5
)
Down payment for property and 
equipment
-
(
3
2
)
Increase in restricted cash
-
(
2
8
)
Purchases of short-term investments
(
4
3
,
1
4
6
)
-
Proceeds from sale and maturity of 
short-term investments
1
3
,
6
2
5
-
Capitalized software development costs
(
2
,
2
0
9
)
(
1
,
9
4
6
)
Net cash used in investing activities
(
3
4
,
)
(
4
,
3
)
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
4
0
1
9
1
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from issuances of preferred 
stock, net of issuance costs
-
9
7
,
2
4
7
Principal payments on debt
-
(
1
,
0
8
7
)
Proceeds from issuance of common 
stock
1
,
5
1
6
1
8
2
Net cash provided by financing activities
1
,
5
1
6
9
6
,
3
4
2
Net increase (decrease) in cash and 
cash equivalents
(
3
5
,
0
2
9
)
8
4
,
5
5
2
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of 
period
1
0
5
,
2
5
7
1
9
,
4
5
3
Cash and cash equivalents, end of 
period
$
7
0
,
2
2
8
$
1
0
4
,
0
0
5
Reconciliation from GAAP to Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
Three Months Ended,
June 30,
20
15
20
14
Reconciliation of gross profit and 
gross margin:
GAAP gross profit
$
30,
27
$
18,
58
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
9
1
Plus: Stock-based compensation
25
1
93
Plus: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
20
0
-
Plus: Amortization of stock-
based compensation capitalized 
in software development costs
10
0
28
Non-GAAP gross profit
$
30,
83
0
$
18,
70
2
GAAP gross margin
79
%
82
%
Non-GAAP adjustments
2
%
1
%
Non-GAAP gross margin
81
%
83
%
Reconciliation of operating 
expenses:
GAAP research and 
development
$
8,7
54
$
4,9
12
Less: Stock-based compensation
(1,
03
8
)
(20
2
)
Non-GAAP research and 
development
$
7,7
16
$
4,7
10
GAAP sales and marketing
$
28,
68
3
$
18,
61
6
Less: Stock-based compensation
(1,
97
6
)
(84
9
)
Less: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
(13
)
-
Non-GAAP sales and marketing
$
26,
69
4
$
17,
76
7
GAAP general and administrative
$
7,9
84
$
5,3
60
Less: Stock-based compensation
(1,
39
4
)
(78
7
)
Less: Lawsuit litigation
(17
)
(48
1
)
Less: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
(40
)
-
Non-GAAP general and 
administrative
$
6,5
33
$
4,0
92
Reconciliation of loss from 
operations and operating margin:
GAAP loss from operations
$
(15
,14
2
)
$
(10
,30
7
)
Plus: Stock-based compensation
4,6
59
1,9
31
Plus: Lawsuit litigation
17
48
1
Plus: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
25
3
-
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
Plus: Amortization of stock-
based compensation capitalized 
in software development costs
10
0
28
Non-GAAP loss from operations
$
(10
,11
3
)
$
(7,
86
7
)
GAAP operating margin
(40
%
)
(46
%
)
Non-GAAP adjustments
13
%
11
%
Non-GAAP operating margin
(27
%
)
(35
%
)
Reconciliation of net loss:
GAAP net loss
$
(15
,11
9
)
$
(10
,18
3
)
Plus: Stock-based compensation
4,6
59
1,9
31
Plus: Lawsuit litigation
17
48
1
Plus: Amortization of purchased 
intangibles
25
3
-
Plus: Amortization of stock-
based compensation capitalized 
in software development costs
10
0
28
Non-GAAP net loss
$
(10
,09
0
)
$
(7,
74
3
)
Reconciliation of net loss per 
share attributable to common 
stockholders, basic and diluted:
GAAP net loss per share 
attributable to common 
stockholders, basic and diluted
$
(0.
32
)
$
(0.
65
)
Non-GAAP adjustments to net 
loss
0.1
1
0.1
6
Non-GAAP adjustment to 
weighted-average shares used to 
compute net loss per share
-
0.3
0
Non-GAAP net loss per share 
attributable to common 
stockholders, basic and diluted
(0.
21
)
(0.
19
)
Reconciliation of weighted-
average shares used to compute 
net loss per share attributable to 
common stockholders:
GAAP weighted-average shares 
used to compute net loss per 
share attributable to common 
stockholders, basic and diluted
47,
19
0
15,
75
6
Conversion of preferred stock
-
24,
81
3
Non-GAAP weighted-average 
shares used to compute net loss 
per share attributable to common 
stockholders, basic and diluted
47,
19
0
40,
56
9
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150806006069/en/
New Relic Announces First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 Results Revenue increased 69% year-over-year to 
$38.1 million in the first quarter Dollar-based net expans....
CONTACT: New Relic, Inc.
Investor Contact
Jonathan Parker, 503-336-9280
IR@newrelic.com
or
Media Contact
Andrew Schmitt, 415-869-7109
aschmitt@newrelic.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 7, 2015
End of Document
Former Oracle CFO and Executive Vice President, Jeff Epstein Joins Couchbase, Inc. Board of Directors as 
Independent Director; Brings Decades of Industry Expert....
Former Oracle CFO and Executive Vice President, Jeff Epstein Joins 
Couchbase, Inc. Board of Directors as Independent Director; Brings 
Decades of Industry Expertise and Growth Management to Surging NoSQL 
Innovator
Business Wire
July 13, 2015 Monday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; High-Tech Editors
Length: 578 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase, Inc. today announced that Jeff Epstein has joined its board of directors as an independent board 
member. Epstein, former chief financial officer (CFO) of Oracle Corporation, has decades of experience leading 
financial operations at several of the biggest companies in the world. His background in the database market and 
management experience at large publicly traded companies as well as pre-IPO start-ups make him an ideal advisor 
to foster Couchbase's rapidly growing business.
"Jeff Epstein joins Couchbase as our second independent board director. This appointment is another important 
step in on our journey to build a large, sustainable business that is a leader in the database industry," said Bob 
Wiederhold, Couchbase CEO."Jeff's experience in building global businesses will be instrumental to helping 
Couchbase establish leadership in the $35 billion database market."
Epstein has an impressive track record of growing global businesses. In addition to serving as the CFO of Oracle, 
one of the world's largest and most profitable technology companies, he has been the CFO of several public and 
private companies, including DoubleClick (sold to Google), King World Productions (sold to CBS), and Nielsen's 
Media Measurement and Information Group.
"Couchbase has an opportunity to build a multi-billion dollar business. There is a massive technology shift 
happening as enterprises around the world deploy new applications that are built on modern, faster, more flexible 
NoSQL databases," said Epstein. "Couchbase is quickly emerging as the database of choice for these mission 
critical Web, mobile and IoT applications. I am thrilled to be part of the team that will guide and grow Couchbase as 
it continues to build leadership in the database market."
Epstein is an Operating Partner at Bessemer Venture Partners and a Lecturer at Stanford University. Epstein also 
serves on the boards of directors of Kaiser Permanente, The Priceline Group, Shutterstock, Global Eagle 
Entertainment and several private companies.
Former Oracle CFO and Executive Vice President, Jeff Epstein Joins Couchbase, Inc. Board of Directors as 
Independent Director; Brings Decades of Industry Expert....
Epstein holds an MBA from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business, where he was an Arjay Miller 
Scholar, and a B.A. from Yale College, where he graduated summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa.
Additional Resources
•
Visit www.couchbase.com
•
Follow @Couchbase on Twitter
About Couchbase
Couchbase delivers the world's highest performing NoSQL distributed database platform. Developers around the 
world use the Couchbase platform to build enterprise web, mobile, and IoT applications that support massive data 
volumes in real time. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase Server, Couchbase Lite - the first mobile 
NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with 
configurable cross data center replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are open 
source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, AT&T, Bally's, BSkyB, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, 
eBay, KDDI, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Orbitz, PayPal, Ryanair, Rakuten / Viber, Tencent, Verizon, Wells Fargo, 
Willis Group, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, and West Summit.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150713005167/en/
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Iris Herrera Whitney, 415-817-2514
couchbase@mslgroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 14, 2015
End of Document
HERTZ CONFIRMS ENDING ITS PARTNERSHIP WITH RYANAIR AND REASSURES CUSTOMERS
HERTZ CONFIRMS ENDING ITS PARTNERSHIP WITH RYANAIR AND 
REASSURES CUSTOMERS
July 2, 2015 Thursday 5:50 PM BST
Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 655 words
Body
- Existing bookings will be fully honored and any future bookings can be made directly at Hertz, Thrifty and Firefly 
websites
LONDON, July 2, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- The Hertz Corporation (NYSE:HTZ) has said that despite lengthy 
discussions regarding a contractual dispute it regrets that it had to end its car hire agreement with Ryanair. Hertz 
reassures customers that existing bookings will be fully honored and that future bookings can be made directly at 
the Hertz, Thrifty and Firefly websites.
Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130620/NY35609LOGO
Michel Taride, Group President of Hertz International, commented: ``We have enjoyed many years of a successful 
relationship with Ryanair, but unfortunately we were not able to reach agreement with the airline over a significant 
contractual dispute in spite of considerable effort.
``The majority of Ryanair passengers who need car hire from the Hertz brands in July and August are already 
booked and confirmed. Any customer who wishes to book car rental and enjoy great service at competitive rates 
can make arrangements directly with us. Customers can also modify existing bookings on the Ryanair website.
``Hertz deeply values all of its partnerships, some which have been going for more than 20 years. We strongly 
believe in mutually beneficial partnerships and would never take lightly the decision to end a key relationship.
``We are confident in our legal position and intend to pursue this matter vigorously through the courts.''
Customers wishing to book car rental with Hertz, Thrifty, and Firefly can visit the following websites:
Hertz:
All countries: www.hertz.com
Thrifty:
Belgium: www.thrifty.be Czech Republic:            www.thrifty.ch France:            www.thrifty.fr Germany:            
www.thrifty.de Ireland:            www.thrifty.ie Italy:            www.thriftycars4rent.it Luxemburg:            www.thrifty.lu 
Netherlands:            www.thrifty.nl Spain:            www.thrifty.es
HERTZ CONFIRMS ENDING ITS PARTNERSHIP WITH RYANAIR AND REASSURES CUSTOMERS
For other countries: www.thriftycars4rent.com
Firefly
Arab Emirates: www.fireflycarrental.ae Belgium:            www.fireflycarrental.be Czech Republic:            
www.fireflycarrental.ch France:            www.fireflycarrental.fr Germany:            www.fireflycarrental.de Hungary:       
     www.fireflycarrental.hr Iceland:            www.fireflycarrental.is Italy:            www.fireflycarrental.it Malta:            
www.fireflycarrental.mt Netherlands:            www.fireflycarrental.nl Spain:            www.fireflycarrental.es UK:            
www.fireflycarrental.co.uk
ABOUT HERTZ
Hertz operates the Hertz, Dollar, Thrifty and Firefly car rental brands in more than 10,300 corporate and licensee 
locations throughout approximately 145 countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, 
the Middle East and New Zealand. Hertz is the largest worldwide airport general use car rental company with more 
than 1,600 airport locations in the U.S. and more than 1,300 airport locations internationally. Product and service 
initiatives such as Hertz Gold Plus Rewards, NeverLost(R), Carfirmations, Mobile Wi-Fi and unique vehicles offered 
through the Adrenaline, Dream, Green and Prestige Collections set Hertz apart from the competition. Additionally, 
Hertz owns the vehicle leasing and fleet management leader Donlen Corporation, operates the Hertz 24/7 hourly 
car rental business and sells vehicles through its Rent2Buy program. The Company also owns Hertz Equipment 
Rental Corporation (``HERC''), one of the largest equipment rental businesses with more than 350 locations 
worldwide offering a diverse line of equipment and tools for rent and sale. HERC primarily serves the construction, 
industrial, oil, gas, entertainment and government sectors. For more information about Hertz, visit: www.hertz.com.
Hertz Press Contact: Cathy Madden, Head of Public Affairs, PSG Plus Mob: 00353 86 605 02 69
Gemma Hart Alex Finnegan Brunswick Group 212-333-3810 end
Load-Date: July 2, 2015
End of Document
Avolon Launches Book Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish
Avolon Launches Book Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish
June 30, 2015 Tuesday 6:00 PM BST
Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 1211 words
Body
Aviation
Formal launch by An Taoiseach Enda Kenny T.D.
NYSE: AVOL
Business Editors, Transportation Writers, Book Editors
DUBLIN--(Business Wire)--June 30, 2015
Avolon (NYSE: AVOL), the international aircraft leasing company, today celebrates the launch of Pioneers and 
Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation, its commemorative photographic book. The book was formally launched by An 
Taoiseach Enda Kenny T.D. at an event at Casement Aerodrome, Baldonnel, Co. Dublin.
The launch incorporated a live performance by renowned composer Mícheál Ó Súilleabháin and also included the 
inaugural flight of the Irish Historic Flight Foundation, an initiative for Ireland's aviation industry organised by the 
Irish Aviation Authority.
Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation | Photographic Book
Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation is inspired by the documentary of the same name which Avolon 
commissioned in 2013 and which premiered in the Irish National Concert Hall in the presence of Uachtarán na 
hÉireann, Michael D. Higgins in January 2014.
The book aims to illustrate and memorialise the story of Ireland's role in shaping the global aviation industry over 
the last century. It is an extraordinary tale of circumstance, courage, bloody mindedness and, at times, grave 
misfortune. From the landing of the first non-stop (West-East) transatlantic flight in a bog in Clifden in 1919, the 
departure of the first (East-West) transatlantic flight from Baldonnel in 1928 right through to the development of Aer 
Lingus, GPA, Ryanair and a list of global players in the aircraft leasing sector today, Ireland truly has a unique place 
on the global stage of aviation.
Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation is not available to purchase. However, a copy of the photographic 
book has been donated to a selection of national libraries and Universities in Ireland. Avolon hopes that the public 
will take the opportunity to view this historical book and celebrate Ireland's aviation history.
John Higgins, Avolon President & Chief Commercial Officer commented:
Avolon Launches Book Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish
``Today is a memorable occasion for all those involved in the making of both the book and the documentary. We 
were delighted to be joined by An Taoiseach Enda Kenny T.D to formally launch the photographic book which aims 
to capture Ireland's unique aviation history. We, at Avolon, are extremely proud of our Irish heritage and specifically 
Ireland's role in the global aviation industry. We set out on this project, not as a commercial endeavour, but simply 
as a way to memorialise and share what we believe is a fascinating story. We would like to extend our sincere 
thanks to all those who have made this project a reality, and have helped showcase Ireland's unique aviation 
history.''
Eamonn Brennan, Chief Executive of the Irish Aviation Authority, said:
``Building on this wonderful chronicle 'Pioneers and Aviators' launched today, Irish Historic Flight Foundation is a 
fantastic initiative for the aviation industry to celebrate Ireland's rich aviation heritage. The Foundation has wide 
industry support, from the likes of the Irish Air Corps, Department of Defence, Ryanair, Aer Lingus, Stobart Air, the 
Irish Aviation Authority and a team of dedicated volunteers. Now we're entering an exciting phase as we build a 
dedicated 'Aviation Experience' facility at Baldonnel. Visitors will be immersed in aviation as they'll be able to view 
historic aircraft up close and gain an in-depth scientific understanding of aviation and flight. We're looking forward to 
the opening of this state-of-the-art, interactive facility to the public in the coming years.''
Additional Information:
Pioneers and Aviators | A Documentary on Irish Aviation
The documentary premiered in the Irish National Concert Hall in the presence of Uachtarán na hÉireann, Michael 
D. Higgins in January 2014. It was commissioned by Avolon and tells the story of the pioneering individuals whose 
vision, passion, successes and failures helped forge Ireland's unique aviation landscape. The documentary charts 
Ireland's aviation history, from its beginnings with the first transatlantic flight landing in the west of Ireland, through 
to the present day and the role Ireland and the Irish play in the global aviation industry.
The documentary was broadcast on television by RTÉ, Ireland's National Television and Radio Broadcaster, as a 
two part series in February 2014.
The documentary is available to view on the About Us section of the Avolon website at www.avolon.aero
Director | Alan Gilsenan
The documentary was written and directed by Alan Gilsenan, an award winning Irish film-maker, writer and theatre 
director. His work has appeared on the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, RTÉ, the History Channel and CNBC among others. 
Alan is currently a member of the Board of RTÉ. He has previously held positions on the Irish Film Board, the Irish 
Film Institute and Film-Makers Ireland.
Score | Mícheál Ó Súilleabháin
The score for the film was composed by the renowned composer Mícheál Ó Súilleabháin. He was awarded an 
Honorary Doctorate of Music from the National University of Ireland, in 2005 for his contribution to music in Ireland 
over the past thirty years.
Micheál has also created an original overture which was performed at the event by the RTÉ Concert Orchestra.
Irish Historic Flight Foundation
The Irish Historic Flight Foundation (IHFF) is an initiative for Ireland's aviation industry, established in December 
2014 to promote the historical aspects of aviation in the State. The Foundation has received wide industry support, 
from the likes of the Irish Air Corps, Department of Defence, Ryanair, Aer Lingus, Stobart Air, the Irish Aviation 
Authority and a team of dedicated volunteers.
It is involved in two key areas of activity:
Avolon Launches Book Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish
1. The restoration, maintenance and public flying of historic aircraft: IHFF has a fleet of three De Havilland DHC-1 
Chipmunk aircraft flying in Air Corps colours and the historic DH 84 Dragon (the Aer Lingus 'Iolar') is being added.
2. The establishment of a dedicated 'aviation experience' facility, allowing the public to both view historic aircraft up 
close and gain an in-depth scientific understanding of aviation and flight. Rather than a static display museum, it will 
be a state-of-the-art interactive facility, where visitors will be immersed in aviation. A suitable site has been 
identified at Baldonnel (Casement Aerodrome) and the Foundation intends to submit a formal planning application 
by year-end with a view to having the facility in place in 2017.
Visit www.irishhistoricflight.com
About Avolon
Headquartered in Ireland, with offices in the United States, Dubai, Singapore and China, Avolon provides aircraft 
leasing and lease management services. Avolon has an owned, managed and committed fleet of 251 aircraft 
serving 51 customers in 29 countries as of March 31, 2015. Avolon is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, 
under the ticker symbol AVOL.
www.avolon.aero
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150630005726/en/
Contact:
Avolon Dónal O'Neill T: +353 1 231 5843 M: +353 87 251 1799 doneill@avolon.aero or Jonathan Neilan T: +353 1 
663 3686 M: +353 86 231 4135 ir@avolon.aero or Jennifer Peters T: +353 1 663 3684 M: +353 87 178 7021 
ir@avolon.aero end
Load-Date: June 30, 2015
End of Document
Avolon Launches Book Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation Formal launch by An Taoiseach 
Enda Kenny T.D. NYSE : AVOL
Avolon Launches Book Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation; 
Formal launch by An Taoiseach Enda Kenny T.D.; NYSE: AVOL
Business Wire
June 30, 2015 Tuesday 5:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Transportation Writers; Book Editors
Length: 1183 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Avolon (NYSE: AVOL), the international aircraft leasing company, today celebrates the launch of Pioneers and 
Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation, its commemorative photographic book. The book was formally launched by An 
Taoiseach Enda Kenny T.D. at an event at Casement Aerodrome, Baldonnel, Co. Dublin.
The launch incorporated a live performance by renowned composer Mícheál Ó Súilleabháin and also included the 
inaugural flight of the Irish Historic Flight Foundation, an initiative for Ireland's aviation industry organised by the 
Irish Aviation Authority.
Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation | Photographic Book
Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation is inspired by the documentary of the same name which Avolon 
commissioned in 2013 and which premiered in the Irish National Concert Hall in the presence of Uachtarán na 
hÉireann, Michael D. Higgins in January 2014.
The book aims to illustrate and memorialise the story of Ireland's role in shaping the global aviation industry over 
the last century. It is an extraordinary tale of circumstance, courage, bloody mindedness and, at times, grave 
misfortune. From the landing of the first non-stop (West-East) transatlantic flight in a bog in Clifden in 1919, the 
departure of the first (East-West) transatlantic flight from Baldonnel in 1928 right through to the development of Aer 
Lingus, GPA, Ryanair and a list of global players in the aircraft leasing sector today, Ireland truly has a unique place 
on the global stage of aviation.
Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation is not available to purchase. However, a copy of the photographic 
book has been donated to a selection of national libraries and Universities in Ireland. Avolon hopes that the public 
will take the opportunity to view this historical book and celebrate Ireland's aviation history.
John Higgins, Avolon President & Chief Commercial Officer commented:
"Today is a memorable occasion for all those involved in the making of both the book and the documentary. We 
were delighted to be joined by An Taoiseach Enda Kenny T.D to formally launch the photographic book which aims 
Avolon Launches Book Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation Formal launch by An Taoiseach 
Enda Kenny T.D. NYSE : AVOL
to capture Ireland's unique aviation history. We, at Avolon, are extremely proud of our Irish heritage and specifically 
Ireland's role in the global aviation industry. We set out on this project, not as a commercial endeavour, but simply 
as a way to memorialise and share what we believe is a fascinating story. We would like to extend our sincere 
thanks to all those who have made this project a reality, and have helped showcase Ireland's unique aviation 
history."
Eamonn Brennan, Chief Executive of the Irish Aviation Authority, said:
"Building on this wonderful chronicle 'Pioneers and Aviators' launched today, Irish Historic Flight Foundation is a 
fantastic initiative for the aviation industry to celebrate Ireland's rich aviation heritage. The Foundation has wide 
industry support, from the likes of the Irish Air Corps, Department of Defence, Ryanair, Aer Lingus, Stobart Air, the 
Irish Aviation Authority and a team of dedicated volunteers. Now we're entering an exciting phase as we build a 
dedicated 'Aviation Experience' facility at Baldonnel. Visitors will be immersed in aviation as they'll be able to view 
historic aircraft up close and gain an in-depth scientific understanding of aviation and flight. We're looking forward to 
the opening of this state-of-the-art, interactive facility to the public in the coming years."
Additional Information:
Pioneers and Aviators | A Documentary on Irish Aviation
The documentary premiered in the Irish National Concert Hall in the presence of Uachtarán na hÉireann, Michael 
D. Higgins in January 2014. It was commissioned by Avolon and tells the story of the pioneering individuals whose 
vision, passion, successes and failures helped forge Ireland's unique aviation landscape. The documentary charts 
Ireland's aviation history, from its beginnings with the first transatlantic flight landing in the west of Ireland, through 
to the present day and the role Ireland and the Irish play in the global aviation industry.
The documentary was broadcast on television by RTÉ, Ireland's National Television and Radio Broadcaster, as a 
two part series in February 2014.
The documentary is available to view on the About Us section of the Avolon website at www.avolon.aero
Director | Alan Gilsenan
The documentary was written and directed by Alan Gilsenan, an award winning Irish film-maker, writer and theatre 
director. His work has appeared on the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, RTÉ, the History Channel and CNBC among others. 
Alan is currently a member of the Board of RTÉ. He has previously held positions on the Irish Film Board, the Irish 
Film Institute and Film-Makers Ireland.
Score | Mícheál Ó Súilleabháin
The score for the film was composed by the renowned composer Mícheál Ó Súilleabháin. He was awarded an 
Honorary Doctorate of Music from the National University of Ireland, in 2005 for his contribution to music in Ireland 
over the past thirty years.
Micheál has also created an original overture which was performed at the event by the RTÉ Concert Orchestra.
Irish Historic Flight Foundation
The Irish Historic Flight Foundation (IHFF) is an initiative for Ireland's aviation industry, established in December 
2014 to promote the historical aspects of aviation in the State. The Foundation has received wide industry support, 
from the likes of the Irish Air Corps, Department of Defence, Ryanair, Aer Lingus, Stobart Air, the Irish Aviation 
Authority and a team of dedicated volunteers.
It is involved in two key areas of activity:
Avolon Launches Book Pioneers and Aviators, A Century of Irish Aviation Formal launch by An Taoiseach 
Enda Kenny T.D. NYSE : AVOL
1. The restoration, maintenance and public flying of historic aircraft: IHFF has a fleet of three De Havilland DHC-1 
Chipmunk aircraft flying in Air Corps colours and the historic DH 84 Dragon (the Aer Lingus 'Iolar') is being added.
2. The establishment of a dedicated 'aviation experience' facility, allowing the public to both view historic aircraft up 
close and gain an in-depth scientific understanding of aviation and flight. Rather than a static display museum, it will 
be a state-of-the-art interactive facility, where visitors will be immersed in aviation. A suitable site has been 
identified at Baldonnel (Casement Aerodrome) and the Foundation intends to submit a formal planning application 
by year-end with a view to having the facility in place in 2017.
Visit www.irishhistoricflight.com
ENDS
About Avolon
Headquartered in Ireland, with offices in the United States, Dubai, Singapore and China, Avolon provides aircraft 
leasing and lease management services. Avolon has an owned, managed and committed fleet of 251 aircraft 
serving 51 customers in 29 countries as of March 31, 2015. Avolon is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, 
under the ticker symbol AVOL.
www.avolon.aero
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150630005726/en/
CONTACT: Avolon
Dónal O'Neill
T: +353 1 231 5843
M: +353 87 251 1799
doneill@avolon.aero
or
Jonathan Neilan
T: +353 1 663 3686
M: +353 86 231 4135
ir@avolon.aero
or
Jennifer Peters
T: +353 1 663 3684
M: +353 87 178 7021
ir@avolon.aero
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2015
End of Document
Comcast , DirecTV , Experian , Intuit, La Banque Postal and Ryanair Among Global Enterprises Adopting 
Couchbase NoSQL Couchbase Caps First Quarter of 2015 with ....
Comcast, DirecTV, Experian, Intuit, La Banque Postal and Ryanair Among 
Global Enterprises Adopting Couchbase NoSQL; Couchbase Caps First 
Quarter of 2015 with Major New Customers Around the World; 
Business Wire
May 7, 2015 Thursday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 749 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase, Inc. , provider of the most complete NoSQL database, continued to show massive momentum in the 
NoSQL market, recently projected by Allied Market Research to reach $4.2 billion by 2020. In the first quarter of 
2015, Couchbase delivered innovative new technology, secured new partnerships and expanded its customer base 
of global industry leaders, positioning the company to emerge as the leader of the enterprise NoSQL market.
Tweet This : Comcast, DirecTV, Experian, Intuit, La Banque Postal and Ryanair Among Global Enterprises 
Adopting Couchbase NoSQL            http://bit.ly/1EOkNdO
"Businesses in every industry are redefining the customer experience through web, mobile and IoT applications 
built on NoSQL," said Bob Wiederhold, CEO at Couchbase. "Benchmarks run by third parties and our customers 
consistently demonstrate Couchbase is uniquely capable of delivering the scale and performance required to run 
these mission critical enterprise applications. That product superiority continues to expand our relationships with 
existing customers and drive business with new customers and partners."
Couchbase momentum in the first quarter of 2015
Growing enterprise adoptionEnterprise adoption of NoSQL for mission critical applications continues to grow and an 
increasing number of companies are choosing Couchbase as their NoSQL data management solution. In the first 
quarter of 2015, Couchbase added new customers and grew existing deployments at global brand leaders around 
the world, including Amadeus, Comcast, Cochlear, DirecTV, Experian, Intuit, La Banque Postal, SafetyCulture and 
more.
In March, Couchbase hosted Couchbase Live Europe 2015, its annual European user conference. The conference 
drew nearly three times the number of attendees as previous years and included presentations from European 
customers like Amadeus, Ryanair and the Turkish Ministry of Health. Rapidly growing interest in Couchbase 
prompted the company to move its U.S.-based annual user conference from a hotel in downtown San Francisco to 
Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, Calif. The user conference will be held June 2 - 4, 2015. It will include more than 80 
Comcast , DirecTV , Experian , Intuit, La Banque Postal and Ryanair Among Global Enterprises Adopting 
Couchbase NoSQL Couchbase Caps First Quarter of 2015 with ....
technical sessions, presentations by Cisco, eBay, General Electric, Inuit, PayPal and other industry leaders, and is 
expected to draw more than 1500 attendees. Registration is now open.
Tweet This : Couchbase Connect expected to draw more than 1500 attendees to hear from Cisco, eBay, Intuit, 
PayPal & more. Register            http://bit.ly/1GWoxh9
Rapidly expanding ecosystemCouchbase continued to grow its ecosystem, signing more than a dozen new 
partners in the first quarter. Spanning technology and distribution, new partners included Pure Storage, Microsoft 
Azure, Unity, Google and BigStep. Couchbase and newly signed partner Hortonworks together delivered new 
integration for faster and easier deployments of big data architectures that leverage Hadoop and NoSQL.
New benchmark demonstrates leadership in scale and performanceMission critical applications require massive 
scale and high performance. Enterprises looking to adopt NoSQL benefit from benchmark evaluations that compare 
use cases and performance for different solutions. In March, Avalon Consulting released a new NoSQL benchmark 
that showed Couchbase outperforming MongoDB and Cassandra in some of the most common deployment 
scenarios.
About Couchbase
Couchbase deliverstheworld's highest performing NoSQL distributed database platform. Developers around the 
world use the Couchbase platform to build enterprise web, mobile, and IoT applications that support massive data 
volumes in real time.The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase Server, Couchbase Lite - the first mobile NoSQL 
database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with configurable cross 
data center replication to increase data locality and availability.All Couchbase products are open source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, AT&T, Bally's, Beats Music, BSkyB, Cisco, Comcast, 
Concur, Disney, eBay, Intuit, KDDI, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Orbitz, PayPal, Rakuten / Viber, Ryanair, Tencent, 
Verizon, Wells Fargo, Willis Group, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, and West Summit.
www.couchbase.com
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Iris Herrera Whitney, 415-817-2514
couchbase@mslgroup.com
or
Couchbase
Cate Lochead, 650-867-3510
cate@couchbase.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 8, 2015
End of Document
CORRECTING and REPLACING Fortune 500 Customers to Showcase NoSQL Journey at Couchbase 
Connect 2015; Cisco, DirecTV, GE Global Research Center, Intuit TurboTax, ....
CORRECTING and REPLACING Fortune 500 Customers to Showcase NoSQL 
Journey at Couchbase Connect 2015; Cisco, DirecTV, GE Global Research 
Center, Intuit TurboTax, LinkedIn, Ryanair, and More to Share Enterprise 
NoSQL Experience - Avalon Consulting, LLC, Firefly Logic, Intel, Joyent, 
Simba and Vormetric Sponsor
Business Wire
May 7, 2015 Thursday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 1017 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Third paragraph in the "Couchbase Connect Sponsors" section should read: Tweet This: Couchbase Partners Intel, 
Simba, Vormetric & more participating in #CBConnect on June 2 - 4            http://bit.ly/1GWoxh9 (instead of            
Tweet This : Couchbase Partners Hortonworks, Intel, Simba, Tableau, Vormetric & more participating in 
#CBConnect on June 2 - 4            http://bit.ly/1GWoxh9 ).
The corrected release reads:
FORTUNE 500 CUSTOMERS TO SHOWCASE NOSQL JOURNEY AT COUCHBASE CONNECT 2015
Cisco, DirecTV, GE Global Research Center, Intuit TurboTax, LinkedIn, Ryanair, and More to Share Enterprise 
NoSQL Experience - Avalon Consulting, LLC, Firefly Logic, Intel, Joyent, Simba and Vormetric Sponsor
Couchbase, Inc. , provider of the most complete NoSQL database, will host            Couchbase Connect 2015 on 
June 2 - 4 at Levi's® Stadium in Santa Clara, Calif. Themed "NoSQL NoLimits," the conference will attract more 
than 1,500 developers, administrators and decision makers who will learn best practices and new use cases from 
Fortune 500 companies.
"2015 is shaping up to be another amazing year for us as more and more enterprises deploy mission critical 
applications that require the scale and performance that only Couchbase NoSQL can deliver," said Bob 
Wiederhold, CEO, Couchbase. "Couchbase Connect has more than tripled in size over the past two years due to 
the growing adoption of Couchbase Server to support an expanding number of use cases for web, mobile and IoT 
applications."
Tweet This : #CBConnect expected to draw 1500 attendees to hear from Cisco, DirecTV, Intuit, LinkedIn, Ryanair & 
more. Register            http://bit.ly/1GWoxh9
CORRECTING and REPLACING Fortune 500 Customers to Showcase NoSQL Journey at Couchbase 
Connect 2015; Cisco, DirecTV, GE Global Research Center, Intuit TurboTax, ....
Fortune 500 Technology Experts Share Enterprise NoSQL Experiences
Senior executives, IT leaders and developers from leading brands will share their experiences building big data 
architectures, developing always-available mobile apps, moving to micro services and more. Customer sessions will 
include:
•
Couchbase Powers Cisco's Move from Legacy Software to Cloud Based Service Model - Clint Ricker, 
technical lead, Cisco
•
TurboTax Online's Journey to Micro Services - Umed Zokirov, software engineer, Intuit
•
Using Couchbase Mobile for Offline Sync for Industrial Internet Applications - Michael Hart, senior software 
development manager, GE Global Research Center
•
Ingesting and Processing Data with Kafka and Hadoop - Michael Kehoe, site reliability engineer, LinkedIn
•
Applications Architecture with Couchbase and Node.js at DirecTV - Garrido Fidenco, principle engineer, 
DirecTV
•
Reinventing the Customer Experience at Ryanair with Couchbase Mobile - Vladimir Atanasov, lead 
developer, Ryanair
•
Finding NoSQL's Home in the Enterprise Data Strategy Roadmap - Gabe Arnett, senior director, platform 
technology solutions, Moody's Analytics
•
Interactive Data Analytics Using Couchbase - Arvind Jade, architect leader, Nielsen
•
Creating a Central Data Backbone at PayPal: Couchbase to Kafka to Hadoop and Back - Shibi 
Sudhakaran, software engineer, PayPal
•
A Digital Showroom Experience at Global Scale Powered by Couchbase Mobile - Didier Caron, software 
engineer, PVH
Couchbase Connect Keynotes
The 2015 Couchbase Connect conference will open with keynotes from CEO Bob Wiederhold and Senior Vice 
President of Engineering and ProductsRavi Mayuram. On day two, Bryan Cantrill, CTO of Joyent, will present a 
keynote on the simplicity and high-performance of running Couchbase on bare metal containers. Other real-world 
implementation keynotes will be announced shortly.
A general session panel on "Women in Coding" will discuss how the current technology skills gap can become a 
bridge to attracting more women to engineering. The panel will include engineering team leaders and innovators 
who are passionate about increasing diversity in the tech industry, including:
•
Dipti Borkar, senior director of solutions, pre-sales engineering, Couchbase
•
Maria Mokhnatkina, engineering manager, Motorola Mobile
•
Danese Cooper, distinguished member of technical staff, open source, PayPal
All-day, Hands-on Workshops Led by Couchbase Experts
The three-day event kicks off on June 2, with all-day, hands-on workshops for mobile, developer, administration and 
SQL for Documents (N1QL). Technologists and developers interested in learning how to administer NoSQL, build 
apps on NoSQL, develop mobile NoSQL or develop and deploy applications with SQL for Documents (N1QL) can 
sign up now.
Couchbase Connect Sponsors
The Couchbase eco-system continues to grow rapidly. Partners including Avalon Consulting, LLC, Firefly Logic, 
Intel, Joyent, Simba and Vormetric will be speaking and sponsoring the conference.
CORRECTING and REPLACING Fortune 500 Customers to Showcase NoSQL Journey at Couchbase 
Connect 2015; Cisco, DirecTV, GE Global Research Center, Intuit TurboTax, ....
For more information about sponsorship opportunities, please contact sponsor@couchbase.com
Tweet This: Couchbase Partners Intel, Simba, Vormetric & more participating in #CBConnect on June 2 - 4            
http://bit.ly/1GWoxh9
Register for Couchbase Connect 2015 today and stay updated on the event by using the            #CBConnect 
hashtag on twitter.
Tweet This : Couchbase Connect: June 2 - 4 at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara - #NoSQL NoLimits #CBConnect       
     http://bit.ly/1cizqg0
About Couchbase
Couchbase delivers the world's highest performing NoSQL distributed database platform. Developers around the 
world use the Couchbase platform to build enterprise web, mobile, and IoT applications that support massive data 
volumes in real time. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase Server, Couchbase Lite - the first mobile 
NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. Couchbase is designed for global deployments, with 
configurable cross data center replication to increase data locality and availability. All Couchbase products are open 
source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, AT&T, Bally's, Beats Music, BSkyB, Cisco, Comcast, 
Concur, Disney, eBay, KDDI, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Orbitz, Rakuten / Viber, Tencent, Verizon, Wells Fargo, 
Willis Group, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, and West Summit.
www.couchbase.com
CONTACT: MSLGROUP
Iris Herrera Whitney, 415-817-2514
couchbase@mslgroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 8, 2015
End of Document
Couchbase Continues Massive European Growth Couchbase Live, One of the Biggest NoSQL Events in 
Europe, Draws More than 1,000 Registrants to Learn from Couchbase....
Couchbase Continues Massive European Growth; Couchbase Live, One of 
the Biggest NoSQL Events in Europe, Draws More than 1,000 Registrants to 
Learn from Couchbase Big Data Experts and Industry Leaders including 
Amadeus, Criteo, Ryanair and Willis
Business Wire
March 19, 2015 Thursday 10:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 775 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. & LONDON 
Body
Couchbase, Inc. , provider of the most complete NoSQL database, continues to win new customers, grow adoption 
and expand its presence in Europe. Next week, the company will host its annual European user conference, 
Couchbase Live Europe on March 23, 2015, at Park Plaza Westminster in London. Developers, administrators and 
enterprise decision makers from across Europe will come together to hear from industry leaders, including 
Amadeus, Criteo, Ryanair and Willis Group, on why they selected Couchbase over other NoSQL solutions and how 
they are deploying NoSQL database technology to drive big data success and deliver value to the business.
Tweet This : Couchbase Continues Massive European Growth: annual user conference #CBLiveEUR attracts 
+1,000 registrants            http://ctt.ec/bdAWk+
"We are experiencing tremendous growth in Europe as more and more European businesses, including 
Continental, Tesco and Ryanair, select Couchbase Server over other NoSQL solutions," said Bob Wiederhold, CEO 
of Couchbase. "Couchbase Live Europe is an opportunity for developers, operations teams and business leaders to 
learn how NoSQL can deliver value from big data initiatives. Attendees will also learn first hand about powerful new 
technology we will announce that vastly expands the performance of a distributed database."
The conference will include customer led sessions giving attendees the opportunity to learn best practices from 
some of Europe's most successful businesses.
Customer presentations will include:
•
Couchbase Usage in Critical Amadeus Systems: A Return of Experience, by Dietmar Fauser, Vice 
President of Architecture, Quality and Governance, Amadeus
•
Why Ryanair Chose Couchbase Server and Mobile to Become More Customer Centric, Paul Sheridan, 
Ryanair, Lead Technical Architect
Couchbase Continues Massive European Growth Couchbase Live, One of the Biggest NoSQL Events in 
Europe, Draws More than 1,000 Registrants to Learn from Couchbase....
•
Couchbase at Willis: Alternative NoSQL Use Cases, by Rob Harty, Development Manager, Analytics 
Technology Team, Willis Group
•
Real Time Advertising at NoSQL Speed, Nicolas Helleringer, Site Reliability Engineering Manager, Criteo
•
Turkish Ministry of Health: Electronic Healthcare Records with NoSQL, Mehmeet Ercan, CEO Big Data 
Labs
•
Couchbase Mobile Integration: iPhone / Android / Web, Catherine Woolger, CEO, SmartTradeApp
•
Viber: NoSQL Performance at Scale, Amir Ish-Shalom, Chief Architect, Viber
Tweet This : NoSQL drives business success: Ryanair, Criteo, Willis among customers presenting big data stories 
@ #CBLiveEUR            http://ctt.ec/md55W+
The day-long event will also feature 35 in-depth breakout sessions and workshops, including hands-on learning for 
Couchbase Mobile, eight sessions on N1QL - the SQL for Documents query language - and a closed door customer 
panel moderated by Matt Aslett, research director for 451 Research. The customer panel will be open only to 
Couchbase Live Europe attendees, with no Couchbase employees in the room, giving the community a chance to 
openly share experiences, best practices and recommendations for product requests.
During the sessions, attendees will learn how to:
•
Leverage NoSQL and Hadoop to build real-time big data solutions using out of the box integrations that 
Couchbase has delivered for Cloudera, Hortonworks, Kafka and Spark
•
Develop and deploy mission critical applications with Couchbase Server, the most scalable and best 
performing NoSQL distributed database
•
Create better mobile experiences using Couchbase Mobile, the only complete NoSQL mobile solution
Learn more about Couchbase Live Europe.
About Couchbase
Couchbase provides the world's most complete, most scalable and best performing NoSQL database. Couchbase 
Server is designed from a simple yet bold vision: build the first and best, general-purpose NoSQL database. That 
goal has resulted in an industry leading solution that includes a shared nothing architecture, a single node-type, a 
built in caching layer, true auto-sharding and the world's first NoSQL mobile offering: Couchbase Mobile, a 
complete NoSQL mobile solution comprised of Couchbase Server, Couchbase Sync Gateway and Couchbase Lite. 
Couchbase Server and all Couchbase Mobile products are open source projects. Couchbase counts many of the 
worlds biggest brands as its customers, including Amadeus, Bally's, Beats Music, Cisco, Comcast, Concur, Disney, 
eBay / PayPal, Neiman Marcus, Orbitz, Rakuten / Viber, Sky, Tencent and Verizon, as well as hundreds of other 
household names worldwide. Couchbase is headquartered in Silicon Valley, and has raised $115 million in funding 
from Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge Venture Partners and 
WestSummit. www.couchbase.com
CONTACT: Bite for Couchbase
Preeti Wali, 315-727-8858
Couchbase@biteglobal.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
Couchbase Continues Massive European Growth Couchbase Live, One of the Biggest NoSQL Events in 
Europe, Draws More than 1,000 Registrants to Learn from Couchbase....
End of Document
Avolon Lands Salmon Software Treasury Management System - Automated treasury system (TMS) to help 
manage debt facilities
Avolon Lands Salmon Software Treasury Management System; - Automated 
treasury system (TMS) to help manage debt facilities
Business Wire
February 17, 2015 Tuesday 9:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 402 words
Dateline: DUBLIN & LONDON 
Body
Avolon, the international aircraft leasing company, has installed a Treasury Management System (TMS) from 
Salmon Software ( www.salmonsoftware.com ). The global aircraft leasing firm has successfully implemented 
Salmon Treasurer to allow it to effectively manage its debt facilities which comprised in excess of $4.25bn of 
secured and unsecured debt at the end of September 2014.
The software is part of the Salmon Treasurer TMS aimed at corporate treasurers to manage debt, foreign 
exchange, money market, treasury, banking transactions and many other related corporate treasury activities.
Avolon provides leasing and lease management services to airlines and aircraft investors worldwide. Avolon's 
owned, managed and committed portfolio consisted of 235 aircraft serving 49 customers in 28 countries at the end 
of 2014.
"Effectively managing $4.25bn of debt facilities is complex. Now implemented, Salmon Treasurer has allowed 
Avolon to better manage and account for a wide variety of debt facilities and debt structures. The system is intuitive 
and flexible and meets the needs of a leading financial services organization with diversified sources of debt 
financing," commented David Murray, Treasurer, Avolon.
"We selected Salmon Software because of its track record in aircraft leasing combined with its competitive cost and 
rapid implementation."
John Byrne, CEO, Salmon Software, which is headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, added, "This contract is another 
demonstration of Salmon's ability to help companies manage diversified balance sheets. As one of the few 
remaining independent specialist TMS providers, we are winning increased business globally. Salmon Treasurer is 
rich in functionality, highly robust and stable, easy to implement and comes at a reasonable price."
Independent Salmon Software (            www.salmonsoftware.com ), which has specialised in treasury management 
solutions for almost three decades, works with other blue chip aircraft corporates including Airbus, AWAS and 
Ryanair. Salmon Treasurer is available across a range of modules including cash management, debt and 
Avolon Lands Salmon Software Treasury Management System - Automated treasury system (TMS) to help 
manage debt facilities
derivatives, credit facilities, money markets, electronic payments and trade finance to provide a complete solution to 
managing a treasury operation.
Salmon Treasurer can now be deployed as an on premise or cloud computing TMS solution.
ends
CONTACT: Simpson Consulting Ronnie Simpson
T: + 353 1 260 5300
ronnie@simpsonconsulting.ie
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 18, 2015
End of Document
Research and Markets: Global Low-Cost Carrier Market 2015-2019: easyJet , JetBlue Airways , Ryanair & 
Southwest Airlines Dominate the Skies
Research and Markets: Global Low-Cost Carrier Market 2015-2019: easyJet, 
JetBlue Airways, Ryanair & Southwest Airlines Dominate the Skies
Business Wire
February 17, 2015 Tuesday 7:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 378 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/53xzpl/global_lowcost ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Global Low-Cost Carrier Market 2015-2019" report to their offering.
The Global Low Cost Carrier market to grow at a CAGR of 10.42% over the period 2014-2019
LCCs also known as no-frills or budget carriers are the airlines that offer economical airfares. They maintain 
efficiency and lean operating costs through various measures such as flight operations from secondary airports, 
standard fleet of similar aircraft, fast turnaround times, distribution through direct channels, and strict cost cutting 
measures.
The launch of fuel efficiency initiatives is a major trend in the market. These initiatives help in reducing fuel costs 
and increase the operating efficiency of an airline. LCCs have been a force behind the large number of orders for 
new aircraft and the implementation of several fuel-efficient measures.
According to the report, low airfares have been one of the significant competitive advantages of LCCs, when it 
comes to competing with full service carriers. It has enabled LCCs to grab market share from FSCs and has 
extensively helped in the growth of the Global Low-cost Carrier market.
Further, the report states that one of the major challenges faced by the market is that LCCs are vulnerable to 
economic uncertainties. This is primarily because of their low-fare business model and dependence on the Price-
conscious Passenger segment. The slowdown in economic growth might affect the growth of the LCC market.
Key Vendors
•
easyJet
•
JetBlue Airways
•
Ryanair
•
Southwest Airlines
Research and Markets: Global Low-Cost Carrier Market 2015-2019: easyJet , JetBlue Airways , Ryanair & 
Southwest Airlines Dominate the Skies
Other Prominent Vendors
•
AirAsia
•
Azul (Azul Linhas Aéreas Brasileiras)
•
Cebu Pacific Air
•
Flydubai
•
GoAir
•
GOL (Gol Transportes Aéreos)
•
Indigo
•
Jet Lite Limited
•
Jetstar Airways
•
Lion Air
•
Norwegian Air Shuttle
•
Pegasus Airlines
•
Royal Air Maroc
•
SpiceJet
•
Thai AirAsia
•
Tigerair
•
Virgin Australia
•
WestJet Airlines
•
Wizz Air
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/53xzpl/global_lowcost
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Aviation
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 18, 2015
End of Document
Couchbase Doubles Business in 2014 with Oracle and MongoDB Replacements New Customer Wins and 
Expansion Deals at Leading Enterprises, including AOL , AT&T, Bank....
Couchbase Doubles Business in 2014 with Oracle and MongoDB 
Replacements; New Customer Wins and Expansion Deals at Leading 
Enterprises, including AOL, AT&T, Bankrate, British Gas, Comcast, Concur, 
Cisco, eBay, Experian, Gannett, Nordstrom, Ryanair, SGN, Tesco, Verizon, 
and more
Business Wire
January 30, 2015 Friday 10:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 1754 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 
Body
Couchbase, Inc. , provider of the most complete NoSQL database, today announced record growth in 2014, 
doubling sales while achieving major milestones in customer wins around the world, delivering innovative new 
products, and globally expanding distribution through direct sales and new partners. Couchbase concluded the year 
in Q4 with new customer momentum, securing its largest number of multi-million dollar deals to-date and expanding 
relationships with some of its largest accounts.
"2014 was a decisive year for Couchbase and the distributed database market as many of the Fortune 500 
deployed NoSQL to support mission-critical applications," said Couchbase CEO Bob Wiederhold. "As we head into 
2015, we are hearing more CIOs articulate visions for broad enterprise re-platforming. These plans will further 
accelerate Couchbase Server adoption and we anticipate rapid growth fueled by superior performance and support 
for the broadest set of enterprise class use cases for big data, cloud, mobile, and Internet of Things applications."
Click to Tweet : #NoSQL vendor @Couchbase doubles business in 2014. Driven by multi-million $$ deals + 
replacing #Oracle & #MongoDB            bit.ly/cb2xbiz14
2014 Highlights
Replacing Oracle
In 2014, much of Couchbase's growth was fueled by large corporations moving various mission-critical applications 
off Oracle RDBMS. Many cloud and Internet applications built on Oracle simply cannot scale to meet today's big 
data demands, and Oracle's NoSQL solution of storing JSON documents in a relational table does not solve 
customer needs.
The Nielsen Company is one of these companies. Nielsen's "Answers on Demand" application ingests billions of 
data points from point-of-sales, household panels, and loyalty cards to provide customers like P&G, Walmart, and 
Couchbase Doubles Business in 2014 with Oracle and MongoDB Replacements New Customer Wins and 
Expansion Deals at Leading Enterprises, including AOL , AT&T, Bank....
Tesco with near real-time product sales trends. The ability to sift through datasets quickly and effectively is critical. 
Arvind Jade, architecture lead at Nielsen, explains to Baseline Magazine:
"By moving the metadata to Couchbase, we were able to dramatically improve the efficiency of the system and 
speed data delivery. We are able to query against the index and target specific documents, something we were not 
able to do previously. We are able to react in a more agile and flexible way," Jade explains. Moreover, the NoSQL 
approach has reduced the time required to manage and update systems. "We can use IT staff to add greater value 
to the business."
Read more at Baseline Magazine
Click to Tweet : Nielsen increases agility by replacing #Oracle RDBMS with @Couchbase #NoSQL            
bit.ly/cb2xbiz14
Replacing MongoDB
Since 2007, MongoDB has seeded the market with developer adoption and piloted NoSQL projects at large 
corporations. As those projects have grown, and the applications become mission-critical, MongoDB has failed to 
deliver the performance at scale required by enterprise class applications. That has created a big opportunity for 
Couchbase. In 2014, Couchbase saw a spike in MongoDB replacements as more and more companies, like Viber, 
came up against MongoDB limitations.
In the highly competitive Over-the-Top Messaging space, Viber is first in registered users with almost 1 billion 
users. Amir Ish-Shalom, system architect at Viber, explained why they replaced MongoDB with Couchbase Server:
"There were problems; first and foremost, the performance of MongoDB only gave us tens of thousands of 
operations per second, whereas we needed hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of operations per second. It had 
problems with very large datasets; we have datasets that are in the billions of records and we found the 
performance wasn't good when using these.This brought us to Couchbase."
Watch this video to hear Viber detail how it supports almost 1 billion users with Couchbase Server.
Click to Tweet : Viber halves servers needed by replacing #MongoDB with @Couchbase.            bit.ly/cb2xbiz14
Expanding Use Cases in Existing Accounts and Adding New Fortune 500 Enterprises across Industries
•
Enterprise Adoption: NoSQL made enormous progress in 2014 with large enterprises from every industry 
beginning to adopt NoSQL for mission-critical applications. Couchbase greatly increased the total number 
of million-plus dollar deals and added many new customers from around the globe, including AT&T, BMW, 
BSkyB, British Gas, Neiman Marcus, Nikkei, Orange, Ryanair, Tesco, Wells Fargo, and Verizon.
•
Use Case Expansion: Many early adopters of Couchbase technology expanded their use of Couchbase 
Server and Couchbase Mobile to support new use cases. Customers who expanded their use of 
Couchbase include Blizzard, Comcast Spotlight, eBay, LivePerson, PayPal , and            SGN .
•
Industry Adoption: In 2014, NoSQL adoption picked-up across many industries. Couchbase saw significant 
momentum in key industries, including retail, with customers like Tesco, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, and 
one of the largest big box retailers in the United States; financial services, with customers like Bankrate, 
FICO, Wells Fargo, and Willis Group ; travel & transportation, with customers like Amadeus, Belgium Rail, 
Experian, Network Rail, Orbitz, and Ryanair; music and entertainment, with companies like Beats Music 
and Disney; technology, with customers like AOL, Cisco, eBay, PayPal, and Symantec; and 
communications, with customers like AT&T, BSkyB, and Verizon.
Click to Tweet : Business growth accelerates @Couchbase as existing customers expand #NoSQL document and 
key value use cases.            bit.ly/cb2xbiz14
Couchbase Doubles Business in 2014 with Oracle and MongoDB Replacements New Customer Wins and 
Expansion Deals at Leading Enterprises, including AOL , AT&T, Bank....
Defined the Market with Product Innovation and New Releases
•
Distributed Database Innovation: In October, the company released Couchbase Server 3.0 , the most 
significant release to-date with more than 200 new features and major architectural enhancements that 
improve scalability, performance, availability, administration, security, and ease-of-development. 
Couchbase Server 3.0 meets the requirements of enterprises that are re-platforming to support multiple 
use cases, increase efficiency, and improve business agility in a world of big data, mobile, social 
interaction, cloud infrastructure, and the Internet of Things.
•
Mobile Innovation: In May, Couchbase redefined the way mobile developers build applications with the 
release of Couchbase Mobile for iOS and Android . Couchbase Mobile is the world's first NoSQL mobile 
database and sync technology that gives developers out-of-the-box, platform-native technology to build 
always-available apps that work online and offline. In October, the company released            Couchbase 
Mobile for .NET , co-developed with Xamarin.
•
Storage Innovation: In October, Couchbase announced the beta release of ForestDB , its new open source 
data store for future versions of Couchbase Server.            Internal benchmarking showed that ForestDB 
consistently outperforms LevelDB, RocksDB, and SQLite for mobile deployments with at least two times 
better throughput in write performance. ForestDB also outperformed MongoDB's WiredTiger in recent 
mixed workload tests.
•
Performance Superiority: Couchbase continued to demonstrate product superiority in third party 
evaluations. The 2014 NoSQL High Performance benchmark proved that Couchbase Server significantly 
outperforms MongoDB and Datastax in meeting enterprise requirements for speed, performance, and 
reliability.
"Over the last 30 years, Ryanair has experienced exponential growth. We continue to transform the landscape of 
low-cost travel throughout Europe and beyond", said Paul Sheridan, technical architect. "In 2014 we carried over 86 
million passengers. That's a lot of customers and a lot of data. Couchbase will not only store that data but will 
provide the consistency, high performance, and availability needed to ensure Ryanair becomes one of the most 
customer-centric European brands in 2015."
Click to Tweet : Competitive win at Ryanair caps off impressive 2014 @Couchbase - selected for high performance 
and availability.            bit.ly/cb2xbiz14
Continued Investment in the Business and Global Expansion into New Markets
•
International Growth: To support growing international demand for NoSQL, as well as a rapidly expanding 
global customer base, including BMW, BSkyB, Criteo, Tesco, Viber, and Willis Group, Couchbase opened 
new offices in Paris, Beijing, Tokyo, Bangalore, and Tel Aviv. Looking ahead, Couchbase will continue its 
investment in Europe and grow its presence in the Asia Pacific region.
•
Employee Growth: In 2014, Couchbase focused on building a business that can scale to the billion dollar 
big data opportunity. This included expanding the management team, with the addition of experienced 
industry veterans, including Sujan Jain as chief financial officer,            Shekhar Iyer as senior vice 
president of field operations,            Rod Hamlin as vice president of business development, Pete Childers 
as vice president of learning and strategic development, and            Doug Laird as chief marketing officer, 
as well as tripling its global sales force.
•
Ecosystem Expansion: As the big data market continues to grow, vendor ecosystems play an emerging 
role in market penetration. Couchbase signed multiple new and expanded partnerships that grew its 
ecosystem for deployment options, product integrations, and system integrator expertise. New product 
partnerships include            Cloudera ,            Vormetric , and            Simba Technologies ; new cloud 
partners include            Cloudsoft, CumuLogic and ElasticBox ; and Couchbase signed a            significant 
agreement with Wipro Limited that includes the development of Couchbase Technology Center of 
Excellence.
Couchbase Doubles Business in 2014 with Oracle and MongoDB Replacements New Customer Wins and 
Expansion Deals at Leading Enterprises, including AOL , AT&T, Bank....
About Couchbase
Couchbase is world's highest performing NoSQL distributed database. Developers around the world use 
Couchbase to build enterprise web, mobile, and IoT applications that support massive data volumes in real 
time.Couchbase Server is designed for global deployments, with configurable cross data center replication to 
increase data locality and availability. The Couchbase platform includes Couchbase Server, Couchbase Lite - the 
first mobile NoSQL database, and Couchbase Sync Gateway. All Couchbase products are open source projects.
Couchbase customers include industry leaders like AOL, AT&T, Bally's, Beats Music, BSkyB, Cisco, Comcast, 
Concur, Disney, eBay, KDDI, Nordstorm, Neiman Marcus, Orbitz, PayPal, Rakuten / Viber, Tencent, Verizon, Wells 
Fargo, Willis Group, as well as hundreds of other household names.
Couchbase investors include Accel Partners, Adams Street Partners, Ignition Partners, Mayfield Fund, North Bridge 
Venture Partners, and West Summit.
www.couchbase.com
CONTACT: Bite for Couchbase
Preeti Wali, 315-727-8858
Couchbase@biteglobal.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 31, 2015
End of Document
ADARA Expands Presence into Middle East
ADARA Expands Presence into Middle East
Business Wire
January 22, 2015 Thursday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 440 words
Dateline: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 
Body
ADARA , the leader in leveraging global travel data to drive future business performance, today announced its 
expansion into the Middle East. Nick Mott has been hired as regional director for the Middle East, Africa and Turkey 
and will be based out of Dubai. He will focus on strengthening existing and building new client relationships in the 
region.
ADARA's investment in the Middle East has been driven by the success of regional travel companies, like Emirates 
and Etihad Airways, who are pursuing aggressive expansion plans to develop their market presence in foreign 
territories.
Having worked in the Middle East for the last four years and the United Kingdom before that, Mott's experience 
complements the needs of these companies. He has 16 years experience in the digital marketing industry and has 
joined ADARA after spending five and a half years at Yahoo!, departing as client development director for travel, 
tourism and retail.
"The intricacies of the Middle Eastern market are such that local expertise, relationships and market understanding 
are imperative for driving success. Nick's expertise in the digital advertising sector and in-depth knowledge of the 
region will be vital in helping our clients achieve their goals, and we are delighted to have him on board," said 
Elizabeth Harz, president of media at ADARA.
Mott added, "With digital advertising set to grow at a compound rate of 34 percent over the next three years, the 
Middle East is set to experience huge industry growth. And, given that eight in 10 people use smartphones here, 
there is significant opportunity in the region for ADARA to provide quality data that will help local travel companies 
pursue their global expansion plans."
ADARA is planning to expand in Dubai further with the hiring of new team members. In addition to supporting its 
existing customers in the region, the team will focus on finding new data partners to bolster its local marketing 
offering.
About ADARA
ADARA Expands Presence into Middle East
ADARAleverages globaltraveldatato drive future business performance.ADARA's Magellan platform transforms 
loyalty, search and booking data into actionable knowledge that allows companies to better understand, reach and 
engage customers. The platform is fueledbyfirst party datafrom more than 80 global travel brands, includingUnited, 
Ryanair, Etihad Airways, ACCOR, MarriottandHertz.Founded in 2009, the company has 15 offices across the U.S., 
Europe, Middle East and Asia, including its headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. For more information, visit 
ADARA.com or follow us on Twitter            @adaraglobal .
CONTACT: Horn Group for ADARA
Valerie Beesley, 646-202-9767
adarateam@horngroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 23, 2015
End of Document
Research and Markets: The Future of Airlines in France to 2018
Research and Markets: The Future of Airlines in France to 2018
Business Wire
January 6, 2015 Tuesday 2:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 264 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/vffr87/the_future_of ) has announced the 
addition of the            "The Future of Airlines in France to 2018: Market Profile" report to their offering.
"The Future of Airlines in France to 2018: Market Profile" is the result of extensive research on the travel and 
tourism industry covering the airlines market in France. It provides detailed analysis on key trends and issues, 
market size and forecasts, key performance indicators and competitive landscape in the French airlines market.
The report also includes an overview of the French travel and tourism industry covering key trends, barriers to 
tourism and tourist attractions with a detailed SWOT analysis of the tourism industry in France. Review and forecast 
data for tourism demand factors and market indicators has also been included in the report. This report also 
provides an overview of the leading companies in the airlines market in France.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Introduction
2 The Travel And Tourism Sector In Context
3 Airlines
4 Company Profiles - Airlines
5 Market Data Analysis
6 Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Air France-KLM
•
easyJet Plc
•
Ryanair France
•
Lufthansa France
Research and Markets: The Future of Airlines in France to 2018
•
Vueling Airlines France
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/vffr87/the_future_of
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 7, 2015
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Germany to 2018
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Germany to 2018
Business Wire
November 10, 2014 Monday 8:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 334 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/fhm72h/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Travel and Tourism in Germany to 2018" report to their offering.
Germany is one of Europe's leading travel and tourism destinations, and has built a reputation as being a leader in 
terms of both leisure and business travel. The country emerged from the financial crisis and subsequent European 
debt crisis relatively unscathed, and its travel and tourism sector recorded growth during the review period (2009-
2013). The World Economic Forum's Travel and Tourism (WEF T&T) Competitiveness Index 2013 ranked Germany 
as one of the safest travel destinations in the world, and according to the World Travel and Tourism Council 
(WTTC) it was the seventh-most-visited country globally in 2012.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Executive Summary
2 The Travel and Tourism Sector In Context
3 Country Fact Sheet
4 Tourism Flows
5 Airlines
6 Hotels
7 Car Rental
8 Travel Intermediaries
9 Tourism Board Profile
10 Airport Profiles
11 Company Profiles - Airlines
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Germany to 2018
12 Company Profiles - Hotels
13 Company Profiles - Car Rental
14 Company Profiles - Travel Intermediaries
15 Market Data Analysis
16 Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Deutsche Lufthansa AG
•
Air Berlin Plc & Co. Luftverkehrs KG
•
Germanwings GmbH
•
easyJet Plc
•
Ryanair Holdings Plc
•
Accor SA
•
Best Western International, Inc.
•
Gut-Hotels-gruppe Germany
•
Ringhotels eV
•
Romantik Hotels & Restaurants AG
•
Sixt SE
•
Holiday Autos Germany
•
Europcar Germany
•
Hertz Autovermietung GmbH
•
Avis Autovermietung GmbH & Co KG
•
TUI Deutschland GmbH
•
Thomas Cook AG
•
Alltours Flugreisen GmbH
•
DER Touristik Frankfurt GmbH & Co. KG
•
FTI Touristik GmbH
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/fhm72h/travel_and
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Germany to 2018
Load-Date: November 11, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Aviation Market in Europe 2014-2018: Key Vendors are Deutsche Lufthansa , Ryanair , 
London Heathrow Airport and Paris Charles De Gaulle Ai....
Research and Markets: Aviation Market in Europe 2014-2018: Key Vendors 
are Deutsche Lufthansa, Ryanair, London Heathrow Airport and Paris 
Charles De Gaulle Airport
Business Wire
November 7, 2014 Friday 11:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Aviation Writers
Length: 425 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/lsf48f/aviation_market ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Aviation Market in Europe 2014-2018" report to their offering.
Aviation includes airports and airlines; the Aviation market in Europe considers both the Airports and Airlines 
markets in Europe. This market provides details about some of the legacy airlines in the world such as Lufthansa 
and Ryanair and some of the world's busiest airports such as London Heathrow Airport and Paris Charles De 
Gaulle Airport. These airports generate a large amount of revenue from both aeronautical and non-aeronautical 
sources. The Aviation market in Europe facilitates the growth of tourism and trade in this geography.
The analysts forecast the Aviation market in Europe to grow at a CAGR of 4.21 percent over the period 2013-2018.
This report covers the present scenario and the growth prospects of the Aviation market in the Europe for the period 
2014-2018. To calculate the market size, the report considers the revenue passenger kilometers (RPK) of airports 
and airlines in Europe.
Key Topics Covered:
01. Executive Summary
02. List of Abbreviations
03. Scope of the Report
04. Market Research Methodology
05. Introduction
06. Market Landscape
Research and Markets: Aviation Market in Europe 2014-2018: Key Vendors are Deutsche Lufthansa , Ryanair , 
London Heathrow Airport and Paris Charles De Gaulle Ai....
07. Market Segmentation
08. Share of Airlines in Alliance Networks
09. Buying Criteria
10. Market Growth Drivers
11. Drivers and their Impact
12. Market Challenges
13. Impact of Drivers and Challenges
14. Market Trends
15. Trends and their Impact
16. Vendor Landscape
17. Key Vendor Analysis for the Airlines Market in Europe
18. Key Vendor Analysis for the Airports Market in the Middle East
19. Other Reports in this Series
Companies Mentioned:
•
Aeroflot
•
AnkarEsenboga Airport
•
Athens International Airport
•
CSA Czech Airlines
•
Deutsche Lufthansa
•
Istanbul Sabiha Gokcen Airport
•
LOT Polish Airlines
•
London Gatwick Airport
•
London Heathrow Airport
•
Moscow Domodedovo Airport
•
Moscow Sheremetyevo Airpor
•
Moscow Vnukovo Airport
•
Norwegian Air Shuttle
•
Paris Charles De Gaulle Airport
•
Pegasus Airlines
•
Prague Václav Havel Airport
•
Rossiya Russian Airlines
•
Ryanair
•
S7 Airlines
Research and Markets: Aviation Market in Europe 2014-2018: Key Vendors are Deutsche Lufthansa , Ryanair , 
London Heathrow Airport and Paris Charles De Gaulle Ai....
•
Saint Petersburg Pulkovo Airport
•
Transaero Airlines
•
UTair Aviatio
•
WarsawFrederic Chopin Airport
•
Wizz Air
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/lsf48f/aviation_market
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Aviation
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 8, 2014
End of Document
WTM Global Trends Report by Euromonitor Predicts Future Travel Trends
WTM Global Trends Report by Euromonitor Predicts Future Travel Trends
Business Wire
October 22, 2014 Wednesday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers
Length: 405 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Euromonitor International has accurately predicted global travel trends in partnership with World Travel Market 
(WTM) for nine years. Three of the most popular and successful trends from the WTM Global Trends Report 2013 
are:
PANKs - A new demographic
The WTM Global Trends Report 2013 identified a new travel industry segment: the PANKs or the 'Professional 
Aunt, No Kids' demographic.
In August 2014, the Westin New York Grand Central created a package targeting childless women called 
'Womanhood Redefined', promoted in partnership with bestselling author Melanie Notkin, an expert on the growing 
group of women with no children.
Fight for cruise control in China
The report predicted that China will become a key market for cruise companies.
In August 2014, Carnival Corporation's CEO, Arnold Donald told the Financial Times, "I see China in the future as 
being the number one cruise market in the world."
The latest Euromonitor data shows China's cruise industry grew 10% last year, to reach US$6.8 million in 2013.
Low cost goes upmarket in the Middle East
Middle East low cost carriers are introducing business class-style services, a trend set to spread worldwide, 
according to the 2013 report.
The latest Euromonitor data shows business arrivals in the Middle East grew 7% globally from 2011-2013. Many 
low cost airlines are tapping into this market, including Ryanair, which launched its business class service in August 
2014.
WTM Global Trends Report by Euromonitor Predicts Future Travel Trends
The WTM Global Trends Report 2014 by Euromonitor International will be launched at London's Excel Centre 
during a press conference on Monday 3rd November at 13:00 in the Platinum Suite 5&6. A session for WTM 
attendees will be held on Tuesday 4th November at 15:30 in Platinum Suite 1.
Pre-register to receive the WTM Global Trends Report 2014 at http://go.euromonitor.com/WTM-2014-Pre-
registration-global-trends-report.html .
About Euromonitor International
Euromonitor International is the world's leading provider for strategic market analysis, with over 40 years of 
experience publishing international market reports, reference books and online databases on consumer markets.
About World Travel Market
World Travel Market, the leading global event for the travel industry, is the must-attend four-day business-to-
business exhibition for the worldwide travel industry.
CONTACT: Euromonitor International
Violetta Scola
Senior Communications Executive
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7251 8024 EXT 1360
Violetta.scola@euromonitor.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 23, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in France to 2018
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in France to 2018
Business Wire
October 7, 2014 Tuesday 3:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 379 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/gzm6ml/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Travel and Tourism in France to 2018" report to their offering.
France retained its position as the world's leading tourism destination in 2013, in terms of tourist volume. The 
country received 86.1 million international visitors that year, an increase of 3.7% over 2012. In terms of expenditure, 
however, the sector declined in 2013 due to the uncertainties in Europe's economic environment, as it is the region 
from where the country attracts its largest number of tourists.
Scope
•
It details historical values for the French tourism sector for 2009-2013, along with forecast figures for 2014-
2018.
•
It provides comprehensive analysis of travel and tourism demand factors, with values for both the 2009-
2013 review period and the 2014-2018 forecast period.
•
The report provides a detailed analysis and forecast of domestic, inbound and outbound tourist flows in 
France.
•
It provides comprehensive analysis of the trends in the airline, hotel, car rental and travel intermediaries 
industries, with values for both the 2009-2013 review period and the 2014-2018 forecast period.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Executive Summary
2 The Travel and Tourism Sector in Context
3 Country Fact Sheet
4 Tourism Flows
5 Airlines
6 Hotels
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in France to 2018
7 Car Rental
8 Travel Intermediaries
9 Tourism Board Profile
10 Airport Profiles
11 Company Profiles - Airlines
12 Company Profiles - Hotels
13 Company Profiles - Car Rental
14 Company Profiles - Travel Intermediaries
15 Market Data Analysis
16 Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Air France
•
EasyJet
•
Ryanair
•
Lufthansa
•
Vueling Airlines
•
Logis International
•
Accor SA
•
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc
•
SEH United Hoteliers
•
Chateaux & Hotels Collection
•
Carlson Wagonlit Voyages
•
TUI Travel
•
Club Méditerranée
•
Thomas Cook
•
Arts Et Vie Paris
•
Europcar
•
Hertz
•
Avis
•
Alphabet France Fleet Management
•
Enterprise Holdings, Inc.
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/gzm6ml/travel_and
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in France to 2018
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 8, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Spain to 2018
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Spain to 2018
Business Wire
October 2, 2014 Thursday 12:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers
Length: 407 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/w2f47w/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Travel and Tourism in Spain to 2018" report to their offering.
The Spanish travel and tourism sector suffered from the consequences of a prolonged phase of economic instability 
and low consumer confidence due to the eurozone debt crisis. The sector contracted during the review period 
(2009-2013) in terms of tourist flows, while tourism expenditure registered only a marginal growth. The decline was 
largely due to the economic crisis, as well as higher unemployment rates, and austerity measures such as 
increased taxes.
Scope:
•
It details historical values for the Spanish tourism sector for 2009-2013, along with forecast figures for 
2014-2018.
•
It provides comprehensive analysis of travel and tourism demand factors, with values for both the 2009-
2013 review period and the 2014-2018 forecast period.
•
The report provides a detailed analysis and forecast of domestic, inbound and outbound tourist flows in 
Spain.
•
It provides comprehensive analysis of the trends in the airline, hotel, car rental and travel intermediaries 
industries, with values for both the 2009-2013 review period and the 2014-2018 forecast period.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Executive Summary
2 The Travel and Tourism Sector in Context
3 Country Fact Sheet
4 Tourism Flows
5 Airlines
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Spain to 2018
6 Hotels
7 Car Rental
8 Travel Intermediaries
9 Tourism Board Profile
10 Airport Profiles
11 Company Profiles - Airlines
12 Company Profiles - Hotels
13 Company Profiles - Car Rental
14 Company Profiles - Travel Intermediaries
15 Market Data Analysis
16 Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Air Europa Líneas Aéreas, SAU
•
Avis Alquile un Coche SA
•
Budget Rent-a-car Spain
•
Carlson Wagonlit Espaaa, SLU
•
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Spain
•
Europcar Ib, SA
•
Expedia Spain
•
Hertz Rent-a-car Spain
•
Iberia Líneas Aéreas de Espaaa, SA
•
Intercontinental Hotels Spain
•
Marriott Spain
•
Meliá Hotels International SA
•
NH Hoteles SA
•
Ole Spain Tours
•
Paradores de Turismo de Espaaa
•
Ryanair Spain
•
Thomson Holidays Spain
•
Viajes El Corte Inglés, SA
•
Vueling Airlines SA
•
easyJet Spain
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/w2f47w/travel_and
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Spain to 2018
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 3, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Italy to 2018
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Italy to 2018
Business Wire
October 1, 2014 Wednesday 12:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers
Length: 387 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/p7mxd8/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Travel and Tourism in Italy to 2018" report to their offering.
The travel and tourism sector in Italy suffered from a prolonged phase of economic instability and lower levels of 
consumer confidence. As a result, the overall sector contracted significantly during the review period in terms of 
tourist flow, while tourism expenditure registered only a marginal growth. The decline was largely due to the 
economic crisis, high unemployment and increased taxes.
Scope:
•
It details historical values for the Italian tourism sector for 2009-2013, along with forecast figures for 2014-
2018 .
•
It provides comprehensive analysis of travel and tourism demand factors, with values for both the 2009-
2013 review period and the 2014-2018 forecast period.
•
The report provides a detailed analysis and forecast of domestic, inbound and outbound tourist flows in 
Italy.
•
It provides comprehensive analysis of the trends in the airline, hotel, car rental and travel intermediaries 
industries, with values for both the 2009-2013 review period and the 2014-2018 forecast period.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Executive Summary
•
The Travel and Tourism Sector In Context
•
Country Fact Sheet
•
Tourism Flows
•
Airlines
•
Hotels
•
Car Rental
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Italy to 2018
•
Travel Intermediaries
•
Tourism Board Profile
•
Airport Profiles
•
Company Profiles - Airlines
•
Company Profiles - Hotels
•
Company Profiles - Car Rental
•
Company Profiles - Travel Intermediaries
•
Market Data Analysis
•
Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Accor Hospitality Italia SRL
•
Air France Italy
•
Alitalia - Compagnia Aerea Italiana SpA
•
Avis Autonoleggio SpA
•
Best Western Italia ScpA
•
Bluvacanze SpA
•
Budget Autonoleggio Italy
•
Dimore d'Epoca
•
Europcar Italia SpA
•
Expedia Italy Srl
•
Hertz Italiana SpA
•
InterContinental Hotels Group Italy
•
NH Hoteles Italy
•
Ryanair Italy
•
Sixt Italy
•
TUI Travel Italy
•
Uvet American Express Corporate Travel SpA
•
Welcome Travel Group SpA
•
Wizz Air Italy
•
easyJet Italy
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/p7mxd8/travel_and
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Italy to 2018
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 2, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Airlines Market Report 2014
Research and Markets: Airlines Market Report 2014
Business Wire
August 12, 2014 Tuesday 11:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Aviation Writers
Length: 389 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/ztnkrg/airlines_market ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Airlines Market Report 2014" report to their offering.
Air transport to and from the UK can be divided into two segments: scheduled and non-scheduled services. Of the 
two, scheduled services accounts for the larger share of the market, and exhibited an increase of 2.7% in 2013. 
Non-scheduled services, which are typically operated by travel companies providing package holidays, exhibited a 
decline in 2013, falling by 6.1% in comparison to 2012.
According to this Airlines Market Report, the combined operating revenue generated by UK-based airlines in the 
year ending December 2012 increased by 0.5% on the previous year. However, over the same period, combined 
pre-tax profit among these airlines fell by 34.8%. Additionally, the total number of passengers uplifted by UK-based 
airlines on scheduled and non-scheduled flights increased by 1.4% in 2013 and by 9% between 2009 and 2013.
In the midst of the 2008/2009 global economic recession, the aviation industry in general including airlines faced 
challenging market conditions, with a combination of falling passenger numbers, reduced consumer expenditure, 
falling cargo volumes, and increasing taxation in the form of Air Passenger Duty (APD).
Key Topics Covered:
REPORT COVERAGE
MARKET SECTORS
MARKET TRENDS
ECONOMIC TRENDS
MARKET POSITION
THE TOTAL MARKET
BY MARKET SECTOR
Research and Markets: Airlines Market Report 2014
RECENT HISTORY
NUMBER OF COMPANIES
EMPLOYMENT
REGIONAL VARIATIONS IN THE MARKETPLACE
DISTRIBUTION
HOW ROBUST IS THE MARKET?
LEGISLATION
KEY TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
THE MARKETPLACE
MARKET LEADERS
OUTSIDE SUPPLIERS
MARKETING ACTIVITY
STRENGTHS
WEAKNESSES
OPPORTUNITIES
THREATS
CUSTOMER PROFILE
INTERNATIONAL AIR TRAVEL
Companies Mentioned:
•
British Airways PLC
•
easyJet Airline Company Ltd
•
Flybe Group PLC
•
Jet2.com Ltd
•
Monarch Airlines Ltd
•
Ryanair Holdings PLC
•
Thomas Cook Airlines Ltd
•
Thomson Airways Ltd
•
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/ztnkrg/airlines_market
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Research and Markets: Airlines Market Report 2014
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism ,            Aviation
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 13, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Global Online Travel Payment Snapshot 2014
Research and Markets: Global Online Travel Payment Snapshot 2014
Business Wire
March 24, 2014 Monday 12:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 574 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/3gcxbd/global_online ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Global Online Travel Payment Snapshot 2014" report to their offering.
Global Online Travel Payment Snapshot 2014 confirms that credit and debit card dominate in the vast dynamic 
market of online payment for travel and lodging, while alternative payment methods are slowly making inroads. 
Regarding these alternatives, report analyst Tatiana Teplova states alternative payment methods such as E-
Wallets, online banking and mobile payment are on the rise, and the digital currency Bitcoin is also accepted by 
some online travel agencies.
Global developments in online payments for online travel.
One general trend in online travel is the increasing use of mobile devices to make reservations, especially by 
business travellers and consumers who book last minute trips. With the increasing use of smartphones and tablet 
computers for travel planning, payment methods have to adapt to the emerging trend in consumer practice. A third 
of airlines already plan to facilitate the use of mobile payments for booking purposes in the next two years. PayPal 
is already accepted by an increasing number of travel booking websites.
Online payment fraud is a major concern of online travel agencies and booking websites. Though only around 1% 
of online travel payments is fraudulent, considering the size of the market, this is a significant number. Industry 
compliance with established safety regulations and keeping consumers informed about secure payment can 
contribute to decreasing the occurrence and cost of payment fraud.
Another trend on the online travel payments is towards immediate payment at the time of booking of hotels. Though 
both prepayment and reservation held by card for later payment at the desk are present on such travel booking 
websites as Booking.com and Expedia.com, on other such as on Hotels.com pre-payment has become the 
dominant option.
Regional variations in online payment for flights and lodging
Though online travel is a global market, peculiarities of local payment environments influence travel payment 
practice. For example, budget airline Ryanair accepts direct debits on its website in Germany, where they are 
Research and Markets: Global Online Travel Payment Snapshot 2014
popular, and does not take surcharges on them. Online travel booking website Hotelurbano.com, for which the 
primary market is Brazil, accepts the local banking payment method Boleto Bancario, while Japan-based All Nippon 
Airways accepts cash payment at convenience stores, which is an accepted payment practice in Japan. US airline 
companies United Airlines and Delta Air Lines offer the delayed payment method Bill Me Later, a PayPal brand, for 
customers with a billing addresses in the USA.
Key Topics Covered:
Management Summary
Overview and Trends
Payment Methods on Leading Online Travel Websites
Global Statistics
Regional and Country Insights
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/3gcxbd/global_online
About Research and Markets
Research and Markets is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We 
provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products and the latest trends.
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager.
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: E-Business ,            Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 25, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Market Research: Travel and Tourism in Morocco to 2017
Research and Markets: Market Research: Travel and Tourism in Morocco to 
2017
Business Wire
March 14, 2014 Friday 11:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 662 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/x4s2b2/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Travel and Tourism in Morocco to 2017" report to their offering.
The Moroccan travel and tourism sector registered slow growth during the review period (2008-2012), due to the 
European sovereign debt crisis and the Arab Spring uprisings in 2010. Government initiatives on domestic and 
international tourism promotions, the development of tourism infrastructure and increased government investments 
will develop the tourism sector over the forecast period (2013-2017).
The report provides detailed market analysis, information and insights, including:
- Historic and forecast tourist volumes covering the entire Moroccan travel and tourism sector
- Detailed analysis of tourist spending patterns in Morocco for various categories in the travel and tourism sector, 
such as accommodation, sightseeing and entertainment, food service, transportation, retail, travel intermediaries 
and others
- Detailed market classification across each category, with analysis using similar metrics
- Detailed analysis of the airline, hotel, car rental and travel intermediaries industries
Key Highlights
- In June 2013, the Ministry of Tourism launched the new edition of the Kounouz Biladi program to promote 
domestic tourism. Kounouz Biladi targets middle-class families who do not allocate budgets for trips. The ministry 
announced appealing prices and travel agencies provided attractive packages similar to those offered to 
international tourists during the 2012 edition of the program. The ministry also announced that Kounouz Biladi will 
be extended to other seasons to enable domestic tourists to benefit from discounts throughout the year.
- In July 2013, the tourism board increased its focus on countries such as China, Russia, Eastern Europe, North 
America and the Middle East to promote Morocco as an attractive tourist destination. The Moroccan National 
Research and Markets: Market Research: Travel and Tourism in Morocco to 2017
Tourist Office has already set up offices in Beijing and launched a promotion plan aiming to attract Chinese tourists. 
The office has also requested airlines in both Morocco and China to fly direct flights between the two countries.
- In June 2013, Royal Air Maroc announced that it will purchase 20 to 30 new aircraft by 2020, including five long-
haul aircraft. British Airways had increased the number of flights from seven to 10 between November 2012 to 
March 2013 between Marrakech and London. In April 2013, Ryanair has also renewed its long-term interest in the 
country by adding two bases in Marrakesh and Fez, increasing its Moroccan operations to 60 routes and eight 
airports, transporting 2.5 million passengers a year to the country.
Key Topics Covered:
Executive Summary
Travel and Tourism Sector In Context
Country Fact Sheet
Tourism Flows
Airlines
Hotels
Car Rental
Travel Intermediaries
Tourism Board Profile
Airport Profiles
Company Profiles - Airlines
Company Profiles - Hotels
Company Profiles - Car Rental
Company Profiles - Travel Intermediaries
Market Data Analysis
Appendix
List of Tables
List of Figures
Companies Mentioned
- Accor Hotels Morocco
- Authentic Journeys Morocco SARL
- Avis Car Rental Morocco
- Europcar Morocco Car Rental
- Hertz Rent a Car Morocco
Research and Markets: Market Research: Travel and Tourism in Morocco to 2017
- Hotusa Hotels Morocco
- Jetairfly.com
- Journey Beyond Travel
- Kenzi Hotels Group
- Louvre Hotels Morocco
- RIU Hotels & Resorts Morocco
- Royal Air Maroc
- Ryanair Holdings plc
- Sixt Rent a Car Morocco
- Voyage to Morocco
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/x4s2b2/travel_and
About Research and Markets
Research and Markets is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We 
provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products and the latest trends.
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 15, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Ireland to 2017
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Ireland to 2017
Business Wire
January 23, 2014 Thursday 9:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 579 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/cn7ltk/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Travel and Tourism in Ireland to 2017" report to their offering.
Overall tourist volumes decreased in Ireland during the review period (2008-2012), due to the declining disposable 
income of consumers. Inbound tourist volumes expanded at a CAGR of 4.45% during the review period, and is 
expected to increase over the forecast period (2013-2017) at a CAGR of 8.86%, supported by government 
initiatives to promote tourism across the European region.
Key Highlights
- Fáilte Ireland is extensively promoting overseas to attract more tourists by organizing cultural events such as the 
Gathering and Derry/Londonderry UK City of Culture.
- In July 2013, London and Dublin have planned to extend the Common Travel Area, which currently allowing 
unhampered travel for the citizens of both countries by creating a mini-Schengen area that enables tourists and 
business travelers from rapidly growing Asian economies, to undertake travels with the help of common visas 
between the two islands.
- In January 2013, Ryanair planned to launch operations in North Africa including Libya. Canadian airline WestJet is 
expected to enter the transatlantic market with a new service to Ireland during 2014.
- Since 2008, the highest demand for car rentals was generally between July and September in Ireland. Due to 
oversupply, there was a decrease of 13.87% in the fleet size in 2012.
- Package holidays are preferred by consumers as travel agents often cut prices by up to half. Low prices, coupled 
with the security and convenience of a package holiday, are drawing in customers.
Scope
- Historical values for the Irish tourism sector for 2008-2012, along with forecast figures for 2013-2017
- Comprehensive analysis of travel and tourism demand factors, with values for both the 2008-2012 review period 
and the 2013-2017 forecast period
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Ireland to 2017
- Detailed analysis and forecast of domestic, inbound and outbound tourist flows in Ireland.
- Comprehensive analysis of the trends in the airline, hotel, car rental and travel intermediaries industries, with 
values for both the 2008-2012 review period and the 2013-2017 forecast period
Key Topics Covered
1 Executive Summary
2 Market Overview
3 Tourism Flows
4 Airlines
5 Hotels
6 Car Rental
7 Travel Intermediaries
8 Tourism Board Profile
9 Airport Profiles
10 Company Profiles - Airlines
11 Company Profiles - Hotels
12 Company Profiles - Car Rental
13 Company Profiles - Travel Intermediaries
14 Market Data Analysis
15 Appendix
Companies Mentioned
Airlines
•
Aer Arann
•
Aer Lingus
•
Air Contractors (Ireland)
•
CityJet
•
Ryanair
Hotels
•
Ashford Castle Hotel
•
Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa Ireland
•
Adare Manor Hotel & Golf Resort
•
Westgrove Hotel and Conference Centre
•
Dromoland Castle & Country Estate
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Ireland to 2017
Car Rental
•
Budget Car Rental
•
Thrifty Car and Van Rental
•
Europcar
•
Hertz Rent a Car
•
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
Travel Intermediaries
•
Irish Welcome Tours
•
Eirebus
•
Into Ireland Travel
•
Irish Tourism
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/cn7ltk/travel_and
About Research and Markets
Research and Markets is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We 
provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products.
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 24, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Hungary to 2017
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Hungary to 2017
Business Wire
January 23, 2014 Thursday 11:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 431 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/9zhnd2/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Travel and Tourism in Hungary to 2017" report to their offering.
The Hungarian travel and tourism sector suffered due to the financial crisis which engulfed the country in 2009. 
Although the sector recovered in 2010-2011, the country entered another recessionary phase in 2012. However, 
the government and tourism promotion agencies have made continuous efforts to increase tourism activity.
Key Highlights
- Hungary's tourism sector is driven by international arrivals, with inbound tourism expenditure standing at HUF1.2 
trillion (US$5.2 billion) in 2012, compared with HUF868.2 billion (US$3.9 billion) from domestic travel.
- Health and wellness tourism holds an important place in the Hungarian tourism sector. Of the total international 
arrivals to Hungary in 2012, 13.2% visited for health reasons.
- The number of domestic trips declined from 18.1 million in 2008 to 14.8 million in 2009, due to the financial crisis. 
Domestic tourist volumes rebounded in the following two years, reaching 15.6 million in 2011, but as the country 
slipped into recession again in 2012, the number of domestic trips declined to 14.4 million.
- India has been recognized as a key emerging market by the Hungarian National Tourist Office (HNTO).
Key Topics Covered
1 Executive Summary
2 Travel and Tourism Sector In Context
3 Country Fact Sheet
4 Tourism Flows
5 Airlines
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Hungary to 2017
6 Hotels
7 Car Rental
8 Travel Intermediaries
9 Tourism Board Profile
10 Airport Profiles
11 Company Profiles - Airlines
12 Company Profiles - Hotels
13 Company Profiles - Car Rental
14 Company Profiles - Travel Intermediaries
15 Market Data Analysis
16 Appendix
Companies Mentioned
Airlines
•
Farnair
•
Lufthansa
•
Ryanair
•
Wizz Air
Hotels
•
Accor Hotels
•
Danubius Hotel and Spa
•
Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts Hungary
•
Hotel Palazzo Zichy
•
Kempinski Hotel Budapest
Car Rental
•
Bér-Elek KFT
•
Europcar
•
Fox Autorent
•
Hertz Rent a Car
•
Sixt Rent a Car
Travel Intermediaries
•
Multigo Touroperator
•
Best of Hungary Tours
•
Fehérvár Travel
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Hungary to 2017
•
Budatours
•
Privilege Tours
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/9zhnd2/travel_and
About Research and Markets
Research and Markets is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We 
provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products.
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 24, 2014
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Slovakia to 2017
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Slovakia to 2017
Business Wire
January 2, 2014 Thursday 1:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers
Length: 631 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/gk9mq7/travel_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Travel and Tourism in Slovakia to 2017" report to their offering.
During the review period (2008-2012), tourist volumes in Slovakia increased, driven primarily by government 
initiatives to promote tourism. The country's inbound tourist volumes increased by 4.8% in 2012 and are expected 
to record growth over the forecast period (2013-2017) at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 2.20%. The 
level of inbound tourism is expected to reach 1.7 million visits in 2017. However, government expenditure on 
tourism is relatively low, and accounted for only 2.3% of the nation's total GDP in 2012, valuing US$2.2 billion.
Key Highlights
- The Slovenská agentúra pre cestovný ruch (SACR) promotes Slovakia domestically through media campaigns, 
promotional banners on websites and newspaper advertisements, to highlight the country's leading tourist 
attractions. The cycle of Slovakia's media campaigns generally runs from before the beginning of the summer and 
winter months to take advantage of traditional holiday seasons. The government is also promoting business 
tourism, as this provides a lucrative revenue source.
- The Czech Republic has traditionally been the leading source country for inbound tourists to Slovakia, accounting 
for 40% of the total international arrivals in 2012.
- According to the Slovak Statistics Office (SU), the most popular destination in 2012 was Croatia, with 116,784 
trips, followed by Turkey with 90,295 and Bulgaria with 56,790.
- Slovakia's airline market is expected to see a growth in the LCC segment with Ryanair's expansion. Including 
Norwegian Air Shuttle, LCCs account for 80% of the nation's seat capacity. The country's aviation market will record 
growth over the forecast period. Ryanair has indicated its aim to establish a base at Bratislava Ivanka Airport.
- The number of hotel establishments in Slovakia increased during the review period, a trend which is anticipated to 
continue over the forecast period.
- Car rentals in Slovakia are directly dependent on the performance of airlines.
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Slovakia to 2017
- Four travel agencies, Tip Tour, A-Tour, Best Choice and Medina Tours, went bankrupt in 2013. Conflict in Arab 
nations and weak economic growth were among the leading causes. Many agencies also offer similar products in a 
small market. Agencies with sufficient financial reserves and those which did not focus on North Africa continued to 
grow and did not suffer from the crisis.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Executive Summary
2 Market Overview
3 Tourism Flows
4 Airlines
5 Hotels
6 Car Rental
7 Travel Intermediaries
8 Tourism Board Profile
9 Airport Profiles
10 Company Profiles - Airlines
11 Company Profiles - Hotels
12 Company Profiles - Car Rental
13 Company Profiles - Travel Intermediaries
14 Market Data Analysis
15 Appendix
Companies Mentioned
•
Arcadia Hotel Slovakia
•
Avis Rent a Car Slovakia
•
Discover Slovakia Tours
•
Enjoy Slovakia DMC
•
Europcar Slovakia
•
Go2Sky
•
Hertz Rent a Car Slovakia
•
Hotel Amade Château
•
Kempinski Hotels Slovakia
•
Marrol's Boutique Hotel Bratislava
•
Opera Jet
•
RAI-Internacional
•
Sayegh Aviation Europe
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Slovakia to 2017
•
Sixt Rent a Car Slovakia
•
Slovak Tours
•
Sunway HT, Spol.
•
Travel Service Slovakia
•
TravelSlovakia.sk
•
Tulip House Boutique Hotel Slovakia
•
VIP Wings
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/gk9mq7/travel_and
About Research and Markets
Research and Markets is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We 
provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products.
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager.
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 3, 2014
End of Document
US Low-Cost Airline Revenue on Top Network Carriers Nearly Cut Unit Costs to Low-Cost Carrier Level
US Low-Cost Airline Revenue on Top; Network Carriers Nearly Cut Unit 
Costs to Low-Cost Carrier Level
Business Wire
November 7, 2013 Thursday 9:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Transportation Writers
Length: 513 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
This year, for the first time ever, U.S. low-cost airline unit revenue on domestic routes exceeded that of network 
carriers. Oliver Wyman's annual Airline Economic Analysis report, released today at the Raymond James Global 
Transportation Conference, highlighted this and other important shifts taking place in the global airline market.
While low cost carriers fly shorter routes, inherently generating higher unit revenue, this unprecedented spike in 
domestic revenue per available seat mile among U.S. low-cost carriers is still evidence of a major change.
"With both network and low-cost carriers focused on generating higher revenue, the result may be higher 
profitability in the short term," said Oliver Wyman Partner Bob Hazel. "However, this environment could also 
facilitate the emergence of a new group of lower fare airlines."
Other highlights from Oliver Wyman's 2013 report include:
•
Asia strengthening its position as the world's largest airline market, surpassing Europe and the U.S. Just a 
few years ago, the U.S. was still No. 1, Europe second, and Asia third. The shift in the airline market shows 
why manufacturers are focusing on Asia.
•
A narrowed cost gap between U.S. network airlines and low cost airlines during the past five years from 34 
percent to less than 4 percent. Even so, ultra-low-cost airlines modelled after Europe's Ryanair operate at 
costs that are a step below even traditional low-cost carriers and are a growing challenge to both network 
and low-cost carriers.
•
Increasing pressure from ultra-low-cost carriers. Some ultra-low-cost airlines unbundle their products to the 
maximum extent and charge low base fares and high ancillary fees. Added together, these low fares and 
high fees can equal the higher fares and lower ancillary fees at traditional airlines. Is this situation 
sustainable, or will traditional airlines find ways to regain their historic revenue premium?
About the Airline Economic Analysis
Oliver Wyman's Airline Economic Analysis report is in its fifth generation. The 45-page report covers a range of 
industry analyses including: CASM/RASM comparisons, stage-length-adjusted and long-term trends, fuel prices, 
break-even load factors, ancillary revenues, and fleet composition and global capacity growth by region.
US Low-Cost Airline Revenue on Top Network Carriers Nearly Cut Unit Costs to Low-Cost Carrier Level
About Oliver Wyman
Oliver Wyman is a global leader in management consulting. With offices in 50+ cities across 25 countries, Oliver 
Wyman combines deep industry knowledge with specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, 
and organization transformation. The firm's 3,000 professionals help clients improve their operations and risk 
profiles and accelerate their organizational performance to seize the most attractive opportunities. Oliver Wyman is 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies [NYSE:MMC]. For more information, visit 
www.oliverwyman.com . Follow Oliver Wyman on Twitter @OliverWyman.
Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available: http://www.businesswire.com/multimedia/home/20131107006834/en/
CONTACT: Oliver Wyman
Birgit Andersen, + 1 214-758-1806
birgit.andersen@oliverwyman.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 8, 2013
End of Document
Gambia Bird Airlines Selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Gambia Bird Airlines Selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
October 9, 2013 Wednesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Technology Writers
Length: 363 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems (RMS) is excited to announce that it has been selected to provide Gambia Bird 
Airlines with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. Gambia Bird Airlines has 
chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it identify sales 
opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRM software allows airlines to closely control pricing and 
analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are very excited to announce Gambia Bird as our first carrier selecting airRM in the African continent," said 
Adrian Flores, Vice President Sales and Support, EMEA. "Gambia Bird is a young airline providing scheduled flights 
across West Africa. Implementing airRM at an early stage in their development will allow Gambia Bird to easily 
access critical management information to assist in making various revenue-enhancing decisions. Gambia Bird 
users will have a robust Revenue Management tool, providing numerous inventory control capabilities alongside our 
forecasting and autopilot options, whilst also benefiting from airRM's advanced PNR-level reporting tool in one 
single suite. We look forward to implementing airRM at Gambia Bird and providing them with the leading-edge 
Revenue Management tool."
More information about Gambia Bird Airlines can be found at www.gambiabird.com .
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. has been developing airline revenue management systems in cooperation 
with some of the most successful airlines in the world today. Their most popular product, airRM, is used by over 30 
airlines, including Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia) and JetStar (Australia). airRMexpress, their newest offering, 
brings affordable forecasting and optimization technology to the hundreds of small airlines around the world. 
Together,airRMandairRMexpresshelp airlines realize higher revenues and increased staff productivity. RMS, 
founded in 1996, is a privately held company headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
More information aboutairRMand RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Gambia Bird Airlines Selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Load-Date: October 10, 2013
End of Document
Research and Markets: Transport & Logistics (European) - Analysis of The Top 500 Companies Including A.P. 
Moller - Maersk A/S , Ryanair Holdings Public Limited ....
Research and Markets: Transport & Logistics (European) - Analysis of The 
Top 500 Companies Including A.P. Moller - Maersk A/S, Ryanair Holdings 
Public Limited Company, Lufthansa Cargo Aktiengesellschaft, And Others
Business Wire
October 2, 2013 Wednesday 9:49 AM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 342 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/rrw4fd/transport_and ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Transport & Logistics (European)" report to their offering.
This report provides a detailed overview of the Transport & Logistics (European) market and delivers a 
comprehensive individual analysis on the top 500 companies. It includes a wealth of information on the financial 
trends over the past four years.
A quick glance at this Transport & Logistics (European) report will tell you that 159 companies have a declining 
Plimsoll financial rating, while 75 have shown good sales growth.
Key Topics Covered
Each of the largest 500 companies is meticulously scrutinised in a one-page individual assessment and is analysed 
using the most up-to-date and current financial data.
Every business is examined on the following features:
- The Plimsoll Chart: A graphical assessment of a company's financial performance
- An independent financial valuation
- Four year assessment of the profit/loss and balance sheet
- A written summary highlighting key performance issues
Subsequently, you will receive a thorough market analysis highlighting the latest changes in the Transport & 
Logistics (European) market.
Research and Markets: Transport & Logistics (European) - Analysis of The Top 500 Companies Including A.P. 
Moller - Maersk A/S , Ryanair Holdings Public Limited ....
This section includes:
- Best Trading Partners
- Sales Growth Analysis
- Profit Analysis
- Market Size
- Rankings
Reasons To Buy
- See the market leaders
- Identify companies heading for failure
- Seek out the most attractive acquisition
- Analyse industry trends
- Benchmark their own financial performance
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/rrw4fd/transport_and
About Research and Markets
Research and Markets is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We 
provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new 
products and the latest trends.
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Transport and Shipping
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 3, 2013
End of Document
Revenue Management Systems Commences 2013 airRM User Conference
Revenue Management Systems Commences 2013 airRM User Conference
Business Wire
September 10, 2013 Tuesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Technology Editors
Length: 311 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
The 2013 airRM User Conference, presented by Revenue Management Systems ("RMS"), officially opened today 
in Seattle, Washington, U.S.A. The conference brings togetherairRMusers from around the world and provides 
them with an opportunity to develop personal relationships with RMS staff and otherairRMusers. During the 
conference, attendees will gain in-depth knowledge about the features, functions, and newest developments 
inairRMand have the ability to provide input with regard to the direction and priority of futureairRMenhancements. 
The 2013airRMUser Conference runs for 3 days from Tuesday, September 10, through Thursday, September 12, 
2012.
"As we welcome airRM customers from all over the world, we are excited to demonstrate some of the many new 
features we've added over the last year," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "We're proud to have incorporated 
Ancillary Revenues into airRM and are excited to present the latest additions to forecast methodologies (now over 
30) and enhancements to the forecasting analysis tools."
About Revenue Management Systems
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. has been developing airline revenue management systems in cooperation 
with some of the most successful airlines in the world today. Their most popular product, airRM, is used by nearly 
40 airlines, including Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia) and JetStar (Australia). airRMexpress, their newest 
offering, brings affordable forecasting and optimization technology to the hundreds of small airlines around the 
world. Together,airRMandairRMexpresshelp airlines realize higher revenues and increased staff productivity. RMS, 
founded in 1996, is a privately held company headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
More information aboutairRM,airRMexpressand RMS can be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Revenue Management Systems Commences 2013 airRM User Conference
Load-Date: September 11, 2013
End of Document
CityJet Ltd. Selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
CityJet Ltd. Selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
August 6, 2013 Tuesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 470 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is pleased to announce that CityJet Ltd. (CityJet) has selected       
     airRM to manage its seat inventory. WithairRM, CityJet staff will have access to a huge array of tools and data 
enabling them to increase the revenue production of their flight schedule.
"As a subsidiary of one of the largest airlines in the world, CityJet's decision to choose airRM shows the strength 
and flexibility of our system to fit various business models," said Michael Peters, RMS Director of Sales and 
Support EMEA. "We look forward to working with CityJet and are excited to add them to our growing list of 
customers."
"After a thorough selection process we are confident airRM is an excellent revenue management system that will 
allow us to significantly improve our revenue management capabilities within the coming years," says Simon 
Spinks, CCO at CityJet. "Additionally, we have been very happy with the commitment of the RMS team who have 
proven their dedication and expertise in implementing this new system for CityJet."
About CityJet
CityJet is renowned for providing convenient, hassle-free travel, combined with award-winning service, to popular 
destinations throughout the UK and Europe. Its extensive network offers a multitude of choices for both business 
and leisure travellers, with a schedule built around the needs of passengers. As the largest carrier operating out of 
London City Airport, CityJet offers over 480 flights a week from this conveniently-located airport to 21 popular 
destinations in the UK, Ireland and mainland Europe.
Fares include all taxes and charges, and our customers enjoy a choice of online, mobile or airport check-in, 
advance seat assignment (except CitySaver fares), free checked baggage including golf bags (except CitySaver 
fares), and complimentary beverages and light meals on board.
CityJet is a wholly owned subsidiary of the AIR FRANCE KLM Group.
More information about CityJet can be found at www.cityjet.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
CityJet Ltd. Selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. has been developing airline revenue management systems in cooperation 
with some of the most successful airlines in the world today. Their most popular product, airRM, is used by over 30 
airlines including Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia) and JetStar (Australia). airRMexpress, their newest offering, 
brings affordable forecasting and optimization technology to the hundreds of small airlines around the world. 
Together,airRMandairRMexpresshelp airlines realize higher revenues and increased staff productivity. RMS, 
founded in 1996, is a privately held company headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
More information aboutairRM, airRMexpressand RMS can be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 7, 2013
End of Document
Skywork Airlines Implements airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Skywork Airlines Implements airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
July 31, 2013 Wednesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 418 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is pleased to announce that Skywork Airlines (Skywork) has 
selectedairRMto manage its seat inventory. WithairRM, Skywork staff will have access to a huge array of tools and 
data enabling them to increase the revenue production of their flight schedule.
"The agreement between RMS and Skywork Airlines progressed very smoothly, allowing for a fast system 
implementation and enabling Skywork to quickly launch our revenue management and reporting system, airRM. We 
are very pleased to announce our relationship with Skywork. Their mix of European business and leisure services 
connecting many European destinations through the Swiss city of Bern is very impressive," said Adrian Flores, 
RMS VP Sales and Support EMEA.
"We decided very quickly that airRM was the right revenue management system for the Skywork Airlines business 
model. We were very impressed both with airRM's extensive functionality and the knowledge of the RMS support 
team, which made implementation of the system very smooth. We were also impressed with the detailed reporting 
suite within airRM which instantly enabled us to create new detailed management information for the business. 
airRM has also allowed us to analyze detailed flight trends and overall sales performance, whilst the AU 
management tools have more than delivered on our requirements to make quick and educated pricing decisions on 
our flights. RMS staff have been very responsive to our RM needs which has been very well received within the 
organization," said a Skywork press relations officer.
About Skywork
More information about Skywork Airlines can be found at www.flyskywork.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. has been developing airline revenue management systems in cooperation 
with some of the most successful airlines in the world today. Their most popular product, airRM, is used by over 30 
airlines including Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia) and JetStar (Australia). airRMexpress, their newest offering, 
brings affordable forecasting and optimization technology to the hundreds of small airlines around the world. 
Together,airRMandairRMexpresshelp airlines realize higher revenues and increased staff productivity. RMS, 
founded in 1996, is a privately held company headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
Skywork Airlines Implements airRM as Its Revenue Management System
More information aboutairRM, airRMexpressand RMS can be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 1, 2013
End of Document
airRM Revenue Management System Now Integrates Ancillary Revenue Data
airRM Revenue Management System Now Integrates Ancillary Revenue Data
Business Wire
July 23, 2013 Tuesday 12:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 324 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems (RMS) is excited to announce ancillary data integration with its flagship revenue 
management system, airRM.
According to a recent industry report , ancillary revenues continue to rise and now account for more than 20% of 
total revenue for many airlines around the world. As ancillaries become an increasingly larger portion of sales, 
airlines need tools that enable them to better understand, plan for and manage these critical revenues. With the 
integration of ancillary revenue data, airRM's robust suite of inventory management and reporting tools now gives 
airlines more insight into ancillary's impact on their flight performance.
"For the entire history of our company we have prided ourselves on being revenue management innovators," said 
Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "Incorporating ancillary revenue data into airRM is another example of how we are 
continually enhancing our system and ensuring it is the most relevant and capable RM offering in the world."
Airlines who want to learn more about ancillary data in airRM can contact the company at 
sales@revenuemanagement.com
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. has been developing airline revenue management systems in cooperation 
with some of the most successful airlines in the world today. Their most popular product, airRM, is used by over 30 
airlines including Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia) and JetStar (Australia). airRMexpress, their newest offering, 
brings affordable forecasting and optimization technology to the hundreds of small airlines around the world. 
Together, airRM and airRMexpress help airlines realize higher revenues and increased staff productivity. RMS, 
founded in 1996, is a privately held company headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
More information aboutairRM, airRMexpressand RMS can be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
airRM Revenue Management System Now Integrates Ancillary Revenue Data
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 24, 2013
End of Document
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc: 2012-2013 - Transport and Logistics Company Profile, SWOT 
and Financial Report
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc: 2012-2013 - Transport and 
Logistics Company Profile, SWOT and Financial Report
Business Wire
January 9, 2013 Wednesday 2:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 417 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/zsrww8/ryanair_holdings ) has announced 
the addition of iCD Research's new company profile "Ryanair Holdings plc: Transport and Logistics Company 
Profile, SWOT and Financial Report" to their offering.
Synopsis
ICD Research's "Ryanair Holdings plc: Transport and Logistics - Company Profile and SWOT Report" contains in 
depth information and data about the company and its operations. The profile contains a company overview, key 
facts, major products and services, swot analysis, business description, and company history.
Summary
This report is a crucial resource for industry executives and anyone looking to access key information about 
"Ryanair Holdings plc"
The report utilizes a wide range of primary and secondary sources, which are analyzed and presented in a 
consistent and easily accessible format. ICD Research strictly follows a standardized research methodology to 
ensure high levels of data quality and these characteristics guarantee a unique report.
Scope
- Examines and identifies key information and issues about "Ryanair Holdings plc" for business intelligence 
requirements.
- Studies and presents the company's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities (growth potential) and threats 
(competition). Strategic and operational business information is objectively reported.
- Provides data on company financial performance.
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc: 2012-2013 - Transport and Logistics Company Profile, SWOT 
and Financial Report
- The profile also contains information on business operations, company history, major products and services, key 
employees, locations and subsidiaries.
Key Highlights
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair) is an Ireland based low-fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-
to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, and Morocco. It operates with 45 bases 
and flying in over 1,300 low fare routes across 27 countries, connecting 160 destinations. Ryanair's fleet consists of 
272 Boeing 737-800 aircraft. It also operates about 1,550 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 160 airports 
throughout Europe and Morocco. It also offers a host of related services including car rental services, hostels, and 
co-branded credit cards, among others. Ryanair is headquartered in Dublin, Ireland.
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/zsrww8/ryanair_holdings
Source: iCD Research
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager.
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Transport and Shipping
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 10, 2013
End of Document
Research and Markets: Poland Infrastructure Report Q1 2013: Poland 's Road Building Programme, Running 
From 2007 to 2015, Is Expected To Draw US$60bn of Investm....
Research and Markets: Poland Infrastructure Report Q1 2013: Poland's Road 
Building Programme, Running From 2007 to 2015, Is Expected To Draw 
US$60bn of Investment into the Sector
Business Wire
January 3, 2013 Thursday 3:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 322 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/jkrl7r/poland ) has announced the addition 
of the            "Poland Infrastructure Report Q1 2013" report to their offering.
The construction sector growth fell from 9.6% y-o-y in Q1 2012, to only 1.4% in Q2. Additionally, a large number of 
planned projects are being delayed, altered or completely terminated, which has dampening our previously 
optimistic outlook for the sector. Two large power projects: PGE's 1.8GW Opole coal-fired power plant and Energa's 
1GW Ostroleka coal power plant, have been delayed and suspended respectively, which will together see contracts 
worth US$5.7bn removed from the immediate project pipeline.
The following projects are in the pipeline:
- Road building programme: Poland's road building programme, running from 2007 to 2015, is expected to draw 
US$60bn of investment into the sector. The much sought-after A1 motorway road project seems to be picking up 
momentum, after Polish authorities, in July 2012, were reportedly inviting design and construction tenders for eight 
sections of a 180km stretch of the A1 highway.
- Airport Investments: The value of the sub-sector more than doubled between 2009 and 2011, to PLN365mn 
(US$123mn). BMI estimates that projects worth more than US$2bn are under way in the airport sub-segment and 
these will together result in annual average real growth of 10% between 2013 and 2017. Adding to the optimism, 
Irish budget carrier Ryanair, in September 2012, revealed plans to launch flights from the new Lublin Airport, which 
is currently being transformed from a military airstrip into a commercial airport.
Companies Mentioned:
Budimex
Mostostal Warszawa
Research and Markets: Poland Infrastructure Report Q1 2013: Poland 's Road Building Programme, Running 
From 2007 to 2015, Is Expected To Draw US$60bn of Investm....
Skanska Poland
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/jkrl7r/poland
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Construction
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 4, 2013
End of Document
Treasury Management System from Salmon Software Selected by NET4GAS in Czech Republic "Huge 
interest" in Salmon Software TMS following opening of the CEE office
Treasury Management System from Salmon Software Selected by NET4GAS 
in Czech Republic; "Huge interest" in Salmon Software TMS following 
opening of the CEE office
Business Wire
January 3, 2013 Thursday 10:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2013 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Software Writers
Length: 394 words
Dateline: LONDON & DUBLIN 
Body
Treasury Management System (TMS) specialist Salmon Software ( www.salmonsoftware.ie ) has signed its first 
Czech Republic customer, NET4GAS. This follows the opening of Salmon Software's a new CEE (Central & 
Eastern Europe) office in Olomouc, Moravia last year.
NET4GAS ( www.net4gaz.cz ) is an exclusive gas Transmission System Operator (TSO) licence holder that 
transports natural gas in the Czech Republic using a pipeline network of over 3,600 kilometres. NET4GAS, which 
employs over 500 people, transports 40 billion m3 of natural gas annually (of which roughly 25 % is for domestic 
consumption).
"We needed a cost effective and easy to use treasury management system to manage our foreign exchange, 
money market, treasury and banking transactions," commented Mrs Jana Brejlová, Manager Finance at NET4GAS. 
"We celebrated our 40th anniversary last year and Salmon has been in the business for almost 30 years, so we 
were buying a solution with a proven track record which has been implemented by leading international companies 
like Airbus, Ryanair and others."
"There has been huge European interest in our Treasury Management System solutions since we formally opened 
in Central and Eastern Europe," commented John Byrne, CEO, Salmon Software, which is headquartered in Dublin, 
Ireland. "Moravia is an ideal base right in the heart of Europe to serve what we see as a growing market for our 
automated treasury solutions for corporate treasurers and finance directors."
He added, "We are one of the last remaining independent treasury management system companies in the world 
and we are committed to delivering what is best for customers like NET4GAS, at the most cost effective price within 
a short timeframe."
Salmon Software's ( http://www.salmonsoftware.ie/ ) TMS flagship product, Salmon Treasurer manages foreign 
exchange, money market, treasury and banking transactions. It maintains and monitors in real-time a company's 
Treasury Management System from Salmon Software Selected by NET4GAS in Czech Republic "Huge 
interest" in Salmon Software TMS following opening of the CEE office
positions, accounts, cashbooks and cash flow forecasts. The system is designed to be easy to use and provides 
greater control via transaction tracking.
For treasuries with lower volumes, Salmon Software recently launched T-Series - a suite of cloud computing or 
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Treasury Management System products.
ends
CONTACT: Press queries:
Naomi McElroy
Simpson Financial & Technology PR T: + 353 1 260 5300
naomi@simpsonftpr.ie
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 4, 2013
End of Document
Research and Markets: Lufthansa : The SCORE Program - Change for Success?
Research and Markets: Lufthansa: The SCORE Program - Change for 
Success?
Business Wire
December 10, 2012 Monday 12:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Aviation Writers
Length: 390 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/65w4gj/lufthansa_the ) has announced the 
addition of the            "Lufthansa: The SCORE program - change for success?" report to their offering.
Lufthansa's premium position in the European aviation industry is under threat. As well as fuel prices, 
environmental regulation threaten to disadvantage European carriers compared to international rivals. A surge in 
popularity for budget airlines and Gulf carriers has prompted Lufthansa to begin the SCORE program, aimed at 
saving 1.5bn in costs by 2014 via rationalization and efficiency.
Features and Benefits:
- MarketLine Case Studies describe topics such as innovative products, business models, and significant company 
acquisitions.
- Fact-based and presented in an accessible style, they explain the rationale of commercial decisions and illustrate 
wider market and economic trends.
Highlights:
- Lufthansa is the largest aviation company in terms of revenue. Other proxies, such as passenger numbers, also 
suggest Lufthansa enjoys a leading position, if not outright first place.
- The company's revenues grew 8.6% in 2011 to reach 28.7bn ($39.9bn).
- Staff costs are a significant problem for Lufthansa, accounting for 22% of their expenditure in 2011. In comparison, 
Ryanair staff costs were 11% and Emirates' costs were 13.2% of their total costs.
Your Key Questions Answered:
- Why has Lufthansa embarked on this program?
Research and Markets: Lufthansa : The SCORE Program - Change for Success?
- How successful will the program be?
Key Topics Covered:
ANALYSIS
- Lufthansa operates in an increasingly difficult market
- Lufthansa is Europe's largest airliner
- The airline faces mounting difficulties
- The SCORE program
- 2011 showed some promise despite worsening conditions
- Brands were restructured
- Synergies are crucial for the SCORE program
- Costs are to be driven down
- Revenue generation is also being targeted
- Change for success?
- Union hostility
- SCORE estimates do not account for restructuring costs
- Interim results presented challenges
- The aviation industry is not immune from the global slowdown
CONCLUSIONS
- A sensible strategy in a harsh environment
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/65w4gj/lufthansa_the
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager.
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Aviation
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 11, 2012
End of Document
Revenue Management Systems Unveils airRMexpress
Revenue Management Systems Unveils airRMexpress
Business Wire
October 9, 2012 Tuesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 364 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems (RMS) announces today that it is launching airRMexpress, a new cloud-based 
airline revenue management solution designed specifically for small airlines.
With airRMexpress , RMS brings the advantages of powerful forecasting and optimization capabilities to a whole 
segment of the airline industry that was previously underserved. And RMS delivers it at a price that is affordable. In 
addition to forecasting and optimization, airRMexpress also features many other tools, such as an executive 
dashboard, flight analysis screens, a report builder and the popular Business Rules manager.
"There are literally hundreds of small airlines around the world today who are either spending too much time making 
manual inventory adjustments or are using solutions that don't have all the features they need," said Scott Schade, 
CEO of RMS. "We have designed airRMexpress for these airlines so they can quickly and efficiently optimize their 
seat inventory, thereby significantly improving their bottom line."
As a cloud-based solution, airRMexpress can be rapidly deployed. Accessing the system via the internet also saves 
airlines from having to buy expensive server hardware.
Airlines interested in learning more should contact one of RMS' global sales offices:
North and South America - americas@revenuemanagement.com
Europe, Middle East and Africa - emea@revenuemanagement.com
Asia and Pacific - apac@revenuemanagement.com
About RMS
RMS has been developing airline revenue management systems in cooperation with some of the most successful 
airlines in the world today. Their most popular product, airRM, is used by over 30 airlines including Westjet 
(Canada), AirAsia (Malaysia) and Ryanair (Ireland). airRMexpress, their newest offering, brings affordable 
forecasting and optimization technology to hundreds of small airlines around the world. Together, airRM and 
airRMexpress help airlines realize higher revenues and increased staff productivity. RMS, founded in 1996, is a 
privately held company headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA). More information can be found at 
www.revenuemanagement.com .
Revenue Management Systems Unveils airRMexpress
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 10, 2012
End of Document
Skywest Airlines of Australia Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
Skywest Airlines of Australia Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management 
System
Business Wire
September 17, 2012 Monday 9:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers; Travel Writers; Transportation Writers
Length: 460 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc           . (RMS) is pleased to announce that Skywest Airlines Pty Ltd 
("Skywest") has begun using            airRM to manage its seat inventory. WithairRM, Skywest staff have access to a 
huge array of tools and data, enabling them to increase their airline's revenues.
"airRM's powerful analytics and reporting tools give Skywest speed and qualitative information that we require in a 
dynamic market place where optimal revenue generation is paramount to the business. Combined with detail 
management reporting tools, airRM provides the level of information needed in today's fast-paced environment," 
said Rian Hill, Manager, Revenue and Network Strategy."
"Having just recently concluded the agreement to provide Skywest with our revenue management system, we are 
pleased to demonstrate another value of airRM: rapid deployment," said Eric Nordling, RMS COO. "We're always 
eager for our customers to tap the revenue enhancement capabilities of airRM as soon as possible."
About Skywest
Skywest Airlines has been in operation forclose to50 years, currently flying to 16 destinations. Skywest operates 
flights across regional Western Australia as well as Darwin, Melbourne and Internationally to Denpasar, Bali. With a 
strong presence in the corporate charter, 'Fly in Fly Out' Mining Market and Regular Passenger Transit, Skywest 
carries over 800,000 passengers annually, servicing business travelers, tourists and regional communities.
The fleet consists of Fokker 50 turboprops and Fokker 100 jets with an Airbus A320 jet bringing Skywest's core fleet 
to 20 aircraft. In addition, Skywest provides and manages ATR turboprop aircraft for Virgin Australia.
Skywest is a member of Velocity Rewards, the award-winning customer loyalty program of Virgin Australia, allowing 
passengers to earn Velocity Points on Skywest's domestic network.
More information about Skywest may be found at www.skywest.com.au .
About RMS and airRM
Skywest Airlines of Australia Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
RMS is a software company that developedairRM in conjunction with many of the world's most successful airlines. 
Highly capable and reasonably priced, airRM represents the best value airline revenue management system on the 
market. In addition to forecasting, optimization and other innovative inventory management tools,airRMprovides 
users with extensive revenue reporting and fare filling capabilities. Today, more than 30 airlines around the world, 
including AirAsia (Malaysia), Westjet (Canada) and Ryanair (Ireland), realize higher revenues and increased staff 
productivity by utilizingairRM. Founded in 1996, Revenue Management Systems is headquartered in Seattle, 
Washington (USA). More information about airRM and RMS may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 18, 2012
End of Document
Skywest Airlines of Australia selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Skywest Airlines of Australia selects airRM as its Revenue Management 
System
Business Wire
September 5, 2012 Wednesday 12:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 253 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS") is pleased to announce that Skywest Airlines Pty Ltd ("Skywest") has 
selectedthe            airRM revenue management system to manage its seat inventory. WithairRM, Skywest staff will 
have access to a huge array of tools and data enabling them to increase the revenue production of their flight 
schedule.
"It is our pleasure to welcome Skywest to the growing list of airRM customers," said Eric Nordling, RMS COO. 
"Developed with input from some of the world's most successful airlines, airRM will be a powerful lever for the 
continued growth of Skywest."
About Skywest
More information about Skywest may be found at www.skywest.com.au .
About RMS and airRM
RMS is a software company that developedairRM in conjunction with many of the world's most successful airlines. 
Highly capable and reasonably priced, airRM represents the best value airline revenue management system on the 
market. In addition to forecasting, optimization and other innovative inventory management tools,airRMprovides 
users with extensive revenue reporting and fare filling capabilities. Today, more than 30 airlines around the world, 
including AirAsia (Malaysia), Westjet (Canada) and Ryanair (Ireland), realize higher revenues and increased staff 
productivity by utilizingairRM. Founded in 1996, Revenue Management Systems is headquartered in Seattle, 
Washington (USA). More information about airRM and RMS may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Skywest Airlines of Australia selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Load-Date: September 6, 2012
End of Document
SunExpress Deutschland GmbH Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
SunExpress Deutschland GmbH Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management 
System
Business Wire
August 15, 2012 Wednesday 12:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Editors
Length: 240 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc . (RMS) is pleased to announce that SunExpress Deutschland GmbH 
(SunExpress) has selected            airRM to manage its seat inventory. With airRM, SunExpress staff can access a 
huge array of data, enabling them to make revenue-enhancing decisions.
"We are excited to announce Germany's SunExpress as the latest airline to choose airRM as its revenue 
management solution," said Adrian Flores, RMS Vice President of Sales and Support - EMEA. "We look forward to 
working with SunExpress and providing them with the leading edge tools and world-class support that have come to 
define airRM and Revenue Management Systems."
About SunExpress
More information about SunExpress may be found at www.sunexpress.com .
About RMS and airRM
RMS is a software company that developed airRM, an innovative revenue management application for the airline 
industry. In addition to traditional forecasting and optimization, airRM provides users with extensive revenue 
reporting and fare filing capabilities. Today, more than 30 airlines around the world, including AirAsia (Malaysia), 
Westjet (Canada) and Ryanair (Ireland), realize higher revenues and increased staff productivity by utilizing airRM. 
Founded in 1996, Revenue Management Systems is a privately held company headquartered in Seattle, 
Washington (USA). More information can be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 16, 2012
SunExpress Deutschland GmbH Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
End of Document
Research and Markets: Report Called ' Ryanair : The World's Leading Low-Cost Airline' Contains Compelling 
Information on this Market Leader
Research and Markets: Report Called 'Ryanair: The World's Leading Low-
Cost Airline' Contains Compelling Information on this Market Leader
Business Wire
July 9, 2012 Monday 4:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 379 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/9pfqrm/ryanair_the_world ) has announced 
the addition of the            "Ryanair: The World's Leading Low-Cost Airline" company profile to their offering.
Ryanair operates a low-fares scheduled passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, 
the UK, Continental Europe, and Morocco. The company offers more than 1,300 scheduled short-haul flights per 
day serving 155 locations. This case study looks at how Ryanair has risen to become the world's most popular 
airline for international travel.
Features and benefits
- MarketLine Case Studies describe topics such as innovative products, business models, and significant company 
acquisitions.
- Fact-based and presented in an accessible style, they explain the rationale of commercial decisions and illustrate 
wider market and economic trends.
Highlights
Ryanair has redefined the airline industry with its low-cost operating model. In order to keep costs to a minimum the 
airline uses small, regional airports and operates as a point-to-point carrier, thus avoiding the costs associated with 
a hub-and-spoke service.
The company's adoption of a low-cost operating model allows it to pursue a price-led offering. Ryanair advertises 
itself as "The low fares airline" and has a price promise under which it will pay double the difference if a customer 
finds the same flight cheaper elsewhere. The tradeoff for the low fares is a so-called "no-frills" service.
Although the company receives a great deal of negative publicity, this is not entirely warranted and Ryanair in fact 
tops several rankings that measure customer satisfaction. These include rankings for punctuality, environmental 
friendliness, lost bags, and the number of complaints received.
Research and Markets: Report Called ' Ryanair : The World's Leading Low-Cost Airline' Contains Compelling 
Information on this Market Leader
Your key questions answered
- How has Ryanair redefined the passenger airline industry?
- How has Ryanair grown to become the world's most popular passenger airline for international travel?
- How does Ryanair maintain a low operating cost base?
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/9pfqrm/ryanair_the_world
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager.
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Sector: Company Reports
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 10, 2012
End of Document
Scoot Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management Software
Scoot Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management Software
Business Wire
June 26, 2012 Tuesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 399 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. (RMS) is pleased to announce that Scoot, Asia's newest low-cost carrier, has 
begun using            airRM to manage its seat inventory. With airRM, Scoot staff can access a huge array of data, 
enabling them to make revenue-enhancing decisions.
"airRM is already delivering results. We have much greater visibility, and airRM's accurate analysis and optimization 
tools are raising efficiency while identifying opportunities to increase flight revenues," said Campbell Wilson, Scoot's 
CEO.
"All of us at Revenue Management Systems are thrilled to be a part of Scoot's exciting launch," said Eric Nordling, 
RMS COO. "We are positive travelers will love the value offered by Scoot, just as much as Scoot loves the value 
offered by airRM."
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. is a software company that developed airRM, an innovative revenue 
management application for the airline industry. In addition to traditional forecasting and optimization, airRM 
provides users with extensive revenue reporting and fare filing capabilities. Today, more than 30 airlines around the 
world, including AirAsia (Malaysia), Westjet (Canada) and Ryanair (Ireland), realize higher revenues and increased 
staff productivity by utilizing airRM. Founded in 1996, Revenue Management Systems is a privately held company 
headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA). More information can be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
About Scoot(TM)
Scoot(TM) operates medium and long haul no-frills flights between Singapore and the Australian cities of Sydney 
and Gold Coast, with Bangkok, Tianjin, Taipei and Tokyo commencing over the next few months. Operating a fleet 
of Boeing 777-200 aircraft, Scoot provides - in addition to fantastic value airfares - a safe, reliable and 
contemporary travel experience with a unique attitude - Scootitude(TM). Scoot is passionate about changing the 
way people travel long distance. Book your tickets at Flyscoot.com or call +65 3158 3388 (Singapore); +61 (0)2 
8520 1888 (Australia); 400 120 3055 (China), and +66 2105 5754 (Thailand). Our English Customer Service 
Support opens 24 hours, Monday to Sunday. Mandarin Customer Service Support opens 6am to 8pm (Singapore 
time), Monday to Sunday. Check us out on Facebook.com/FlyScoot and            Facebook.com/FlyScootAU .
Scoot Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management Software
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 27, 2012
End of Document
Revenue Management Systems Appoints Chief Operating Officer
Revenue Management Systems Appoints Chief Operating Officer
Business Wire
June 5, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 327 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. (RMS) today announced the appointment of Eric Nordling as its new Chief 
Operating Officer. Mr. Nordling will be responsible for sales and support services at the airline revenue 
management software development company.
Mr. Nordling brings 23 years of experience with a wide range of skills in airline revenue management, pricing and 
market planning. Over the course of his career, he developed a comprehensive perspective of revenue 
management having been a user, developer and buyer of systems. Mr. Nordling has held a variety of positions at 
United Airlines, MarkAir, Delta Air Lines, Atlantic Coast Airlines and independence air. He has an MBA from the 
Kellogg School of Management.
"We are excited about Eric joining the RMS team," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "Eric's diverse business 
background and wide ranging airline experience will be a valuable addition as we serve our growing list of 
customers."
About Revenue Management Systems and airRM
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. (RMS) is a software company that developed airRM, an innovative revenue 
management application for the airline industry. In addition to traditional forecasting and optimization, airRM has a 
wide array of inventory management tools, the ability to manage fare filings and extensive revenue reporting 
capabilities. Today, more than 30 airlines around the world, including Westjet (Canada), AirAsia (Malaysia) and 
Ryanair (Ireland), realize higher revenues and increased staff productivity by utilizing airRM. Beyond the compelling 
economic benefits, airRM users also enjoy quick implementations, frequent enhancements and an experienced 
team of dedicated support representatives.
RMS, founded in 1996, is a privately held company headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA). More information 
about RMS, airRM and its many airline customers can be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
Revenue Management Systems Appoints Chief Operating Officer
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 6, 2012
End of Document
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc - Strategy and SWOT Report - 2012 - News about Ryanair 
Holdings Plc , Such As Business Expansion, Restructuring and C....
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc - Strategy and SWOT Report - 
2012 - News about Ryanair Holdings Plc, Such As Business Expansion, 
Restructuring and Contract Wins
Business Wire
May 31, 2012 Thursday 3:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 337 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/s574rl/ryanair_holdings_p ) has announced 
the addition of the            "Ryanair Holdings plc - Strategy and SWOT Report" company profile to their offering.
Ryanair Holdings plc - Strategy and SWOT Report, is a source of comprehensive company data and information. 
The report covers the company's structure, operation, SWOT analysis, product and service offerings and corporate 
actions, providing a 360° view of the company.
Features:
- Detailed information on Ryanair Holdings plc required for business and competitor intelligence needs
- A study of the major internal and external factors affecting Ryanair Holdings plc in the form of a SWOT analysis
- An in-depth view of the business model of Ryanair Holdings plc including a breakdown and examination of key 
business segments
- Intelligence on Ryanair Holdings plc's mergers and acquisitions (M&A), strategic partnerships and alliances, 
capital raising, private equity transactions, and financial and legal advisors
- Large number of easy-to-grasp charts and graphs that present important data and key trends
Highlights:
Ryanair Holdings (Ryanair or the 'company') operates low fare scheduled passenger airline serving short haul, point 
to point routes between Ireland, the UK, and Continental Europe, as well as Morocco. It is headquartered in Dublin, 
Ireland and employs about 8,560 people. The company recorded revenues of E3,629.5 million ($4,796.7 million) 
during the financial year ended March 2011 (FY2011), an increase of 21.5% over FY2010. The operating profit of 
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc - Strategy and SWOT Report - 2012 - News about Ryanair 
Holdings Plc , Such As Business Expansion, Restructuring and C....
the company was E488.2 million ($645.2 million) during FY2011, an increase of 21.4% over FY2010. The net profit 
was E374.6 million ($495.1 million) in FY2011, an increase of 22.7% over FY2010.
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/s574rl/ryanair_holdings_p
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager.
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): 353-1-481-1716
Sector: Company Reports
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 1, 2012
End of Document
Research and Markets: Croatia Tourism Report Q3 2012 - Latest Figures for January 2012 Show a Robust 
Start to the Year for the Tourism Sector, With Foreign Tour....
Research and Markets: Croatia Tourism Report Q3 2012 - Latest Figures for 
January 2012 Show a Robust Start to the Year for the Tourism Sector, With 
Foreign Tourist Arrivals up Nearly 16% Y-O-Y
Business Wire
May 30, 2012 Wednesday 5:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 360 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/5n78fv/croatia_tourism_re ) has announced 
the addition of the            "Croatia Tourism Report Q3 2012" report to their offering.
Complete preliminary data for 2011 show foreign tourist arrivals grew by a solid 9% year-on-year (y-o-y). Due to 
weak domestic tourism growth of 2.4% y-o-y, total foreign and domestic tourist numbers increased by a slightly 
lower 8% y-o-y. After September and October witnessed strong growth in foreign arrivals, of 18.7% and 13.7% y-o-
y respectively, growth was more muted in both November and December. In Q411, conference tourism figures 
record 1,588 meetings held in Croatia, an increase of over 11% y-o-y.
The total number of participants though was down 4% y-o-y to 130,779, while foreign attendees increased by about 
7% to 13,563 (there was strong growth year-on-year in the number of foreign participants in Q1- Q311). The 
performance of cruise ship tourism was relatively subdued in 2011, with 830 cruises by foreign vessels going to 
Croatia, an annual fall of 3%. Passenger numbers grew by a modest 4.3% y-o-y to more than 1.1mn. Latest figures 
for January 2012 show a robust start to the year for the tourism sector, with foreign tourist arrivals up nearly 16% y-
o-y. Domestic tourism recorded growth of 6%, compared with January 2010.
Low-Cost Airlines
In 2012, the German low-cost airline Germanwings will increase the frequency of flights from Stuttgart to Croatia 
and also introduce flights to Split and Dubrovnik. From March, Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair connected Zadar and 
Billund Airport (Denmark), flying twice a week, and Zadar and Marseille, again with two flights per week. In July, 
until the end of the summer, Ryanair will connect Zadar with East Midlands Airport (UK), flying twice a week.
Companies Mentioned
- Adris Group
Research and Markets: Croatia Tourism Report Q3 2012 - Latest Figures for January 2012 Show a Robust 
Start to the Year for the Tourism Sector, With Foreign Tour....
- Croatia Airlines
- Cubus Lux
- Hilton Worldwide
- Liburnia Riviera Hoteli
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/5n78fv/croatia_tourism_re
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): 353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 31, 2012
End of Document
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Commences 2012 airRM User Conference
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Commences 2012 airRM User 
Conference
Business Wire
May 22, 2012 Tuesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers; Transportation Writers
Length: 367 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
The 2012 airRM User Conference, presented by Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS"), officially opened 
today in Seattle, Washington, U.S.A. The conference brings together airRM users from around the world and 
provides them with an opportunity to develop personal relationships with RMS staff and other airRM users. During 
the conference, attendees gain in-depth knowledge about the features, functions, and newest developments in 
airRM and have the ability to provide input with regard to the direction and priority of future airRM enhancements. 
The 2012 airRM User Conference, held in the new training facilities at RMS corporate headquarters, runs for 3 days 
from Tuesday, May 22 through Thursday, May 24, 2012.
"We are pleased to welcome attendees from all over the world for our annual airRM User Conference," said Scott 
Schade, CEO of RMS. "As a customer-centric organization, we consider events such as this critical to the success 
of our business. We look forward to spending time with our users and helping them to get the most from airRM."
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions. The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), Jetstar 
(Australia), and Vueling (Spain) to choose RMS as their revenue management partner.
airRMwas developed by RMS in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in the 
world. The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable decisions. 
In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new perspective in 
airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the market today.
More information about airRM and RMS may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Commences 2012 airRM User Conference
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 23, 2012
End of Document
Belle Air selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Belle Air selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
May 15, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 354 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc . ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to provideBelle 
Air with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. Belle Air has chosenairRM, the 
innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it identify sales opportunities and 
maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing and analyze 
performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are excited to announce our first Albanian based customer, Belle Air, as the latest airline to choose airRM as 
its revenue management solution," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "We look forward to working with Belle Air 
and helping them on their mission of becoming the preferred Airline on routes between Western and Southeastern 
Europe."
About Belle Air
More information about Belle Air may be found at www.belleair.eu .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
Belle Air selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 16, 2012
End of Document
All airlines are not created equal, reveals Skyscanner
All airlines are not created equal, reveals Skyscanner
Business Wire
May 8, 2012 Tuesday 12:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Lifestyle Editors
Length: 610 words
Dateline: EDINBURGH, Scotland 
Body
Leading travel search site Skyscanner , which compares both 'no frills' carriers and scheduled airlines, has found 
that in many scenarios, 'low cost' carriers can be more expensive than their 'full fare' counterparts, depending on 
the travellers' individual needs.
Due to the complexity of the fare structures, with additional charges for check-in bags, food, seat selection, and 
different fees depending on how the flight is paid for, getting the cheapest flights now depends on entirely on the 
individual's travel situation.
Basic Traveller with hand luggage only - fly Ryanair
For a single traveller flying with hand luggage only, and purchasing no food or drink onboard, no-frills carriers such 
as Ryanair and easyJet still tend to offer the lowest fares, with BA being the most expensive.
Airline
Flight
Ryanair
£264.92
easyJet
£287.96 ^
Thomson
£337.96
Monarch
£341.96
BA
£359.32
Flights for one adult and one child, from a London airport, to Malaga, departing 1 July, returning 8 July 2012. 
Searches made on 25April 2012
Flying with 20kg check-in bag - fly easyJet
Additional fees vary considerably from airline to airline; in the same scenario, adding the cost of a 20kg check-in 
bag, easyJet becomes the cheapest option, and Ryanair's fee jumps by £70, making it just £10 cheaper than BA, 
which moves in to third place.
Airline
Flight
20kgs Bag
Total
easyJet
£278.96
£30
£317.96 ^
All airlines are not created equal, reveals Skyscanner
Ryanair
£264.92
£70
£334.92 *
BA
£359.32
£0 (23kgs)
£359.32
Thomson
£337.96
£30
£367.96
Monarch
£341.96
£31.98
£373.94
Flights for one adult and one child, from a London airport, to Malaga, departing 1 July, returning 8 July 2012. 
Searches made on 25 April 2012
Skiers and Golfers - fly BA
For those wanting to carry sports equipment, scheduled airlines can offer the lowest fares. Whereas BA and Swiss 
carry skis or golf clubs as part of the normal baggage allowance for no extra fee, easyJet charge £50 and Ryanair 
charge a whopping £100, adding a considerable amount to the total fare.
Skyscanner compared the total costs for one adult flying from a London airport for a ski holiday to Geneva and a 
golf holiday to Faro, and found that BA offered the cheapest fare in both examples, once sports equipment was 
added.
Airline
Flight
20kgs 
Bag
Skis/Snowb
oard
Total
BA (LGW)
£104
£0
£0 ~
£104.00
Swiss 
(LHR)
£109
£0
£0 ~
£109.00
easyJet 
(LTN)
£56
£18.00
£50
£124.00 
^
Flight from a London airport, to Geneva, departing 5 January, returning 12 January 2013. Searches made on 
25April 2012
Airline
Flight
20kgs 
Bag
Golf clubs
Total
BA (LCY)
£216.50
£0
£0 ~
£216.50
Ryanair 
(STN)
£98.87
£70
£100 ~
£268.87
Flight from a London airport, to Faro departing 4 September, returning 11 September 2012. Searches made on 8 
May 2012
Sam Baldwin, Skyscanner Travel Editor commented:
"The airline offering the cheapest fare depends entirely on the individual's needs. For the lone passenger travelling 
with just hand baggage, no-frills airlines generally still offer the cheapest fares. But for families, groups, or those 
carrying sports equipment, it is much less clear cut, and in many cases, scheduled airlines may offer the best 
deals."
-ends-
Notes to editors:
* fare includes £24 web check-in charges.
^ fare includes £9 'administration' fee.
~ if within normal free baggage allowance
All prices based on return journeys
Credit card charges have not been included
All airlines are not created equal, reveals Skyscanner
About Skyscanner
Skyscanner is Europe's leading travel search site providing instant online comparisons for millions of flights on over 
a thousand airlines, from flights to Las Vegas and            cheap flights to London as well as car hire and hotels
Follow Skyscanner on Twitter and            Facebook
CONTACT: Press Office Contacts
Jamie Wortley/ Mary Porter
jamie@jpwcommunications.com / mary@skyscanner.net
07877589 910 / 0131 252 5353
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 9, 2012
End of Document
InterSky Luftfahrt GmbH Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
InterSky Luftfahrt GmbH Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
May 8, 2012 Tuesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 354 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to 
provideInterSky Luftfahrt GmbH ("InterSky") with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and 
reporting tools. InterSky has chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., 
to help it identify sales opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to 
closely control pricing and analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"airRM's user centric design and state-of-the-art tools are a perfect fit for InterSky," said Scott Schade, CEO of 
RMS, Inc. InterSky's decision to choose airRM demonstrates the flexibility of the system and our ability to provide 
different sized airlines with the best revenue management solution in the market today."
About InterSky
More information about InterSky may be found at www.intersky.biz .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
InterSky Luftfahrt GmbH Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 9, 2012
End of Document
Volotea Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
Volotea Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
Business Wire
May 1, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 512 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS") is pleased to announce that Volotea, Spain's newest airline, has 
begun using airRM to manage its flights in a live production environment. airRM is a state-of-the-art revenue 
management, inventory control, and reporting system that helps airlines take full advantage of available information 
in order to make better, more informed, more profitable decisions.
"We are delighted that in less than a month after selecting us, Volotea is up, running and reaping the benefits of 
airRM on a daily basis," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "Volotea is the latest in a growing list of airlines - 
including Jetstar, Ryanair, Air Asia and most recently Scoot - to have selected airRM as their revenue management 
solution. We look forward to a long and successful relationship between ourselves and Volotea."
"We are very pleased with having chosen RMS as our partner from the beginning of our exciting project. We believe 
airRM is the system we need to continuously enhance our results while taking advantage of the flexibility of its 
analysis, reporting, optimization and forecasting tools," said Ricardo Lozano, Director of Revenue Management at 
Volotea.
About Volotea
At Volotea we turn normal into reality: we connect small and medium sized European cities with non-stop direct 
flights at very competitive prices. We want you to spend more time at your destination and less time on the plane.
We offer many destinations, non-stop flights, budget prices, sensible times, friendly airports, complicity with the 
local area and simple hospitality. Good service at low cost.
We think on a human level: we don't follow the crowd, we cater for the individual.
To do this, we have gathered a team of first rate investors and professionals with vast experience in the airline 
industry.
More information about Volotea may be found at www.volotea.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
Volotea Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Transavia (The Netherlands), and Jetstar 
(Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in Seattle, 
Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 2, 2012
End of Document
Volotea Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Volotea Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
April 24, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Technology Writers
Length: 341 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to 
provideVolotea with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. Volotea has 
chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it identify sales 
opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing and 
analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are very excited to be working with Spain's newest airline, Volotea," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. 
"airRM's suite of inventory control, analysis and reporting tools are a perfect fit for Volotea as they begin service 
and embark on their aggressive growth strategy."
About Volotea
More information about Volotea may be found at www.volotea.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new-generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
Volotea Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 25, 2012
End of Document
flydubai selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
flydubai selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
April 17, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 344 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to 
provideflydubai with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. flydubai has 
chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it identify sales 
opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing and 
analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"RMS, Inc. is very excited to announce that flydubai, one of the fastest growing airlines in the world, has chosen 
airRM as its revenue management solution," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "We look forward to working 
with flydubai and welcome them to our ever expanding customer base."
About flydubai
More information about flydubai may be found at www.flydubai.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
flydubai selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 18, 2012
End of Document
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Announces 30th Airline Customer
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Announces 30th Airline Customer
Business Wire
April 17, 2012 Tuesday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 428 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS") is pleased to announce that its revenue management and reporting 
software systems are now being used by 30 different airlines throughout the world. This mark was achieved through 
the recent addition of flydubai, the fastest growing start-up airline in the world. RMS software is used on a daily 
basis by these 30 airlines to closely control pricing, manage inventory and analyze performance through a robust 
suite of cutting-edge features.
"We are excited to achieve this significant milestone," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "Our company continues to 
grow as airlines realize the efficiencies and advantages they can gain by using our software. We are gratified by 
their selection of us and we will continue to focus on providing the state-of-the-art technology and personalized 
service that has made us an industry leader."
Current RMS Airline Customers
A
i
r
 
A
s
i
a
M
al
a
y
si
a
J
e
t
B
l
u
e
 
A
i
r
w
a
y
s
U
S
A
A
i
r
 
I
c
Ic
el
a
n
d
J
e
t
s
t
a
A
u
st
r
al
ia
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Announces 30th Airline Customer
e
l
a
n
d
r
A
i
r
 
O
n
e
It
al
y
M
e
r
p
a
t
i
I
n
d
o
n
e
si
a
A
i
r
 
T
a
h
i
t
i
 
N
u
i
F
r
e
n
c
h 
P
ol
y
n
e
si
a
M
o
n
a
r
c
h
 
A
i
r
l
i
n
e
s
E
n
gl
a
n
d
A
v
i
a
n
c
a
 
B
r
a
s
i
l
B
r
a
zi
l
O
p
e
n
S
k
i
e
s
F
r
a
n
c
e
A
z
u
l
 
L
i
n
h
a
s
 
A
e
r
e
a
s
B
r
a
zi
l
P
e
a
c
h
 
A
v
i
a
t
i
o
n
J
a
p
a
n
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Announces 30th Airline Customer
B
l
u
e
 
P
a
n
o
r
a
m
a
It
al
y
P
e
g
a
s
u
s
T
u
r
k
e
y
C
a
p
e
 
A
i
r
U
S
A
R
y
a
n
a
i
r
Ir
el
a
n
d
C
o
n
d
o
r
G
e
r
m
a
n
y
S
c
o
o
t
S
in
g
a
p
o
r
e
F
l
y
d
u
b
a
i
U
A
E
T
r
a
n
s
a
t
 
A
.
T
.
C
a
n
a
d
a
G
a
r
u
d
a
 
C
i
t
i
l
i
n
k
I
n
d
o
n
e
si
a
T
r
a
n
s
a
v
i
a
N
e
t
h
e
rl
a
n
d
s
G
e
r
m
a
G
e
r
m
a
V
u
e
l
i
S
p
ai
n
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Announces 30th Airline Customer
n
i
a
n
y
n
g
G
o
 
A
i
r
l
i
n
e
s
I
n
di
a
W
e
b
j
e
t
 
L
i
n
h
a
s
 
A
e
r
e
a
s
B
r
a
zi
l
G
o
!
M
o
k
u
l
e
l
e
U
S
A
W
e
s
t
J
e
t
C
a
n
a
d
a
J
a
z
e
e
r
a
 
A
i
r
w
a
y
s
K
u
w
ai
t
Z
e
s
t
 
A
i
r
w
a
y
s
P
hi
li
p
pi
n
e
s
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS is a privately held company specializing inthedesign, development and support of innovative revenue 
management and reporting software solutions. The combination of superior software and personalized customer 
service has prompted airlines worldwide to choose RMS as their revenue management partner. RMS is 
headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRM - the innovative revenue management, inventory control and reporting software - was developed by RMS in 
cooperation with some of the most successful new generation airlines in the world. The result is a revenue 
management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping users take full advantage of 
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Announces 30th Airline Customer
available information to make better, more informed, more profitable decisions. In addition to the features and 
functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new perspective in airline revenue management with 
groundbreaking tools not available in any other system.
More information about airRM and RMS may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 18, 2012
End of Document
Research and Markets: Hungary Tourism Report Q2 2012 - A new Budapest- Bucharest Route will start in 
Summer 2012 via Wizz Air
Research and Markets: Hungary Tourism Report Q2 2012 - A new Budapest-
Bucharest Route will start in Summer 2012 via Wizz Air
Business Wire
April 3, 2012 Tuesday 6:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 379 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/c67ea39f/hungary_tourism_re ) has 
announced the addition of the            "Hungary Tourism Report Q2 2012" report to their offering.
Based on solid growth in foreign tourism in Q311, BMI has increased its annual growth estimate for tourist arrivals 
in 2011 to 9.1%. Our growth forecasts for 2012 and 2013 have been edged down to 4.8% and 5.5% y-o-y 
respectively, mainly due to a weaker outlook in the major source region, the eurozone. We now expect a mild 
recession in the eurozone over 2012, with growth in the coming years likely to be very weak. Our growth projections 
stand at 1.6% for 2011, -0.5% (revised down) in 2012 and 1.3% in 2013. Growth in Germany is forecast to slow 
sharply, from 3.0% in 2011 to 0.3% in 2012, picking up to 2.1% in 2013. In Austria, growth is expected to slow to 
0.8% in 2012 from 1.8% in 2011, edging up to 1.7% in 2013. BMI's view of continuing short-term weakness of the 
Hungarian forint should help to counter weak demand conditions in the major source markets.
The closure of Hungary's national airline resulted in many passengers being stranded in a number of European 
airports, damaging the country's reputation. The negative consequences for foreign tourism are unlikely to be 
severe as numerous competitor airlines, particularly low-cost carriers, are taking advantage of the grounding of 
Malév's fleet. Prior to the closure, Malév said that it was in talks with a potential investor or investors to sell the 
company, while the government has since said the airline could be relaunched if suitable investors can be found. 
However, the customer base for a rejuvenated Mal?v would be substantially weakened.
Taking advantage of the grounding of Malév, Ryanair, which is one of Europe's leading low-cost airlines, has based 
four brand new Boeing 737-800 aircraft at Budapest Airport since February 2012.
Companies Mentioned
- Accor-Pannonia Hotels
- Danubius Hotels Group
- Hilton Worldwide
Research and Markets: Hungary Tourism Report Q2 2012 - A new Budapest- Bucharest Route will start in 
Summer 2012 via Wizz Air
- Malév Hungarian Airlines
- Wizz Air
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/c67ea39f/hungary_tourism_re
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager.
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): 353-1-481-1716
Sector: Travel and Tourism
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 4, 2012
End of Document
Scoot Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Scoot Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
March 22, 2012 Thursday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 536 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to provideScoot 
with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. Scoot has chosenairRM, the 
innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it identify sales opportunities and 
maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing and analyze 
performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are excited about Scoot's selection of airRM as its revenue management solution," said Scott Schade, CEO of 
RMS, Inc. "Scoot's unique business requirements and aggressive implementation schedule highlight the flexibility of 
airRM and our focus on meeting our customers' needs. We look forward to implementing airRM at Scoot and 
providing them with the tools and support that lead them to initially choose airRM."
"We are very pleased to be working with RMS, Inc. airRM's comprehensive analysis and optimization tools will form 
a key part of Scoot's revenue maximization efforts. We believe airRM is well suited to support Scoot's unique 
approach to airfares as we continue to deliver innovative pricing and products to our guests in the years to come," 
said Campbell Wilson, CEO of Scoot, Singapore's new medium-to-long-haul, no-frills airline.
About Scoot(TM)
Scoot(TM) will provide medium and long haul no-frills flights from June 2012. With an initial fleet of four Boeing 777 
aircraft, Scoot's first-year routes will link Australia, Singapore and China, with other destinations to be announced. 
Scoot will provide - in addition to fantastic value airfares - a safe, reliable and contemporary travel experience with a 
unique attitude - Scootitude(TM). Scoot is passionate about changing the way people travel long distance. Book 
your tickets at Flyscoot.com or call +65 3158 3388 (Singapore) or +61 (0)2 8520 1888 (Australia). Check out more 
information about Scoot on            Facebook.com/FlyScoot and            Facebook.com/FlyScootAU .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Scoot Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 23, 2012
End of Document
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Opens Asia Pacific Support Office
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Opens Asia Pacific Support Office
Business Wire
March 8, 2012 Thursday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 313 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS") announces the establishment of its wholly owned subsidiary, 
Revenue Management Systems - Australia Pty Ltd ("RMS-A") which will operate from Melbourne, Australia and 
provide support services for the Asia Pacific region. This new Asia Pacific support office will allow RMS and RMS-A 
to continue developing localized customer support to meet the unprecedented demand in the Asia Pacific region for 
its flagship product - airRM.
"We are very pleased to announce the opening of RMS-Australia," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "The new 
office further strengthens our ability to provide customers with 24 hour per day, world-class support - a quality for 
which our company has become known."
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions. The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), Jetstar 
(Australia), and Vueling (Spain) to choose RMS as their revenue management partner.
airRMwas developed by RMS in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in the 
world. The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable decisions. 
In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new perspective in 
airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the market today.
More information about airRM and RMS may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Opens Asia Pacific Support Office
Load-Date: March 9, 2012
End of Document
Pegasus Airlines Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
Pegasus Airlines Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
Business Wire
March 7, 2012 Wednesday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Software Writers
Length: 563 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS") is pleased to announce that Pegasus Airlines has started using 
airRM, the state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting system from RMS, to manage its 
flights in a live production environment.
"We are excited to be working with Pegasus," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "We look forward to the Revenue 
Management team at Pegasus being able to reap the benefits of our world-class software and support. We are also 
pleased to include Crane, the airline reservation ("RES") system used by Pegasus, as the 11th RES system with 
connectivity to airRM."
"Pegasus Airlines recently started using airRM in production. Based on our experience during the selection, 
training, and go live periods we are confident that airRM is the revenue management system solution that best 
meets the needs of operating in our highly competitive environment. The system increases our work efficiency and 
allows us to focus more on analysis in addition to day-to-day management," said Asuman Kocaer, Manager of 
Revenue Management and Pricing at Pegasus Airlines.
About Pegasus
Pegasus Airlines, which was founded in 1990 by Sabanci Family's ESAS Holding, is Turkey's most established 
privately owned airline. Pegasus Airlines began its first domestic scheduled flights on November 1st, 2005 creating 
and implementing Turkey's first full low-cost airline strategy. By selecting Sabiha Gokcen Airport to be its principal 
airport and hub, Pegasus Airlines introduced the Turkish public to easy, comfortable and low-cost flying. Pegasus, 
who continues to invest heavily in the areas of flight safety and technological innovation to ensure on-time flying for 
all its guests, is racing ahead as one of Turkey's most innovative and dynamic companies.
Pegasus Airlines flew 11.3 million guests in 2011 and has a fleet size of 42 aircraft, including its sister airline Izair. 
Pegasus Airlines has Turkey's youngest B-738 fleet, with the average age of the Next-Generation Boeing 737-800s 
at 2.59 years. Pegasus Airlines flies scheduled services to 19 domestic and 31 international destinations. More 
information about Pegasus may be found at www.flypgs.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
Pegasus Airlines Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), and Jetstar (Australia) to 
choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 8, 2012
End of Document
Valencia Tourism: Jose Mourinho, Lady Gaga and Other International Figures to Appear at Valencia's Fallas 
Festival - Satirical statues to be paraded around the ....
Valencia Tourism: Jose Mourinho, Lady Gaga and Other International 
Figures to Appear at Valencia's Fallas Festival; - Satirical statues to be 
paraded around the city before being set alight -
Business Wire
February 28, 2012 Tuesday 10:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 611 words
Dateline: VALENCIA, Spain 
Body
One of the world's most unique and impressive fiestas will take place in Valencia, Spain, from 15-19 March. Las 
Fallas features gigantic, sculpted structures of wood, cardboard and papier-mâché, many of which portray topical 
events and personalities.
After being displayed and paraded around the city, each Falla is set alight as Valencia comes alive with firework 
displays, musical performances, intricate traditional outfits and artistic lighting.
Known for their satirical qualities, one of this year's prominent Fallas depicts a caricature Jose Mourinho with his 
finger in the eye of Tito Villanova, Barcelona's assistant coach. At the same time, Mourinho rests his foot on the 
head of Jorge Valdano, the former Real Madrid sporting director.
Lady Gaga is another 2012 Fallas subject, as is an Old Testament-style Steve Jobs, the late Apple CEO clothed in 
a robe and holding aloft two tablets.
Images can be downloaded here: http://brewhousegroup.com/valencia-las-fallas-images .
It's not the first time that Mourinho has inspired a statue - several years ago he was depicted kicking Barcelona 
coach Pep Guardiola in the crotch. Other football figures recently featured included a giant, vain Cristiano Ronaldo 
holding aloft a mirror.
Past political subjects have included the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy standing on the Eiffel tower and a stool 
to get a kiss from his wife Carla Bruni, and US president Barack Obama depicted as Superman carrying his wife 
Michelle. Another featured Vladimir Putin holding a violin-playing Dimitri Medvedev puppet.
The tradition originates from the days when Valencia's carpenters and furniture makers celebrated the onset of 
Spring by clearing out all the offcuts from their workshops and having a communal bonfire in the neighbourhood 
square.
Valencia Tourism: Jose Mourinho, Lady Gaga and Other International Figures to Appear at Valencia's Fallas 
Festival - Satirical statues to be paraded around the ....
In addition to the burning of the Fallas, the entire period of the fiesta is awash with firework displays - the most 
intense of which are the Mascleta. These are like a concert of gunpowder - hundreds of firecrackers exploding 
simultaneously each day at 2pm in the city's main square, the Plaza Ayuntamiento.
Throughout the fiesta, Valencia's streets are adorned with multi-coloured displays of hundreds of garlands of lights, 
competing for the title of best-decorated street.
The men (Falleros) and women (Falleras) of the festival each dress in intricate, embroidered traditional outfits. 
Children are also dressed traditionally. The Queen of the Fallas (Fallera Mayor) leads the celebrations - this year's 
Fallera Mayor is Sandra Munoz, a 28 year old agricultural engineer.
How to get there: easyJet flies daily from Gatwick to Valencia with flights from £41.99. Ryanair flies three times per 
week (Tues, Thurs & Sat) with flights from £30.99.
For the period of the festival, 22 restaurants will be offering a "Fallas menu" for 15 Euros (drinks not included) 
comprising starter, main course and dessert. Bookings can me made at http://www.turisvalencia.mobi , which offers 
the ability to view restaurant availability in real time.
Various discounts and offers can be accessed through the Valencia Tourist Card, which includes free public 
transport within the city (bus + metro) as well as discounts for museums, leisure activities, shops and restaurants. 
Cards are available for 24H (13.50 Euros), 48H (18 Euros) and 72H (22.50 Euros). Cards can be purchased at 
www.turisvalencia.es .
For further information visit www.fallas.com and            www.turisvalencia.es .
A detailed glossary of all Fallas terms and events can be downloaded here: http://brewhousegroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2012/02/Fallas-Glossary.docx .
CONTACT: Brewhouse Public Relations Ltd.
James Allen
07814 725686
james@brewhousegroup.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 29, 2012
End of Document
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Expands Seattle Headquarters New Facilities Acquired To Meet 
Unprecedented Product Demand
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Expands Seattle Headquarters; New 
Facilities Acquired To Meet Unprecedented Product Demand
Business Wire
February 7, 2012 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 370 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS") today announced that it has undertaken a major expansion of its 
corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington, U.S.A. This expansion will allow RMS to continue growing its 
software development and customer support staff in order to meet the unprecedented demand for its flagship 
product - airRM. It will also allow RMS to provide its customers with classroom training and conference facilities 
when they visit the Seattle headquarters. Construction is scheduled for completion in the second quarter of 2012.
"We are very excited to announce the expansion of our home office," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "This 
arrangement provides us with 5 times the square footage and ensures that we have sufficient capacity to grow our 
organization in a controlled, consistent, and comfortable manner for the next 3 to 5 years. This new office space 
ensures that we can continue providing our ever-expanding customer base with the rapid development cycle and 
world-class support for which our products and company have become known."
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions. The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), Jetstar 
(Australia), and Vueling (Spain) to choose RMS as their revenue management partner.
airRMwas developed by RMS in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in the 
world. The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable decisions. 
In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new perspective in 
airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the market today.
More information about airRM and RMS may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Expands Seattle Headquarters New Facilities Acquired To Meet 
Unprecedented Product Demand
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 1-206-281-1662
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 8, 2012
End of Document
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Collaborates with Dr. Larry Weatherford
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Collaborates with Dr. Larry Weatherford
Business Wire
February 7, 2012 Tuesday 1:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 574 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS") is pleased to announce its agreement with Dr. Larry Weatherford for 
consultation and collaboration on the mathematical models within airRM - the state-of-the-art revenue management, 
inventory control, and reporting system developed by RMS. Dr. Weatherford's standing as a leading expert in 
revenue management forecast and optimization modeling and his experience as Professor of Decision Science at 
the University of Wyoming make him uniquely qualified to assist RMS as it continues to provide and perfect the next 
generation of predictive models.
"We constantly push the technology envelope," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS. "This focus is demonstrated 
through our cutting-edge forecast, analysis, and decision support tools, our aggressive software release cycle, and 
our integration of external data sources, such as competitive fares, web analytics and tour operator data. We are 
excited to be working with Dr. Weatherford and we look forward to passing the benefits of our mutual collaboration 
on to our ever-growing customer base."
"I am honored and delighted for this opportunity to work with RMS," said Dr. Larry Weatherford. "I am continually 
impressed by the quality of customer who selects airRM as its revenue management solution. It is evident to me 
that the airline industry perceives airRM as truly exceptional software. I look forward to our successful collaboration 
on the algorithms which both power airRM and propel the growth of RMS."
About Dr. Lawrence R. Weatherford
Larry Weatherford is the Scarlett Endowed Chair at the University of Wyoming. He holds a Ph.D. from the 
University of Virginia. He has received several Outstanding Teaching Awards and also has a best-selling textbook, 
Decision Modeling with Microsoft Excel, published by Prentice Hall. He has published 25 scholarly articles and 
presented 73 papers on six different continents to professional organizations. He has consulted with such major 
corporations as Star Alliance, American Airlines, Northwest Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Swiss International 
Airlines, Scandinavian Airlines, Air New Zealand, Lan Chile, South African Airways, Walt Disney World, Hilton 
Hotels, Unisys Corporation, and Choice Hotels.
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. Collaborates with Dr. Larry Weatherford
RMS is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions. The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), Jetstar 
(Australia), and Vueling (Spain) to choose RMS as their revenue management partner. RMS is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS in cooperation with a number of the most successful new-generation airlines in the 
world. The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable decisions. 
In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new perspective in 
airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the market today.
More information about airRM and RMS may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 8, 2012
End of Document
Pegasus Airlines SelectsairRMas Its Revenue Management System
Pegasus Airlines SelectsairRMas Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
January 31, 2012 Tuesday 1:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2012 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 341 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to 
providePegasus Airlines ("Pegasus") with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting 
tools. Pegasus has chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it 
identify sales opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control 
pricing and analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"Today we are very excited to announce that Pegasus has chosen airRM as its revenue management solution," 
said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "We look forward to working with Pegasus and are thrilled to announce them 
as our launch customer in Turkey."
About Pegasus
More information about Pegasus may be found at www.flypgs.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
Pegasus Airlines SelectsairRMas Its Revenue Management System
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 1, 2012
End of Document
Revenue Resources Inc. Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System Vendor
Revenue Resources Inc. Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System 
Vendor
Business Wire
December 22, 2011 Thursday 10:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 284 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
In the press release, "go! Mokulele selects airRM as its Revenue Management System" dated December 20, 2011, 
go! Mokulele was incorrectly identified as having chosen airRM as its revenue management system. Instead, airRM 
has been chosen by Revenue Resources, Inc. as their preferred revenue management system vendor for the 
management of their customers including go! Mokulele.
About Revenue Resources Inc.
More information about Revenue Resources Inc. may be found at www.revresources.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
Revenue Resources Inc. Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System Vendor
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 23, 2011
End of Document
go! Mokulele selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
go! Mokulele selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
December 20, 2011 Tuesday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 350 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to providego! 
Mokulele ("go!") with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. go! has 
chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it identify sales 
opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing and 
analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are excited to announce that airRM has been chosen by go! as its revenue management solution," said Scott 
Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "We look forward to working with go! and are thrilled to announce them as our most 
recent customer. Surprisingly, all of our support personnel have volunteered for the install and training."
About go!
More information about go! may be found at www.iflygo.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
go! Mokulele selects airRM as its Revenue Management System
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 21, 2011
End of Document
Avianca Brasil Aviation Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Avianca Brasil Aviation Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
December 6, 2011 Tuesday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 413 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to 
provideAvianca Brasil ("Avianca") with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. 
Avianca has chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it identify 
sales opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing 
and analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are very excited to announce that Avianca Brasil has chosenairRMas its revenue management solution," said 
Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "Avianca's decision to useairRMsolidifies our presence in the fast growing 
Brazilian market. We look forward to providing Avianca with the cutting edge tools and first rate support that 
havecome to defineairRMand our company."
About Avianca
Voted the best airline company in customer service in rankings Review / IBRC 2010, Avianca has 14 Fokker MK-
28, 3 Airbus A319 and three Airbus A318. This means more comfort for passengers with more space between 
seats and a unique on-board service, with one of the most advanced entertainment systems in the world.
More information about Avianca may be found at www.avianca.com.br .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
Avianca Brasil Aviation Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 7, 2011
End of Document
Research and Markets: On-Trade Alcoholic Drinking Trends: Differentiating consumer on-trade drinking 
occasions to capitalize on value generating opportunities
Research and Markets: On-Trade Alcoholic Drinking Trends: Differentiating 
consumer on-trade drinking occasions to capitalize on value generating 
opportunities
Business Wire
December 5, 2011 Monday 12:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 403 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/51c696/ontrade_alcoholic ) has announced 
the addition of the "            On-Trade Alcoholic Drinking Trends: Differentiating consumer on-trade drinking 
occasions to capitalize on value generating opportunities " report to their offering.
As the off-trade has emerged as the primary channel of engagement between brand and consumers, the on-trade's 
role in brand building and in sales generation has had to change. On-trade exclusives; targeting under-represented 
on-trade demographic groups; harnessing the power of social media; and making the on-trade experience both 
interactive and experiential will be vital going forward.
Scope of the report:
•
Achieve sales growth by identifying how alcohol manufacturers are tapping into underlying consumers 
trends to drive sales growth
•
Enhance credibility during sales pitches by understanding the differing drivers of on trade drinking globally
•
Stimulate ideation and invigorate brands by learning from best practice examples from the beer, wine and 
spirits segments
•
Enhance your market positioning and concept development efforts and reduce risk for new product 
launches and increase the chances of success
Highlights:
•
The off-trade dominance across most markets presents a dilemma due to the value generation advantages 
that on-trade sales present and the fact that the traditional routes to market for new products are through 
that channel.
•
However, marketers must consider that the on-trade still presents the best way to make an impact in the 
market and achieve brand differentiation (particularly in a controlled bar environment where the product 
can stand out from the competition), which can be followed by a retail roll-out.
Research and Markets: On-Trade Alcoholic Drinking Trends: Differentiating consumer on-trade drinking 
occasions to capitalize on value generating opportunities
Companies Mentioned:
•
Admiral Group plc
•
Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV
•
Banco Santander S.A.
•
Brown-Forman Corporation
•
Burger King Corporation
•
C&C Group Plc
•
CMS Energy Corporation
•
Diageo plc
•
Fortune Brands Inc.
•
General Mills Inc.
•
Heineken N.V.
•
Hutchison 3G UK Limited
•
McDonald's Corporation
•
Metro AG
•
Nestl SA
•
Odwalla Inc.
•
Omnicom Group Inc.
•
Pernod Ricard SA
•
Royal KPN N.V.
•
Ryanair Holdings plc
•
SABMiller
•
Schindler Holding Ltd.
•
The World Bank
•
Wolters Kluwer nv
•
WPP Group plc
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/51c696/ontrade_alcoholic
Source: Datamonitor
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 6, 2011
Research and Markets: On-Trade Alcoholic Drinking Trends: Differentiating consumer on-trade drinking 
occasions to capitalize on value generating opportunities
End of Document
Condor Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Condor Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
November 29, 2011 Tuesday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Technology Writers
Length: 449 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to 
provideCondor Flugdienst GmbH ("Condor") with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and 
reporting tools. Condor has chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., 
to help it identify sales opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to 
closely control pricing and analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are very excited to be working with Condor," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "RMS's dedication to 
customer service excellence coupled with our commitment to offering the latest in revenue management technology 
will ensure Condor is provided with the best tools and support in the industry."
About Condor
Condor Flugdienst GmbH was founded in 1956 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Thomas Cook, one of the 
world's leading travel companies. Every year some six million passengers fly with Condor to over 70 destinations in 
Europe, Asia, Africa and America. The fleet of this leisure carrier consists of 35 modern and environmentally 
friendly aircraft: twelve Airbus A320s, 13 Boeing 757-300s and ten Boeing 767-300s. All Boeing planes are 
maintained by Condor Technik GmbH, and maintenance of the Airbus fleet is handled by Condor Berlin GmbH. 
Both are wholly owned subsidiaries of Condor Flugdienst GmbH.
More information about Condor may be found at www.condor.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new-generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
Condor Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 30, 2011
End of Document
Research and Markets: Outlet Center Retailing in Europe: Major Players, Strategies and New Opportunities - 
2011 Report Out Now
Research and Markets: Outlet Center Retailing in Europe: Major Players, 
Strategies and New Opportunities - 2011 Report Out Now
Business Wire
November 29, 2011 Tuesday 7:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 372 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/257e6b/outlet_center_reta ) has announced 
the addition of the "            Outlet Center Retailing in Europe: Major Players, Strategies and New Opportunities " 
report to their offering.
Outlet Center Retailing in Europe outlines the size of the discount outlet market across 27 countries, assesses the 
key strategic issues impacting the sector, and profiles the largest regional operators of outlet centers and outlet 
villages.
This report outlines the size of the outlet market and identifies growth markets based on new openings. It also 
provides insight into the issues impacting the sector and profiles the largest EU outlet operators.
Highlights:
•
The UK outlet market is the most heavily developed in the EU. The country contains 55 outlets and has 
14.0 sq m of outlet space per 1,000 people. Romania has the least developed discount outlet market in the 
region with only 1.3 sq m of outlet space per 1,000 people, however there are three new outlets in 
development.
•
Operating stores in outlet centers allows retailers to target a wider shopper audience however they must be 
careful not to cannibalise sales from full price stores. Many open outlet stores where they don't have any 
stores nearby and others are selling products that were not available in the full price stores within the 
national market.
•
McArthurGlen is the EU's largest pan-European outlet operator managing 20 outlet centers across five 
European markets. While other regional outlet operators are turning their attention to countries within the 
Asia Pacific region, McArthurGlen intends to develop its EU markets building new outlets in Germany and 
France.
Companies Mentioned:
•
Benetton Group S.p.A.
Research and Markets: Outlet Center Retailing in Europe: Major Players, Strategies and New Opportunities - 
2011 Report Out Now
•
BNP Paribas Group
•
Cerep SA
•
Levi Strauss & Co.
•
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA
•
Marks and Spencer Group plc
•
Nestl SA
•
Quiksilver Inc.
•
Ryanair Holdings plc
•
South African Airways
•
TJX Companies Inc
•
Tommy Hilfiger Corporation
•
VF Corporation
•
Wartsila Corporation
•
Wolters Kluwer nv
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/257e6b/outlet_center_reta
Source: Datamonitor
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 30, 2011
End of Document
According to Gocompare.com Survey, BA is Best and Ryanair is Worst as Brits Rate Airlines Ahead of the Half-
Term Getaway
According to Gocompare.com Survey, BA is Best and Ryanair is Worst as 
Brits Rate Airlines Ahead of the Half-Term Getaway
Business Wire
October 25, 2011 Tuesday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 549 words
Dateline: NEWPORT, Wales 
Body
With thousands of families set to jet off during the October half term for their last chance of a holiday before 
Christmas, passengers will experience at first hand the good, the bad and the downright ugly of air travel.
And despite the stresses of check-in queues, delays and cancellations, 52 per cent of us still enjoy going on holiday 
by air.
But according to new research from comparison site Gocompare.com , when it comes to customer satisfaction 
some airlines reach for the sky and others just don't get off the ground. And having gathered the opinions of holiday 
makers from across the country they've compiled a list of the top ten best and worst airlines.
It no longer calls itself 'the world's favourite airline' but British Airways is still a big hit with British travellers. The 
survey of 3000 UK adults put BA firmly at the top of the list of the nation's best airlines, comfortably beating Sir 
Richard Branson's Virgin Atlantic into second place.
Charter airlines Thomas Cook, Thomson Airways and Monarch also make the top ten best list and the highest 
placed foreign airlines were Emirates and Singapore Airlines with American Airlines just squeezing into joint 10th 
place with Qantas.
Unfortunately for Ryanair it was the clear winner of the worst airline category picking up nearly half as many votes 
again as its nearest rival, easyJet. In fact, the two biggest budget airlines accounted for nearly a third of all the 
'worst' votes cast, perhaps showing that cheap isn't always cheerful.
But the worst airlines list wasn't exclusively populated by budget airlines and charter operators. Despite topping the 
best airlines list British Airways also managed third place in the worst airlines table too.
Brits' 10 favourite airlines
Rank
Airline
% of votes
1
British Airways
19.1%
2
Virgin Atlantic
13.8%
3
Thomson Airways
6.4%
According to Gocompare.com Survey, BA is Best and Ryanair is Worst as Brits Rate Airlines Ahead of the Half-
Term Getaway
4
Easy Jet
4.9%
5
Emirates
3.7%
6
Thomas Cook
3.3%
7
Singapore Airlines
2.7%
8
Monarch
2.5%
9
Ryanair
2.1%
=10
American Airlines and Qantas
1.6%
Brits' 10 worst airlines
Rank
Airline
% of votes
1
Ryanair
19.3%
2
easyJet
12.1%
3
British Airways
5.9%
4
Monarch
4.4%
5
Thomas Cook
2.7%
6
Thomson Airways
2.5%
7
Virgin Atlantic
1.7%
8
Jet2
1.4%
9
American Airlines
1.2%
10
Flybe
1.1%
Other research highlights include:
•
35% of Brits find airports stressful
•
33% think it takes too long to check in
•
11% think the security checks are too strict
•
40% would prefer not to sit near families with young children
•
17% think alcoholic drinks should be banned on aeroplanes
Jeremy Cryer, Gocompare.com's Head of Travel insurance at Gocompare.com , commented: "Clearly some airlines 
will get your holiday off to a better start than others and it's interesting that even with the bucket shop pricing of the 
budget airlines plenty of passengers still don't consider their service good value for money. Our research found that 
whilst some people will put up with poor service in return for low fares many have vowed never to fly with a 
particular airline again. Travel insurance can give you cover for many holiday mishaps, including cancelled and 
delayed flights, but unfortunately there's no such cover against the scrum for unreserved seating, a lack of legroom 
or being served by unfriendly airline staff."
CONTACT: Gocompare.com
Lynsey Walden or Anders Nilsson
01633 654 055 / 01633 657 599
or
MAW Communications
Gordon Maw or Jason Wyer-Smith
01603 505 845
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 26, 2011
According to Gocompare.com Survey, BA is Best and Ryanair is Worst as Brits Rate Airlines Ahead of the Half-
Term Getaway
End of Document
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc - a quantitative valuation report updated daily
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc - a quantitative valuation report 
updated daily
Business Wire
October 24, 2011 Monday 4:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 287 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/d3ac69/ryaayryanair_hol ) has announced 
the addition of the "            (RYAAY)Ryanair Holdings Plc - Quantitative Valuation Report " company profile to their 
extensive offering.
With this valuation report, you too, as an individual investor or investment professional, can have access to the 
same tools used by equity fund and portfolio managers as they deal with billions of dollars in assets every business 
day. ValuEngine's ongoing cooperative research program, involving economists and financial theorists at Yale 
University and an in-house development team, has forged a solid bridge between the academic world and the 
marketplace. Armed with the freshest concepts and ideas, ValuEngine's team tests new theories and works out 
practical applications for them.
The quantitative valuation of Ryanair Holdings Plc provides:
•
Overview
•
Rating
•
Fair Value
•
Investment-Style Rating
•
Return Forecasts
•
Market Ratio-Based Valuation
•
Quantitative Summary
•
Comparisons
•
Earnings Report
•
Analyst Expectations
•
Annual Financials
•
Quarterly Financial
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc - a quantitative valuation report updated daily
Use this report to:
•
Optimize your equity portfolio for the best risk/return ratio.
•
Forecast equity portfolios value next year.
•
Find a fair value for stocks and forecast their future prospects.
•
Determine the chances of gain or loss on current holdings.
•
Find momentum & volatility ranks for stocks.
Note: ValuEngine's publications are updated on a daily basis and you will receive the most recent publication when 
you order.
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/d3ac69/ryaayryanair_hol
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 25, 2011
End of Document
Airline ancillary revenue soars to $32.5 billion worldwide in 2011; The Amadeus worldwide estimate of ancillary 
revenue reveals a $9.9 billion increase of 43.8%
Airline ancillary revenue soars to $32.5 billion worldwide in 2011; The 
Amadeus worldwide estimate of ancillary revenue reveals a $9.9 billion 
increase of 43.8%
Business Wire
October 19, 2011 Wednesday 2:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 1899 words
Dateline: MADRID & SHOREWOOD, Wis. 
Body
Ancillary revenue has become a crucial component in the global airline industry's profit toolbox. The International 
Air Transport Association slashed its 2011 industry profit outlook to $4 billion and revealed that carriers will spend 
$10 billion more on jet fuel this year.1 The $32.5 billion contributed by ancillary revenue has lifted the airline 
industry from a loss-making position and continues to provide a very effective hedge against runaway fuel bills.
Earlier this year, Amadeus and IdeaWorks reported the ancillary revenue disclosed by 47 airlines in 2010. These 
statistics were applied to a larger list of more than 200 airlines to provide a truly global projection of activity for 
2011. The Amadeus Worldwide Estimate of Ancillary Revenue for 2011 is the second year Amadeus and 
IdeaWorks have undertaken the task of calculating global ancillary revenue activity.
Amadeus Worldwide Estimate of Ancillary Revenue
2011 
Ancillary
201
0 
Anci
llary
Airline Category
Revenue
Rev
enu
e
Increase 
for 2011
US Major Airlines
$12.5 
billion
$6.7 
billio
n
87%
Low Cost Carriers
$4.8 
billion
$3.6 
billio
n
33%
Traditional Airlines
$10.9 
billion
$8.5 
billio
n
28%
Ancillary Revenue Champs
$4.3 
billion
$3.8 
billio
n
13%
Airline ancillary revenue soars to $32.5 billion worldwide in 2011; The Amadeus worldwide estimate of ancillary 
revenue reveals a $9.9 billion increase of 43.8%
Worldwide Totals
$32.5 
billion
$22.
6 
billio
n
43.8%
Source: Ancillary revenue statistics applied by IdeaWorks to individual airline revenue results listed in 
the Worldwide Airline Report in the July 2011 issue of Air Transport World.
"As ancillary revenues continue to grow rapidly, we are now seeing increasing interest from full service carriers 
around the world, which are also starting to implement ancillary services through global distribution systems, such 
as Amadeus. KLM and Iberia, for instance, have just joined the ranks of carriers implementing the Amadeus 
Ancillary Services solution for travel agencies. The model is now focusing on services that increase the scope of the 
product offering and reinforce the brand rather than unbundle the ticket price," said Holger Taubmann, VP 
Distribution, Amadeus.
The IdeaWorks analysis reveals natural groupings (or categories) based upon a carrier's ability to generate ancillary 
revenue. The "percentage of revenue" results associated with four defined categories were applied to a worldwide 
list of operating revenue disclosed by 203 airlines.2 The following describes the four categories:
•
Ancillary Revenue Champs. These carriers generate the highest activity as a percentage of operating 
revenue. The average achieved by this group was 19.8%, which is slightly up from 19.4% for 2010. 
Examples include AirAsia, Aer Lingus, easyJet, Ryanair and Spirit Airlines.
•
Major US Airlines. US-based majors generate strong ancillary revenue through a combination of frequent 
flier revenue and baggage fees. The average for this group was 11.9%, which is a sizable increase above 
the 2010 rate of 7.2%. Examples include Alaska, American and United.
•
Low Cost Carriers. LCCs throughout the world typically rely upon a mix of à la carte fees to generate good 
levels of ancillary revenue. The average in this group was 6.5% and is above last year's 5.4%. Examples 
include AirTran, Blue1, IndiGo, Jazeera Airways, Pegasus and Spring Airlines.
•
Traditional Airlines. This category represents a catch-all for the largest number of carriers. Ancillary 
revenue activity may consist of fees associated with excess or heavy bags and limited partner activity for a 
frequent flier program. The average here remained at 2.9%. Examples include Air China, Emirates, Finnair, 
LAN, Qatar Airways and Singapore Airlines.
"Outside of the US market and the global LCC sector, airlines tend to choose a model that complies with industry 
standards rather than a customized approach to the development and deployment of their ancillary services," said 
Julia Sattel, VP Airline IT, Amadeus. "Our philosophy is to balance the productivity and efficiency that industry 
standards bring with the desire for some airlines to customize the way in which their product is packaged and sold."
"Whatever the model, there is no doubt that the growth of ancillary sales is here to stay. The Electronic 
Miscellaneous Document (EMD) standard for the fulfillment of ancillary sales is rapidly gaining momentum. 
According to IATA, there are now 28 airlines in the world that are EMD capable, 15 of which are using Amadeus' 
EMD Server and have issued over 2.5 million EMDs this year alone," said Sattel.
The US Major Airlines category continues to produce a commanding share of global ancillary revenue: The $12.5 
billion result (38% of the global total) represents just seven airlines: Alaska Airlines, American, Continental, Delta, 
Hawaiian, United, and US Airways. Compare this to the second largest piece of the pie at $10.9 billion (34% of the 
global total) which is generated by a far larger group of 140 airlines, the Traditional Airline category. As proven by 
this revenue result, US-based airlines have readily adapted to an à la carte world, but they also benefit from 
consumers who are keen to get frequent flier miles.
IdeaWorks believes that the majority of ancillary revenue for US major airlines is generated by the sale of frequent 
flier miles, notably those linked to co-branded credit card activity. This financial activity exceeds $6.5 billion annually 
in the US alone. Baggage fees for US carriers represent approximately 20% of their ancillary receipts. The 
remaining revenue is produced by a large array of à la carte and commission-based activities.
Airline ancillary revenue soars to $32.5 billion worldwide in 2011; The Amadeus worldwide estimate of ancillary 
revenue reveals a $9.9 billion increase of 43.8%
Other sources include on-board sales of food, beverages, Wi-Fi, and hotel bookings. In addition, airlines offer an 
ever-increasing selection of services that add to traveler convenience such as priority security screening, early 
boarding, and exit row seat assignments.
The ancillary revenue profile outside the US is difficult to define due to carrier-by-carrier differences. The outsized 
presence of frequent flier program revenue is most obvious in the US. However, major carriers in other countries, 
such as Australia, Brazil, and Canada, do generate significant revenue from the sale of miles and points to banks, 
hotels, retailers, and even direct to program members.
Carriers in North America began to emphasize ancillary revenue after the oil price shock of 2008. Not surprisingly, 
this region leads the world for ancillary revenue production. IdeaWorks estimates the region achieved a stunning 
72% increase above the level estimated for 2010. Ancillary revenue rose across the globe and was largely driven 
by traffic and passenger revenue increases as the industry recovered from the 2009 recession.
Ancillary Revenue Estimates by World Region
2011 
Ancill
ary
2010 
Ancill
ary
Incr
eas
e
World Region
Reve
nue
Reve
nue
for 
201
1
North America
$15 
billion
$8.7 
billion
72%
Africa / Middle East
$1.4 
billion
$0.9 
billion
52%
Latin America / Caribbean
$0.8 
billion
$0.6 
billion
47%
Asia / Pacific
$6.3 
billion
$4.8 
billion
30%
Europe
$9 
billion
$7.6 
billion
18.7
%
Source: Ancillary revenue statistics applied by IdeaWorks to individual airline revenue results listed in 
the Worldwide Airline Report in the July 2011 issue of Air Transport World.
IdeaWorks believes that 48% of the $9.9 billion worldwide increase can be attributed to the higher overall level of 
revenue and passenger activity. Simply stated, an increase of the base generates a larger calculated result. The 
remaining 52% is attributed to carriers becoming more focused on ancillary revenue through better financial 
disclosure, stronger merchandising efforts, and adding more à la carte services for sale.
Savvy airline managers have learned ancillary revenue should not rely upon forced choices, but rather allow 
consumers to tailor travel according to their budget. Consumers who are treated fairly and receive good value will 
undoubtedly provide airlines with another good year of ancillary revenue growth for 2012.
See infographic and blog post on how ancillaries are changing the economic landscape for airlines: 
http://www.amadeus.com/blog/19/10/ancillary-revenue-coming-soon-around-the-world
Disclosure: IdeaWorks makes every effort to ensure the quality of the information in this report. Before relying on 
the information, readers should obtain any appropriate professional advice relevant to their particular 
circumstances. IdeaWorks and Amadeus cannot guarantee, and assume no legal liability or responsibility for the 
accuracy, currency or completeness of the information. Figures for 2011 have been expressed in US dollars only; 
year over year comparisons have not been included for the euro due to significant currency fluctuations. Revenue 
expressed in billions of dollars was rounded to the nearest $100 million.
Notes to the editors
About Amadeus
Airline ancillary revenue soars to $32.5 billion worldwide in 2011; The Amadeus worldwide estimate of ancillary 
revenue reveals a $9.9 billion increase of 43.8%
Amadeus is a leading transaction processor and provider of advanced technology solutions for the global travel and 
tourism industry.
Customer groups include travel providers (e.g. airlines, hotels, rail, ferries, etc.), travel sellers (travel agencies and 
websites), and travel buyers (corporations and individual travellers).
The group operates a transaction-based business model and processed 850 million billable travel transactions in 
2010.
Amadeus has central sites in Madrid (corporate headquarters), Nice (development) and Erding (operations - data 
processing centre) and regional offices in Miami, Buenos Aires, Bangkok and Dubai. At a market level, Amadeus 
maintains customer operations through 73 local Amadeus Commercial Organisations covering 195 countries.
Amadeus is listed on the Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao and Valencia stock exchanges and trades under the symbol 
"AMS.MC". For the year ended 31 December 2010, the company reported revenues of EUR 2,683 million and 
EBITDA of EUR 1,015 million. The Amadeus group employs around 10,000 employees worldwide, with 123 
nationalities represented at the central offices.
To find out more about Amadeus please go to www.amadeus.com .
To visit the Amadeus Investor Relations centre please go to www.investors.amadeus.com .
About IdeaWorks
IdeaWorks was founded in 1996 as a consulting organization building brands through innovation in product, 
partnership and marketing, and building profits through financial improvement and restructuring. Its international 
client list includes the hotel, airline, marine, railroad, consumer products and health care sectors. IdeaWorks 
specializes in ancillary revenue improvement, brand development, customer research, competitive analysis, 
partner-marketing 
strategies, 
elite 
customer 
recognition, 
and 
loyalty 
programs. 
Learn 
more 
at 
IdeaWorksCompany.com.
1 "Airline Industry 2011 Profit Outlook Slashed to $4 Billion" IATA press release dated June 6, 2011.
2 Operating revenue results were drawn from the World Airline Report published in the July 2011 issue of Air 
Transport World. Additional sources were used, such as disclosures made at airline investor relations websites, to 
complete the list of 203 airlines. Adjustments were made to prevent duplicate reporting associated with regional 
affiliates. Pure cargo carriers, such as FedEx and UPS Airlines, were not included.
Photos/MultimediaGallery Available: http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=50035195&lang=en
CONTACT: IdeaWorks
For inquiries:
Jay Sorensen
1-414-961-1939
Jay@IdeaWorksCompany.com
or
Amadeus
Amadeus North America
Debbie Iannaci
Director, Public Relations
305-499-6448
diannaci@amadeus.com
or
CRT/tanaka for Amadeus North America
Airline ancillary revenue soars to $32.5 billion worldwide in 2011; The Amadeus worldwide estimate of ancillary 
revenue reveals a $9.9 billion increase of 43.8%
Christian Munson
Associate Vice President
804-675-8151
cmunson@crt-tanaka.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 20, 2011
End of Document
Avolon leases 9 Boeing & Airbus aircraft to Ryanair and AirAsia; Avolon increases committed debt facilities to 
US$2.6 billion
Avolon leases 9 Boeing & Airbus aircraft to Ryanair and AirAsia; Avolon 
increases committed debt facilities to US$2.6 billion
Business Wire
September 26, 2011 Monday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Aviation Writers; Travel Editors
Length: 720 words
Dateline: DUBLIN & NEW YORK & HONG KONG 
Body
Avolon, the international aircraft leasing group, today announces that it has leased nine aircraft to Ryanair and 
AirAsia, two of the world's leading low cost carriers. Avolon also announces that it has increased its committed debt 
facilities by US$600 million to US$2.6 billion.
Highlights
•
Nine aircraft leased to Ryanair and AirAsia, two of the world's leading low cost carriers
•
US$600m in additional debt commitments bringing total debt facilities to US$2.6 billion
•
Five Boeing 737-800s leased to Ryanair
•
Four Airbus A320 aircraft leased to AirAsia
•
Seven of the aircraft deliver this week with two delivering in early 2012
•
Avolon's committed fleet now stands at 88 aircraft with 25 customers in 18 countries; with a total fleet value 
in excess of US$4 billion
•
Avolon Page Avolon has the youngest lessor fleet in the world with an average aircraft age of 1.4years.
Avolon Chief Commercial Officer, John Higgins, commented:
"We are delighted to announce Ryanair and AirAsia, two of the world's leading low cost 
carriers, as Avolon customers. The Avolon team has a long history of doing business with both 
airlines having completed our first transaction with Ryanair in 1996 and with AirAsia on its 
launch in 2001. We have huge respect for the management teams at these carriers and the 
robust business models they have created."
"From a wider portfolio perspective today's announcement demonstrates our ability to continue 
to provide innovative and competitive financing to the world's best airlines. It also highlights our 
focus on investing in only the highest quality assets, thereby maximising risk-adjusted returns."
"The additional debt facilities we are announcing are also significant not only by virtue of the 
scale of the commitments secured but also because it reflects the increasing ability of the 
business to access a broader range of debt structures and products."
Avolon leases 9 Boeing & Airbus aircraft to Ryanair and AirAsia; Avolon increases committed debt facilities to 
US$2.6 billion
Ryanair | Five Boeing 737-800s
Avolon has leased five Boeing 737-800 aircraft to Ryanair. Ryanair is one of the world's leading low cost carriers 
operating over 270 Boeing 737 aircraft from 44 bases in Europe. Ryanair carried over 72 million passengers last 
year. Avolon will deliver five new Boeing 737-800 aircraft to Ryanair in the coming week. The aircraft will deliver at 
Boeing's facility in Seattle, USA under sale and leaseback structures.
AirAsia | Four Airbus A320s
Avolon has leased four Airbus A320 aircraft to AirAsia. AirAsia Group is Asia's largest low cost carrier operating 95 
aircraft from 12 hubs serving more than 20 countries. AirAsia carried over 16 million passengers last year. Two 
Airbus A320 aircraft will deliver this week with two more units delivering in early 2012. All four aircraft are under a 
sale and leaseback structure.
Capital Raising | US$600m additional debt commitments
Avolon has, in the past 90 days, secured additional debt commitments of US$600 million. The additional debt 
commitments include export credit supported (ECA) financing; pre-delivery payment (PDP) financing; second lien 
financing; and, additional term debt facilities. Avolon has secured US$2.6 billion of debt commitments since launch 
and the company is now supported by 15 global financial institutions.
About Avolon
Headquartered in Ireland, with offices in Stamford CT, Hong Kong and Shanghai, Avolon provides aircraft leasing 
and lease management services. Avolon's investors include three of the world's leading private equity firms Cinven, 
CVC Capital Partners and Oak Hill Capital Partners.
Avolon has established itself as one of the leading global players in the aircraft leasing sector, leveraging off the 
strong financial backing of its owners and the extensive trading history and senior industry relationships of its 
management team. The primary asset focus of the business is on young fuel-efficient single-aisle aircraft such as 
the Airbus A320 family and Boeings 737NG family. In addition, Avolon also invests in best-in-class twin-aisle aircraft 
such as the Airbus A330 family and Boeing 777 family. Avolon has a committed fleet of 88 aircraft serving 25 
customers in 18 countries. Avolon's fleet is also the youngest lessor fleet in the world with an average aircraft age 
of 1.4 years. See www.avolon.aero
CONTACT: Avolon
Jonathan Neilan, +353 1 663 3686
jonathan.neilan@fd.com
or
Harriet Mansergh, +353 1 663 3686
harriet.mansergh@fd.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 27, 2011
End of Document
Infant Fees Cost More Than Airline Fares, Reveals Skyscanner
Infant Fees Cost More Than Airline Fares, Reveals Skyscanner
Business Wire
September 23, 2011 Friday 8:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Airline Writers; Lifestyle Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 613 words
Dateline: EDINBURGH, Scotland 
Body
A study by Skyscanner.net has revealed that parents flying with some airlines may be spending more on infant fees 
than the cost of a full adult fare.
Although children under two are able to travel without having to purchase a separate seat, research carried out by 
flight comparison site Skyscanner has found that in some cases it is actually cheaper to purchase an additional seat 
for an infant than to pay the fixed infant fee charge.
Many of those travelling with children under the age of two may be unaware that they can purchase a seat for their 
tot, providing they travel in a car seat and are over six months of age*. This means that parents get more room, 
often additional baggage allowance and may even save money too.
While many airlines charge a percentage of the full seat price for infants to fly on their parent's knees, most carriers 
charge a set infant fee of between £30 and £50, often a similar cost to the price of paying for a seat on a low cost 
airline.
For instance the research found parents flying with an infant on bmibaby could actually save £7 if they bought a 
seat rather than paying the set infant charge on some flights, as per the example below. Although all the other 
airline examples in the study showed that it cost more to book a seat than pay the infant fee, this was a relatively 
small amount, ranging from just £3 to £30 for a return flight:
Airline
Journey
Cost 
for seat
Infant 
fees
Saving/cost if 
seat bought for 
infant
bmiba
by
Manchester to Knock, 6 
Oct - 13 Oct
£43
£50
SAVE £7!
easyJ
et
Luton to Dortmund, 19 
Nov - 27 Nov
£43
£40
PAY JUST £3 
EXTRA
Mona
rch
Gatwick to Malaga, 8 Oct 
- 15 Oct
£59
£30
PAY £29 
EXTRA
Aer 
Lingu
s
Manchester to Shannon, 
17 Nov - 23 Nov
£67
£38
PAY £29 
EXTRA
Infant Fees Cost More Than Airline Fares, Reveals Skyscanner
Jet 2
Manchester to Prague, 
15 Nov - 22 Nov
£60
£30
PAY £30 
EXTRA
The study also revealed that, due to the disparity between some airlines charging a fixed cost for infant fees and 
others charging a percentage of the full fare, the total cost for one adult and one infant could vary considerably.
For instance in the example below using a similar route and dates, Thomson becomes a cheaper option than both 
Ryanair and easyJet for one adult and one infant, and although BA remains the most expensive, the difference is 
minimal:
Airline
Journey, 6 
Nov - 13 Nov
Adult 
fare
Infant 
fees/fare
Cost one 1 
adult + 1 infant
Monarc
h
London 
Gatwick to 
Malaga
£67
£30
£97
Aer 
Lingus
London 
Gatwick to 
Malaga
£68
£38
£106
Ryanair
London 
Stansted to 
Malaga
£85
£40
£125
easyJet
London 
Gatwick to 
Malaga
£86
£40
£126
Thoms
on
London 
Gatwick to 
Malaga
£94
£30
£124
BA
London 
Gatwick to 
Malaga
£123
£12.30
£135.30
Skyscanner's Mary Porter, mother of one, said: "Many parents may not know that it is even an option to purchase a 
seat for under 2's, but this could be a very appealing option for parents who don't want a wriggling toddler on their 
knee for the duration of the flight, especially those booking longer journeys and if they can get this benefit without 
having to pay a huge amount extra then it's the perfect situation!".
All fares and fees correct as at 20 Sep 2011. Prices taken from Skyscanner.net
Notes to editor:
*Restrictions may differ between airlines and booking a seat for an infant may involve calling the airline directly. 
Please check with the airline before booking.
Please note, Ryanair have not be included in this study as it is not possible to book a separate seat for a child 
under 2.
Ends
About Skyscanner
Skyscanner is a travel search site providing online comparisons on flight prices for millions of flights on over 600 
airlines, as well as car hire, hotels and deals.
Follow Skyscanner on Twitter and            Facebook
CONTACT: Cass Helstrip/ Mary Porter
cass@skyscanner.net / mary@skyscanner.net
Infant Fees Cost More Than Airline Fares, Reveals Skyscanner
07968 255 464 / 0131 252 5353
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 24, 2011
End of Document
Peach Aviation Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Peach Aviation Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
September 13, 2011 Tuesday 12:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 433 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is excited to announce that it has been selected to 
providePeach Aviation ("Peach") with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. 
Peach has chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS, Inc., to help it identify 
sales opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing 
and analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are very excited to announce that Japan's first official low cost carrier, Peach, has chosen airRM as its revenue 
management solution," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "airRM's user friendly design coupled with its industry 
leading analysis, reporting, and forecasting modules give Peach the cutting edge tools they require as they prepare 
for launch."
About Peach
Peach became Japan's first official LCC (low cost carrier) airline company in February 2011. It will be commencing 
flights from its home base, Kansai International Airport, no later than March 2012.
Peach creates new airline networks across Asian countries. It is dedicated to providing safe, reliable, and affordable 
flights that will create new value and options in air travel. Peach will become a bridge between the growing 
economies of Asia and Japan.
More information about Peach may be found at www.flypeach.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), AirAsia (Malaysia), and 
Jetstar (Australia) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
Peach Aviation Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 14, 2011
End of Document
IPREX Appoints Three New Regional Directors
IPREX Appoints Three New Regional Directors
Business Wire
August 30, 2011 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 431 words
Dateline: MINNEAPOLIS 
Body
IPREX - the worldwide corporation of independent public relations and communication firms - has appointed three 
new members of staff reporting to regional presidents:
Alaina Gjertsen (Director, the Americas): Alaina studied in Sub-Saharan Africa, China and Switzerland before 
working as an executive recruiter in Southern California, and then moving to Washington, D.C. where she directed 
a research program for an international trade association while earning her Master's at Georgetown University. She 
has since worked in public relations and public affairs capacities on both agency and client sides, most recently for 
the NYSE-traded energy company Continental Resources, Inc.
Thor Erling Lund (Director, EMEA):Thor has an MSc in International Marketing and long experience of working at a 
senior level on global brands such as MTV, Ryanair and Logitech. He lectures undergraduates and MBA students 
on strategy and PR at the Norwegian School of Management, and has served five years as the VP of NPRCA - the 
Norwegian Public Relations Consultants Association. His firm Consilio has been the Norwegian IPREX partner for 
15 years.
Cameron Blair (Director, Asia Pacific): After living in Vancouver for 18 years, Cameron moved to South East Asia 
where he has worked for newspapers and magazines as a journalist and press photographer and run his own 
business. He is currently studying for an MBA.
The regional directors' role is to manage IPREX operations within their regions - handling enquiries from 
prospective partners and clients, streamlining contact with and between partners as they develop business together 
and representing partners' views to the Executive Committee.
IPREX President Worldwide Kathy Tunheim ( Tunheim, Minneapolis ) said "These appointments reflect our 
commitment to world-class professional internal management of our organization. Interactions between partners 
seem to be increasing exponentially, and as a network we are delivering more partner services than ever. The 
regional directors are an important part of a team dedicated to ensuring that partners receive a significant return on 
their investment with us."
About IPREX
IPREX Appoints Three New Regional Directors
IPREX is one of the world's major corporations of independent public relations and communication firms. Founded 
in 1983, its 68 partners have 102 offices in North and South America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific, 
with annual revenue of US$178m. Its 1,300 professionals provide a comprehensive range of services for some of 
the world's most successful companies.
CONTACT: For IPREX
David Watson, +44 1273 845462
executive@iprex.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 31, 2011
End of Document
AirAsia Selects airRM As Its Revenue Management System
AirAsia Selects airRM As Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
August 23, 2011 Tuesday 12:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 473 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS Inc") is pleased to announce that AirAsia has selected it to 
providethem with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. AirAsia has 
chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS Inc to help it identify sales 
opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing and 
analyze performance through a robust suite of features and functions.
"We are excited that Asia's leading airline, AirAsia, has picked airRM as its revenue management solution," said 
Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "AirAsia is a great organization and we are very proud that our software continues 
to be the preference of such highly-successful airlines as AirAsia, WestJet, Ryanair, Jetstar, Vueling and others. 
airRM's innovative tools and industry-leading technology will further strengthen AirAsia's ability to achieve low 
costs, maximize its revenue and expand its markets."
About AirAsia
Asia's leading airline was established with the dream of making flying possible for everyone. Since 2001, AirAsia 
has swiftly broken travel norms around the globe and has risen to become the world's best. With a route network 
that spans through more than 20 countries, AirAsia continues to pave the way for low-cost aviation through its 
innovative solutions, efficient processes and a passionate approach to business. Together with its associate 
companies, AirAsia X, Thai AirAsia and Indonesia AirAsia, AirAsia is set to take low-cost flying to an all new high 
with the belief, "Now Everyone Can Fly".
More information about AirAsia may be found at www.airasia.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS Inc is a privately held company specializing inthedesign, development and support of innovative revenue 
management software solutions. The combination of superior software and personalized customer service has 
prompted airlines such as WestJet (Canada), Ryanair (Ireland), Jetstar (Australia), and Vueling (Spain) to choose 
RMS Inc as their revenue management partner. RMS Inc is headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
AirAsia Selects airRM As Its Revenue Management System
airRMwas developed by RMS Inc in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world. The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable decisions. 
In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new perspective in 
airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system.
More information about airRM and RMS Inc may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, 206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 24, 2011
End of Document
Skyscanner: Which Airline Offers the Best Inflight Wine? That's "Easy"...
Skyscanner: Which Airline Offers the Best Inflight Wine? That's "Easy"...
Business Wire
August 11, 2011 Thursday 9:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Lifestyle Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 513 words
Dateline: EDINBURGH, Scotland 
Body
A panel of international travellers and wine experts has declared easyJet's wine the winner in a recent tasting of 
airline wines, conducted by flight comparison site Skyscanner .
The panel of ten judges, lead by wine expert Tom Cannavan , were asked to blind taste 12 red and 12 white wines 
served on board the major carriers, and score each a mark out of 10.
Flying the flag for budget carriers, easyJet's Louis Mondeville C ô tes de Gasgogne (France) took first place in the 
white wine category, although rival no frills airline Ryanair was not far behind with its offering, Garganega Trebbiano 
Villa Cardini (Italy), in 5th place.
The winning reds showed a greater preference towards national carriers with British Airways' Argento Malbec 
coming out top, followed by Emirates Weighbridge Shiraz by Peter Lehmann. In joint third place were Air France's 
Coulers Du Sud Syrah Pays D'oc and KLM's Terra Andina Cabernet Sauvignon Merlot.
KLM and Virgin were the only airlines to have their wines appear in the top 5 in both red and white categories.
The highest scoring wines were as follows:
White wine
Red wine
Airline
Details
Airline
Details
1. 
easyJet
Louis Mondeville 
Côtes de Gasgogne 
(France)
1. British Airways
Argento Malbec 
(Argentina)
2. SAS
Crusan Colombard 
Sauvignon Côtes de 
Gasgogne (France)
2. Emirates
Weighbridge Shiraz 
by Peter Lehmann 
(Australia)
3. Virgin 
Atlantic
Paul Sapin, Florinda 
Airen Sauvingnon 
Blanc (Spain)
3. Air France
Coulers du Sud 
Syrah Pays D'oc 
(France)
4. KLM
Terra Andina 
Sauvignon Blanc - 
Chardonnay (Chile)
3. KLM
Terra Andina 
Cabernet Sauvignon 
Merlot (Chile)
Skyscanner: Which Airline Offers the Best Inflight Wine? That's "Easy"...
5. 
Ryanair
Garganega 
Trebbiano Villa 
Cardini (Italy)
5. Virgin
Paul Sapin, Florinda 
Airen Cabernet 
Sauvingnon (Spain)
James Cave, Skyscanner's wine expert and editor of the wine blog regularwino.com, commented:
"Before the tasting, I had high expectations of airlines such as Emirates as I know they invest heavily in their on 
board food and drink - but I was pleasantly surprised by how well the budget airlines fared."
"While these results certain indicate which appear to be the majorities' preferred wines, it is worth noting that the 
drinking conditions are different at 30,000 feet - your taste buds are dulled, the wine may not be room temperature 
and the reduced amount of fresh oxygen in the pressurised cabin means your wine won't breathe in quite the same 
way as it would on the ground. Airlines have to take all of this into account when deciding which wines to offer 
customers on board."
The tasting panel was made up of 10 judges across seven nationalities and included wine experts Juel Mahonney 
of Wine Women & Song and Peter Adshead, Sommelier at the five-star Rocco Forte            Balmoral Hotel in 
Edinburgh.
Watch a video of the wine tasting and the results here.
Ends
About Skyscanner Skyscanner is a travel search site providing online comparisons on flight prices for millions of 
flights on over 600 airlines, as well car hire, hotels and deals.
Follow Skyscanner on Twitter and            Facebook
CONTACT: PR Contacts
Cass Helstrip / Mary Porter
cass@skyscanner.net / mary@skyscanner.net
07968 255 464 / 0131 252 5353
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 12, 2011
End of Document
Professor Damien Neven, Former Chief Economist at DG Competition, Joining as Senior Academic Consultant 
to the Competition/Antitrust Practice at Charles River A....
Professor Damien Neven, Former Chief Economist at DG Competition, 
Joining as Senior Academic Consultant to the Competition/Antitrust Practice 
at Charles River Associates (CRA)
Business Wire
June 28, 2011 Tuesday 12:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 1401 words
Dateline: BOSTON 
Body
Charles River Associates (NASDAQ: CRAI), a worldwide leader in providing            economic, financial, and 
management consulting services , today announced that Professor Damien Neven, former Chief Economist at DG 
Competition (the European Competition Commission), is joining the firm as a senior academic consultant to CRA's       
     Competition & Antitrust Practice .
"There are few economists and academics in the world who share Professor Damien Neven's knowledge of 
competition issues-from both regulatory and academic standpoints-and we are extremely pleased about his 
decision to become a senior academic consultant to Charles River Associates," said CRA's President and Chief 
Executive Officer Paul Maleh . "Professor Neven is noted for expanding DG Competition's analysis of economic 
issues in competition matters. During his five-year term as Chief Economist at DG Competition, Professor Neven 
advised on a record number of merger notifications and built a remarkable team of economists to preside over 
every major litigation that reached the European Competition Commission during that period. He applies the highest 
standards of expertise to the application of competition economics and enforcement of competition rules, areas he 
has researched and published about extensively, and has addressed the many levels of complexity inherent in 
competition-related matters."
Dr. Steven C. Salop , a Senior Consultant to CRA and Professor of Economics and Law at Georgetown University 
Law Center, said, "Damien Neven's contributions to advancing economic analysis have been important, both at the 
European Competition Commission and in academia.He will provide an invaluable perspective on the review of 
international mergers, international cartels, and dominant firm conduct.I am thrilled to have him as a colleague at 
CRA."
Professor Neven, a distinguished academic economist who has published extensively in applied industrial 
organization and competition policy, was Chief Economist at DG Competition from September 2006 to May 2011. 
During his tenure as Chief Economist, he led the expansion of the Chief Economist Team from 10 to nearly 30 
highly trained economists. He provided direct advice to the Competition Commissioner, assisted in evaluating the 
Professor Damien Neven, Former Chief Economist at DG Competition, Joining as Senior Academic Consultant 
to the Competition/Antitrust Practice at Charles River A....
economic impact of the Commission's proposed actions in the competition field, and provided independent 
guidance on methodological issues of economics and econometrics in the application of EU competition rules. He 
contributed to competition cases, in particular to those involving complex economic issues and quantitative 
analysis, and was involved in a number of key developments in terms of both policy and case assessment. These 
included: the adoption of the Guidelines for the Assessment of Non Horizontal Mergers, with related cases like 
TomTom/Tele Atlas and Google/DoubleClick; the Guidance Paper on the Priorities for the Enforcement of Article 
102, with related cases like Intel and Velux; the development of quantitative methods of investigation, in particular 
for horizontal mergers, that have found extensive application in such cases as Aer Lingus/Ryanair, 
Friesland/Campina, Statoil/Conoco, and Unilever/Sara Lee. Professor Neven also promoted the adoption of the 
Guidelines on the Submission and Evaluation of Economic Evidence, which sets a framework and standards for the 
development of economic analysis in all cases. In addition, he oversaw the economic analysis in such high-profile 
cases as Oracle/Sun, BHP Billiton/Rio Tinto, Mastercard, Visa, and Olympic/Aegean.
Prior to his appointment as Chief Economist at DG Competition, Professor Neven advised parties on such cases as 
Airtours/First Choice, Volvo/Scania, and Tetra Laval/Sidel. Currently, Professor Neven is a professor of economics 
at the Graduate Institute at the University of Geneva, which he joined in 2001. He previously taught at INSEAD, the 
European College in Brugge, and the University of Lausanne. He has focused his most recent research on antitrust 
law and economics, including in such areas as the coordination of antitrust policies across jurisdictions, merger 
control, and the antitrust analysis of sports competitions. Professor Neven holds a PhD degree in Economics from 
Nuffield College, Oxford, and a "Maîtrise" in Economics and a "Licence" in Geography, both from Catholic 
University of Louvain, Belgium.
About CRA's Antitrust & Competition Economic Consulting Practice
CRA's competition economists provide economic analysis and testimony in competition matters around the world. 
Many have served in government antitrust agencies and are members of premier academic, economic, and law 
faculties. Their experience extends to many industries, including telecommunications, healthcare, energy, computer 
hardware/software, retailing, entertainment, transportation, natural resources, sports, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, 
financial services, and consumer products.
About Charles River Associates (CRA)
Charles River Associates® is a global consulting firm specializing in litigation, regulatory, and financial consulting, 
and management consulting . CRA advises clients on economic and financial matters pertaining to litigation and 
regulatory proceedings, and guides corporations through critical business strategy and performance-related issues. 
Since 1965, clients have engaged CRA for its unique combination of functional expertise and industry knowledge, 
and for its objective solutions to complex problems. Headquartered in Boston, CRA has offices throughout North 
America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. Detailed information about Charles River Associates, a registered 
trade name of CRA International, Inc., is available at            http://www.crai.com .
Statements in this press release concerning the benefits to CRA regarding the addition of Professor Damien Neven, 
the future business, operating results, and financial condition of the Company and statements using the terms 
"anticipates," "believes," "expects," "should," or similar expressions, are "forward-looking" statements as defined in 
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based upon management's current 
expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties. Information contained in these forward-
looking statements is inherently uncertain and actual performance and results may differ materially due to many 
important factors. Such factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking 
statements made by the Company include, among others, the Company's restructuring costs and attributable 
annual cost savings, changes in the Company's effective tax rate, share dilution from the Company's stock-based 
compensation, dependence on key personnel, attracting and retaining qualified consultants, dependence on 
outside experts, utilization rates, factors related to its acquisitions, including integration of personnel, clients, offices, 
and unanticipated expenses and liabilities, the risk of impairment write downs to the Company's intangible assets, 
including goodwill, if the Company's enterprise value declines below certain levels, risks associated with 
Professor Damien Neven, Former Chief Economist at DG Competition, Joining as Senior Academic Consultant 
to the Competition/Antitrust Practice at Charles River A....
acquisitions it may make in the future, risks inherent in international operations, the performance of NeuCo, 
changes in accounting standards, rules and regulations, changes in the law that affect its practice areas, 
management of new offices, the potential loss of clients, the ability of customers to terminate the Company's 
engagements on short notice, dependence on the growth of the Company's business consulting practice, the 
unpredictable nature of litigation-related projects, the ability of the Company to integrate successfully new 
consultants into its practice, general economic conditions, intense competition, risks inherent in litigation, and 
professional liability. Further information on these and other potential factors that could affect the Company's 
financial results is included in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 
Company cannot guarantee any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievement. The Company 
undertakes no obligation to update any of its forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
CONTACT: Charles River Associates
Andrea Goodman, 617-425-3333
Director of Communications
or
Sharon Merrill Associates, Inc.
Jim Buckley, 617-542-5300
Executive Vice President
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 29, 2011
End of Document
TGold Online Treasury Management Named Best Irish Cloud Start Up 2011
TGold Online Treasury Management Named Best Irish Cloud Start Up 2011
Business Wire
June 23, 2011 Thursday 9:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Financial Editors; Technology Editors
Length: 274 words
Dateline: DUBLIN & LONDON 
Body
TGold, the online treasury management solution developed by Salmon Software, has won the EuroCloud Ireland 
Best Start Up Award 2011. The company will go forward to the overall EuroCloud 2011 European Awards.
"We are 20 years in the treasury management business but have invested almost £500,000 in our first cloud based 
treasury management solution under the TGold brand," commented John Byrne, CEO, Salmon Software . "This 
award is a fantastic endorsement for the product."
EuroCloud is the European organisation for cloud computing and SaaS.The EuroCloud Awards programme aims to 
promote innovation and the best SaaS products across Europe.
"On behalf of EuroCloud, we are delighted to be making the award for the 'Best Start Up' in the Irish cloud 
computing software space to TGold Treasury Management. They will now go on to compete with all the other award 
winners at this year's EuroCloud Congress in Luxembourg, and we wish them the best of luck,'' commented Noel 
Shannon, Director, EuroCloud .
TGold allows businesses to automate, manage and increase the accuracy of its foreign exchange transactions by 
making payments in local and foreign currencies, book money market and FX trades, access management reports 
on currency positions and balances as well as providing an accurate audit trail of trades and payment instructions.
Founded in 1985, Salmon specialises in foreign exchange and treasury management software for blue chip 
international companies including Fexco, Ryanair and Securitas. T Gold is its first cloud computing offering.
Ends
CONTACT: Press queries to:
Kerri Crowley, Simpson FT PR
Email: kerri@simpsonftpr.ie
Tel: +353 1 260 5300
http://www.businesswire.com
TGold Online Treasury Management Named Best Irish Cloud Start Up 2011
Load-Date: June 24, 2011
End of Document
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc in Travel and Tourism - In 1H 2011 Ryanair Revenues Increased 
by 21% & Profits have Grown by 26%
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc in Travel and Tourism - In 1H 
2011 Ryanair Revenues Increased by 21% & Profits have Grown by 26%
Business Wire
June 22, 2011 Wednesday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 351 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/1eacaf/ryanair_holdings_p ) has announced 
the addition of the "            Ryanair Holdings Plc in Travel and Tourism (World) " report to their offering.
Ryanair is the largest low-cost carrier in terms of passengers carried in Europe with a strong focus on short-haul, 
high-frequency, point-to-point, low-fare service. In 2011 Ryanair registered improved financial results with revenues 
increasing by 21% and profits growing by 26%, to reach EUR401 million. 2010 was a particularly taxing year for 
Ryanair due to a number of external factors affecting its business, e.g. closure of the European airspace and the 
introduction of air taxes.
The Ryanair Holdings Plc in Travel and Tourism (World) Company Profile offers detailed strategic analysis of the 
company's business, examining its performance in the Travel and Tourism market. The report examines company 
shares by region, financial performance, its marketing strategies, challenges from the competition and future 
prospects. Use it to understand opportunities and threats facing the business and the factors driving success.
Product coverage: Car Rental, Demand Factors, Health and Wellness Tourism, Tourism Flows Domestic, Tourism 
Flows Inbound, Tourism Flows Outbound, Tourism Receipts and Expenditure, Tourist Attractions, Transportation, 
Travel Accommodation, Travel Retail.
Data coverage: market sizes (historic and forecasts), company shares, brand shares and distribution data.
Why buy this report?
•
Get a detailed picture of the Travel And Tourism market;
•
Pinpoint growth sectors and identify factors driving change;
•
Understand the competitive environment, the market's major players and leading brands;
•
Use five-year forecasts to assess how the market is predicted to develop.
To 
view 
the 
reports 
full 
table 
of 
contents 
and 
for 
more 
information, 
please 
visit 
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/1eacaf/ryanair_holdings_p
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc in Travel and Tourism - In 1H 2011 Ryanair Revenues Increased 
by 21% & Profits have Grown by 26%
Source: Euromonitor International
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 23, 2011
End of Document
Cybercom Group: More Than Half of Travel Sites Too Slow for Visitors
Cybercom Group: More Than Half of Travel Sites Too Slow for Visitors
Business Wire
June 9, 2011 Thursday 8:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Online Writers; Business Editors; Travel Writers
Length: 557 words
Dateline: STOCKHOLM 
Body
Regulatory News:
Cybercom Group (STO:CYBE)
Over 50 percent of travel sites take so long to load that they lose the attention of customers who will go off to the 
next site. SAS, Ryanair and Travelpartner are among the slowest, according to a study of more than 30 popular 
travel sites performed by Cybercom using American Keynote Systems' leading monitoring services.
"How long it takes for consumers to load a web site is crucial for whether customers make a purchase or move on 
to a competitor's site," says Roger Kervén, Nordic manager at Keynote Systems, a leading mobile and Internet 
cloud monitoring firm. "One of three customers disappears due to poor performance only."
This is particularly true for e-commerce and travel sites. Visitors begin to lose interest after only two seconds, and 
after three seconds, 40% of customers leave the site, according to Forrester Consulting's latest analysis of online 
purchasing behaviour.
Cybercom has therefore studied how long it takes for a consumer to load some 30 popular travel sites. In this study, 
over half of the sites, 19 of 34, take more than three seconds to load. And differences between sites are massive. 
Solresor, the slowest, clocks in at almost 9 seconds. SAS, Ryanair, and the popular Travelpartner also rank among 
the slowest, while Flygpoolen and Allaflygbiljetter are amid the fastest. After just one second, these sites have 
loaded and visitors are ready to start shopping.
"The big differences between sites for travel consumers are mainly because many of the sites have not optimized 
their content for quick response times," says Per-Anders Rangsjö, the web performance expert responsible for the 
Cybercom study. "On several sites we also see a capacity problem. Response times increase during peak visiting 
times during the day."
Cybercom measured the average loading time from five locations around the Nordics. Measurements were taken 
continuously at 15-minute intervals between 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. during a three week period in May with monitoring 
services from Keynote Systems.
Cybercom Group: More Than Half of Travel Sites Too Slow for Visitors
"We see that visitors require sites to be faster to stay and shop," says Mats Frisk, business area manager for 
Internet Services at Cybercom. "Meanwhile, the web is becoming an increasingly important sales and 
communications channel."
About CybercomThe Cybercom Group is a high-tech consultancy that offers global sourcing for end-to-end 
solutions. The Group established itself as a world-class supplier in these segments: security, portal solutions, 
mobile services, and embedded systems. Thanks to its extensive industry and operations experience, Cybercom 
offers strategic and technological expertise to these markets: telecom, industry, media, public sector, retail, and 
banking and financial services. The Group employs 1,800 persons and runs projects worldwide. Cybercom has 25 
offices in 10 countries. Since 1999, Cybercom's share has been quoted on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange. 
The company was launched in 1995. Find out more at: www.cybercom.com .
This information was brought to you by Cision http://www.cisionwire.com
CONTACT: Cybercom Group
Per-Anders Rangsjö, web performance expert
+4670663 94 02
or
Mats Frisk, business area manager Internet Services
+46706200 324
or
Keynote Systems
Roger Kervén, Nordic manager
+46735 17 70 02
or
Cybercom Group
Anna Trane, Press and PR manager
+46 708 84 74 69
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 10, 2011
End of Document
City Index Company Reporting Calendar 23rd May 2011
City Index Company Reporting Calendar 23rd May 2011
Business Wire
May 23, 2011 Monday 5:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Financial Editors
Length: 393 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Spread betting provider City Index ( http://www.cityindex.co.uk/ ) publishes a company reporting calendar every 
Friday to identify the major UK and US trading announcements each week. Everything from quarterly results to 
AGMs are included, so you can use the companies reporting calendar to support your background market research. 
Here are the major announcements facing the            spread betting and CFD trading markets in the week 
beginning 23rd May 2011.
Monday23rd May 2011
RYANAIR HOLDINGS - FINAL
Tuesday24th May 2011
BIG YELLOW GROUP - PRELIM
CABLE AND WIRELESS WORLDWIDE - FINAL
DE LA RUE - PRELIM
HOMESERVE - PRELIM
MARKS & SPENCER GROUP - PRELIM
Wednesday25th May 2011
CALEDONIA INVESTMENTS - PRELIM
JJB SPORTS - PRELIM
SPORTINGBET - Q3
COSTCO WHOLESALE GROUP - Q3
City Index Company Reporting Calendar 23rd May 2011
POLO RALPH LAUREN - Q4
Thursday26th May 2011
BURBERRY GROUP - PRELIM
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST - H1
MAN GROUP - PRELIM
PAYPOINT - PRELIM
H.J.HEINZ COMPANY - Q4
TIFFANY&CO - Q1
Friday27th May 2011
BRITVIC - H1
SEVERN TRENT - Q4
To keep your finger on the financial pulse, follow the City Index market analysis section with insights from trading 
experts Sandy Jadeja and Joshua Raymond at:
http://www.cityindex.co.uk/market-analysis/
You can also test your market knowledge without risking to your capital, with a free City Index spread betting demo 
account at:
http://www.cityindex.co.uk/learn-to-trade/demo-account.aspx
Spread betting and CFD trading are leveraged products which can result in losses greater than your initial deposit. 
Ensure you fully understand the risks.
About City Index:
Today more and more individual traders are discovering the benefits of derivatives, and many of them are 
discovering them through a City Index trading platform.
As a group, we transact in excess of 1.5 million trades every month for individuals in over 50 countries worldwide. 
We provide access to a wide range of instruments including margined foreign exchange, CFDs and, in the UK,            
financial spread betting .
We constantly look to improve the performance of our platforms and expand the range of services we provide. The 
result is that our customers benefit from innovative trading tools with transparent pricing, competitive spreads, and a 
high standard of customer service and support. Visit http://www.cityindex.co.uk/ for more information.
CONTACT: City Index
Joshua Raymond
+44(0)20-7107-7002
joshua.raymond[at]cityindex.co.uk
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 26, 2011
City Index Company Reporting Calendar 23rd May 2011
End of Document
Ryanair Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
Ryanair Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
Business Wire
May 17, 2011 Tuesday 12:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 529 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS, Inc.") is pleased to announce the successful implementation of its 
state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting system - airRM - at Ryanair.
"I am extremely proud of the team who successfully provided implementation and training in such a short amount of 
time," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS, Inc. "It's a testament to the crew at both RMS Inc. and Ryanair that we 
were able to install airRM, load years of historical data, complete training for users, and go live - all within two 
weeks of signing contracts."
"Ryanair selected airRM after an evaluation process involving a number of other vendors. We were impressed with 
the comprehensive range of reporting and analysis tools within the system and the speed with which ideas are 
turned into working features by the team at RMS Inc.," said Ciaran Brannigan, Head of Revenue Management at 
Ryanair. "We implemented the system successfully within a very short period of time and are very pleased with the 
transition. We received great assistance from RMS Inc. to ensure our data migration and training was completed 
swiftly and the on-going support has been superb in helping us to get the most out of the system from day one. 
airRM gives us the right yield management platform to support us as we continue to grow profitably in the coming 
years."
About Ryanair
Ryanair is the World's favorite airline and operates more than 1,400 flights per day from 44 bases and 1100+ low 
fare routes across 27 countries, connecting 160 destinations. Ryanair operates a fleet of 250 new Boeing 737-800 
aircraft with firm orders for a further 64 new aircraft (before taking account of planned disposals), which will be 
delivered over the next 2 years. Ryanair currently has a team of more than 8,000 people and expects to carry 
approximately 73.5 million passengers in the current fiscal year.
More information about Ryanair may be found at www.ryanair.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS, Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
Ryanair Goes Live with airRM Revenue Management System
customer service has prompted airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Transavia (The Netherlands), Jetstar (Australia), 
and Ryanair (Ireland) to choose RMS, Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS, Inc. is headquartered in 
Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS, Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS, Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 18, 2011
End of Document
TGold to Launch New Cloud Based Treasury Management Solution at ACT Annual Conference
TGold to Launch New Cloud Based Treasury Management Solution at ACT 
Annual Conference
Business Wire
May 9, 2011 Monday 10:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Software Writers
Length: 424 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
TGold, a new cloud computing treasury management solution, will be launched in the UK this week at the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers' Annual Conference in Liverpool. TGold is aimed at any organisation that 
needs to manage foreign exchange or money market transactions.
TGold , a new online treasury management solution, was developed by Salmon Software following an investment of 
almost £500,000. Salmon, which has specialised in treasury management solutions for 25 years, works with 
international blue chip corporates including Ryanair, Securitas and Fexco. TGold is its first cloud computing 
offering.
"In the past such a system would have cost businesses a six figure investment in hardware, software and 
implementation. This is now available on a cloud based subscription model with no other costs which means 
companies of all sizes can now better manage their forex transactions," commented John Byrne CEO, Salmon 
Software.
TGold is a treasury management system that has been developed on the industry leading salesforce.com cloud 
platform. It allows businesses to automate, manage and increase the accuracy of its foreign exchange transactions 
by making payments in local and foreign currencies, book money market and FX trades, access management 
reports on currency positions and balances as well as providing an accurate audit trail of trades and payment 
instructions.
TGold ( www.tgoldsoftware.com ) is offering a 30 day free trial to companies who want to manage their Treasury 
activity more effectively.
TGold, which comes with remote iPhone verification, was designed to minimise risk and ensure greater accuracy. It 
helps corporate treasurers by creating a structure around their basic day-to-day foreign exchange and money 
market dealings.
"Spreadsheet-based solutionsare no longer considered acceptable as a reliable long-term treasury management 
tool," added John Byrne. "There is increased pressure on corporate treasurers due to a general worldwide move 
TGold to Launch New Cloud Based Treasury Management Solution at ACT Annual Conference
towards improved corporate governance and the growing insistence by accounting firms for clients to conduct their 
treasury processing in a fully auditable environment."
He added that apart from cost, a driver of more accurate, auditable and reliable treasury management solutions 
would be the increased urgency from the International Accounting Standards Board, the standard settings body, 
regarding the early implementation of IFRS 9 to replace the existing standard IAS 39.
ends
CONTACT: Simpson Financial & Technology PR Kerri Crowley
T: + 353 1 260 5300
kerri@simpsonftpr.ie
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 10, 2011
End of Document
Ryanair Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Ryanair Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
Business Wire
April 5, 2011 Tuesday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 417 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Revenue Management Systems, Inc. ("RMS Inc.") is pleased to announce that it has been selected to 
provideRyanair with state-of-the-art revenue management, inventory control, and reporting tools. Ryanair has 
chosenairRM, the innovative revenue management software developed by RMS Inc., to help it identify sales 
opportunities and maximize passenger revenues. TheairRMsoftware allows airlines to closely control pricing and 
analyze performance through a robust suite of features.
"We are pleased that Ryanair has selected airRM as their revenue management solution and we welcome them 
into our expanding family of airline customers," said Scott Schade, CEO of RMS Inc. "We look forward to working 
closely with them as they continue their amazing story of success."
About Ryanair
Ryanair currently operates more than 1,400 flights per day from its 44 bases and offers over 1100 low fare routes 
throughout 27 countries and connecting 160 destinations. Ryanair's fleet consists of 250 new Boeing 737-800 
aircraft with firm orders for an additional 64 new aircraft to be delivered over the next 2 years. Ryanair has a team of 
more than 8,000 employees and carried over 72.7 million passengers in the year 2010.
More information about Ryanair may be found at www.ryanair.com .
About Revenue Management Systems, Inc. and airRM
RMS Inc. is a privately held company founded in 1996 that specializes inthedesign, development and support of 
innovative revenue management software solutions.The combination of superior software and personalized 
customer service has prompted forward-thinking airlines such as Westjet (Canada), Transavia (The Netherlands), 
Jetstar (Australia), and Ryanair (Ireland) to choose RMS Inc. as their revenue management partner.RMS Inc. is 
headquartered in Seattle, Washington (USA).
airRMwas developed by RMS Inc. in cooperation with a number of the most successful new generation airlines in 
the world.The result is a revenue management system that is broad in feature and function yet focused on helping 
users take full advantage of available information in order to make better, more informed, more profitable 
decisions.In addition to the features and functions expected from a traditional system,airRMprovides a new 
Ryanair Selects airRM as Its Revenue Management System
perspective in airline revenue management with groundbreaking tools not available in any other system on the 
market today.
More information about airRM and RMS Inc. may be found at www.revenuemanagement.com .
CONTACT: Revenue Management Systems, Inc.
Martin Kaduc, +1-206-518-5198
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 6, 2011
End of Document
Bloomberg Television Goes 'Eye To Eye' with Business Visionaries; - New Series Features Interviews on the 
London Eye -
Bloomberg Television Goes 'Eye To Eye' with Business Visionaries; - New 
Series Features Interviews on the London Eye -
Business Wire
March 28, 2011 Monday 4:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; TV Writers
Length: 534 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
This Monday, March 28th at 8:00 pm/GMT, Bloomberg Television anchor Francine Lacqua (@flacqua) meets 
billionaire Sir Philip Green 135 meters up in the sky on "Eye To Eye," a new series on Bloomberg Television 
program shot on location in London inside the world's most iconic Ferris wheel, the London Eye. Hosted by 
Francine Lacqua, each episode of "Eye To Eye" features a new conversation with a self-made billionaire, 
entrepreneur or lifestyle icon, riding with Lacqua around the highest observation wheel in the world. In the premiere 
episode, Lacqua speaks with Sir Philip Green, founder of the famous retailer Topshop and known for his work with 
iconic supermodel Kate Moss.
"'Eye To Eye' captures the kind of conversations you don't have in a restaurant or boardroom," said Lacqua. "By 
bringing guests like Christian Louboutin, Sir Philip Green and Bianca Jagger to an unexpected venue like the 
London Eye, the show offers a whole new perspective on what makes these talented individuals such a powerful 
force in their fields."
The half-hour program "Eye To Eye" airs Monday evenings at 8:00 pm GMT on Bloomberg Television, with 
additional repeats on Wednesday and Friday evenings and weekends. The first six episodes will air Monday, March 
28 through Monday, May 2, 2011. This season, "Eye To Eye" will feature conversations with luxury shoe designer 
Christian Louboutin (April 4); Michael O'Leary, one of Ireland's wealthiest business leaders and CEO of the low-cost 
airline Ryanair (April 11); Sir Martin Sorrell, CEO of WPP Group, one of the world's leading communications and 
advertising companies (April 18th); Bianca Jagger, social and human rights advocate (April 25); and Margherita 
Missoni, fashion icon and brand ambassador for her family's famous Italian luxury brand, Missoni (May 2). Air dates 
and times in the U.S. may differ. To check air dates and time for "Eye to Eye" in the U.S., please visit 
www.bloomberg.com/tv
Bloomberg Television can be seen in the U.K. on Sky Channel 502, Freesat Channel 208 and Virgin Media 
Channel 609. For more information, visit http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/ .
About Bloomberg Television
Bloomberg Television Goes 'Eye To Eye' with Business Visionaries; - New Series Features Interviews on the 
London Eye -
Bloomberg Television is the only truly global business news channel, reaching more than 250 million homes around 
the world from the network's studios in New York, London and Hong Kong. The network provides breaking news 
coverage and analysis of the people, companies and ideas that move the markets. For more information on 
Bloomberg Television, please visit http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/ and follow us on Twitter (            @BloombergTV ) 
and            Facebook .
About Bloomberg
Bloomberg is the world's most trusted source of information for financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg 
combines innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and display and distribution capabilities, to 
deliver critical information via the Bloomberg Professional service and multimedia platforms. Bloomberg's media 
properties span television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the world's largest news organizations with 
more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.
CONTACT: Bloomberg LP
Jocelyn Austin, +1-212-617-3578
jbaustin@bloomberg.net
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 29, 2011
End of Document
BA and Virgin Atlantic Give Boost to British Airlines in Skyscanner Poll It's official; according to a recent study 
by Skyscanner, British Airways really is the....
BA and Virgin Atlantic Give Boost to British Airlines in Skyscanner Poll; It's 
official; according to a recent study by Skyscanner, British Airways really is 
the world's favourite airline. Or at least one of them.
Business Wire
March 16, 2011 Wednesday 10:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 455 words
Dateline: EDINBURGH, Scotland 
Body
The latest poll by flight comparison site Skyscanner.net shows that despite a recent bout of bad press for BA due to 
strike threats, the airline is still regarded very highly by travellers, having been voted top in two out of three 
categories.
The opinions of over 600 international travellers were collected on which airlines they believe are best for service, 
reliability and family travel. Fellow British airline, Virgin Atlantic, equalled its rival in the poll, whilst Emirates and 
Singapore Airlines were also voted favourites amongst Skyscanner users.
When it came to reliability, BA, Virgin Atlantic and Emirates were all voted joint first, followed by Singapore Airlines 
and Qantas. Perhaps a surprise to some was the presence of low cost airlines easyJet and Ryanair in the top ten 
which ranked above many scheduled airlines. However, the results highlight the difference between the public 
perception of punctuality and actual punctuality as recorded by the Civil Airlines Authority. Data from the CAA 
places bmi and flybe at the top of the 'on time' charts, yet neither of these airlines made the top ten in the 
Skyscanner poll.
Virgin Atlantic, which offers kids' TV channels, Nintendo games, kids' meals and an entertainment pack, was voted 
the top choice for families followed by BA and Emirates.
Emirates, which also took the top spot in a recent Skyscanner poll on airline food, was voted best for service along 
with BA.
Gareth Williams, Skyscanner CEO, commented:
"It's great to see that British Airlines are still held in very high regard by the flying public, which is certainly 
something to be proud of. Passengers nowadays have a huge choice of airlines to travel with and, although price is 
probably the main deciding factor, we know that it is not the only influence; service, reliability and facilities play their 
part too and so it is important for airlines to develop customer loyalty by ensuring they offer a superior product to 
that of their competitors."
BA and Virgin Atlantic Give Boost to British Airlines in Skyscanner Poll It's official; according to a recent study 
by Skyscanner, British Airways really is the....
Best for Reliability
Best for Families
Best for Service
1. Virgin Atlantic
1. Virgin Atlantic
1. BA
1. BA
2. BA
1. Emirates
1. Emirates
3. Emirates
3. Singapore Airlines
4. Singapore Airlines
4. Thomas Cook
4. Virgin Atlantic
5. Qantas
5. Qantas
5. Cathy Pacific
6. easyJet
6. Singapore Airlines
6. KLM
7. KLM
7. easyJet
7. Qantas
8. Lufthansa
8. KLM
8. Qatar Airways
9. Ryanair
9. American Airlines
9. Thai Airways
10. Cathay Pacific
10. Cathay Pacific
10. easyJet
About Skyscanner
Skyscanner is a travel search site providing online comparisons on flight prices for over 670,000 routes and on over 
600 airlines, including flights to Dublin as well car hire, deals and holidays.
CONTACT: Skyscanner
Cass Helstrip/ Mary Porter
cass@skyscanner.net
mary@skyscanner.net
07968 255 464 / 0131 252 5353
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 17, 2011
End of Document
Ryanair Delivers World's 1st Free Mobile Roaming 1Million Free 'Received Call' Minutes from MAXROAM
Ryanair Delivers World's 1st Free Mobile Roaming; 1Million Free 'Received 
Call' Minutes from MAXROAM
Business Wire
February 14, 2011 Monday 9:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Online Writers; Telecommunications Writers
Length: 388 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Ryanair, the world's favourite airline, today (14th Feb) launched the world's first free mobile phone roaming service, 
in conjunction with Maxroam , which allows passengers who travel on Ryanair's guaranteed lowest fares to no 
longer pay for receiving mobile calls and SMS messages when they travel abroad.
Ryanair's 78 million passengers can continue to save when making calls and sending SMS messages (or mobile 
data) with a Maxroam SIM card, which provides a fixed rate of just 29c per minute to make calls and just 9c to send 
standard text/SMS messages, across 43 European countries.
As part of its exclusive deal with Maxroam, Ryanair released one million free Maxroam 'received call' roaming 
minutes to new and existing customers.
Ryanair's Sinead Finn said:
"Ryanair delivers the guaranteed lowest fares and with Maxroam we also deliver an unbeatable mobile phone 
roaming service which allows passengers to receive free calls and SMS messages when abroad, for the first time. 
Ryanair's 78 million passengers can also benefit from the cheapest roaming rates in Europe when making calls and 
sending SMS messages, helping passengers to save even more with Ryanair."
Maxroam's Kieran Sexton said:
"Maxroam products dramatically reduce customers' mobile roaming costs when travelling across Europe. Calls are 
40% cheaper than existing European rates and Ryanair passengers can buy a Maxroam SIM, which includes 
(EURO)20 call credit, for just (EURO)10 on www.ryanair.com . Maxroam SIM cards can be used anywhere in the 
world, in a standard GSM mobile phone while iPad and iPhone SIM cards are also available to allow all passengers 
to save even more with Ryanair."
Ends
MAXROAM Ltd
Ryanair Delivers World's 1st Free Mobile Roaming 1Million Free 'Received Call' Minutes from MAXROAM
MAXROAM is a comprehensive global mobile communications service which was developed to remove the 
complexity when travelling with mobile communications. We can offer roaming charges that are up to 70% less than 
domestic operators removing the fear factor when using your mobile abroad. We also offer a range of mobile travel 
accessories on our online store. We have partner agreements with first class operators ensuring top quality voice 
calls and SMS in 230+ countries and principalities and data in 200+ countries.
CONTACT: Edelman
Joe Carmody
Tel. +353-1-6789333
or
Ryanair Ltd
Stephen McNamara
Tel: +353-1-8121212
or
MAXROAM Tel: +353 872049121
pat@Maxroam.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 15, 2011
End of Document
liligo.com:On-Line Travel Searches - Summary of 2010 and trends for 2011
liligo.com:On-Line Travel Searches - Summary of 2010 and trends for 2011
Business Wire
January 28, 2011 Friday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2011 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers; Transportation Writers
Length: 429 words
Dateline: PARIS 
Body
Summary 2010
Despite 2010 being a rather terrible year for the tourism industry, airline companies continue to grow and travellers 
continue to adapt by tailoring their trips around natural and/or political events and conflicts.
Certain destinations have seen a significant rise in searches, like London-Paris (+44%). However, searches for 
London-New York City fell (-26%) by the end of 2010 but the Big Apple will never completely stop attracting 
travellers from the UK.
Airline tickets - the most searched routes
London-ParisLondon-New York CityLondon-Bangkok London-Madrid London-Rome            London-Budapest 
London-DublinLondon-MalagaLondon-BarcelonaLondon-Glasgow
Hotel searches
By the end of 2010, it was easy to see that UK travellers love their "city breaks" when booking hotels: Madrid, +54% 
and hotels Rome , +24%, for example.
London           Paris RomeBarcelonaNew York City            Manchester           Edinburgh LeedsMadridAmsterdam
Annual Airline company rankings
Due to rising airfares, low cost airlines are looking more and more attractive to Brits who are on the look out for 
cheap airline tickets .
1-Easyjet2-Ryanair3-British Airways4-KLM Royal Dutch Airlines5-Air France6-Emirates7-Lufthansa8-Swiss9-
Flybe10-Bmi British Midland
Trends for 2011
liligo.com:On-Line Travel Searches - Summary of 2010 and trends for 2011
The beginning of the year is marked by a sharp increase in searches to destinations particularly serviced by low 
cost airlines (Nice +84%, Agadir +17%, Marrakech +9%). On the long-haul side of things, Thailand is attracting 
travellers again. With popularity, however, comes rising prices.
Most desirable destinations for the first half of 2011
1- London-Paris 2-            London-Bangkok 3-London-Madrid4-London-Oslo5-London-New York City6-            
London-Dublin 7-London-Rome8-London-Dubai9-London-Malaga10-London-Johannesburg
About liligo.com:
liligo.com is the first travel search engine to integrate more than 250 sites and allow fast and easy access to all 
available travel solutions ( cheap flights ,            cheap hotels ...). Available in 10 European countries and attracting 
more than 2 million unique visitors per month, liligo.com is a production of Findworks Technologies, a start-up of 40 
people.
In 2010:1. liligo.com doubled its activity2. SNCF Voyages became the majority shareholder3. liligo.com lanched the 
advertising network liligo Travel Network (reaching 23 million unique "travel" visitors in Europe);4. applications for 
iPhone (more than 200,000 downloads) and then iPad;5. a new site that is simpler and faster, complimented by The 
Traveller's Blog .
Sources: searches observed on the search engine liligo.co.uk
CONTACT: Julie Botta, +33(0)155289720
press-uk@liligo.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 29, 2011
End of Document
liligo.com: The Travel Observatory: The Explosion of Low Cost Airlines
liligo.com: The Travel Observatory: The Explosion of Low Cost Airlines
Business Wire
December 17, 2010 Friday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers
Length: 392 words
Dateline: PARIS 
Body
In the last ten years low cost airline companies have completely turned our travel habits inside out. liligo.com has 
integrated these 70 companies into their flight search engine. Today, however, not all travellers are equal when 
faced with a "low cost" offer.
Stacking up low cost airlines
TOP 15 low cost airline companies (Number of routes available)
1-Ryanair
3087
2-Easyjet
1659
3-Air Berlin
1512
4-Vueling
699
5-Flybe
660
6-Wizz Air
530
7-Air Baltic
411
8-Meridiana
395
9-Germanwings
365
10-Pegasus Airlines
311
11-Condor
242
12-Jetairfly
201
13-Air Asia
171
14-FlyNiki
166
15-Transavia
165
TOP 10 airlines departing from the UK (Number of clicks)
1-Easyjet 2-Ryanair3-Flybe4-Wizz Air5-Thomson Airways6-Bmibaby7-Aurigny.com8-Norwegian Air9-Jet210-
Germanwings
liligo.com: The Travel Observatory: The Explosion of Low Cost Airlines
Stacking up countries: Italy leads in low cost service
TOP 5 countries serving the most cities with low cost flights
1-Italy 2-Spain3-Germany4- France 5-United Kingdom
Italy is at the head of the pack with more than 2300 routes available. That's 50% more destination cities than the 
UK.
UK cities do not offer equal low cost service
TOP 10 UK cities (Number of cities accessible by low cost airlines)
1-London
648
2-Manchester
152
3-Birmingham
108
4-Bristol
73
5-Liverpool
65
6-Glasgow
61
7-Leeds
56
8-Edinburgh
54
9-Belfast
52
10-Nottingham
40
The most accessible European cities with low cost airlines
TOP 15 cities (Number of routes to the city)
1-London
452
2-Paris
421
3-Barcelona
316
4-Rome
298
5-Milan
252
6-Madrid
238
7-Berlin
195
8-Palma de Majorque
174
9-Brussels
171
10-Malaga
155
11-Bucharest
142
12-Amsterdam
130
13-Alicante
114
14-Vienna
112
15-Ibiza
110
Low cost flight prices
Route
Minimum price 
((EURO))1
Average price 
((EURO))
Airline company
London Paris
48
106
Easyjet
London Edinburgh
45
86
Easyjet
London Amsterdam
51
100
Easyjet
London Dublin
12
59
Ryanair
liligo.com: The Travel Observatory: The Explosion of Low Cost Airlines
London Madrid
28
142
Ryanair
London Budapest
48
91
Wizz Air
Manchester Pisa
45
86
Ryanair
Manchester Geneva
55
70
Easyjet
Glasgow Belfast
54
68
Ryanair
Glasgow London
12
45
Ryanair
1 Flight prices (round trip) found on liligo.com from July-October in 2010
About liligo.com
liligo.com is the first travel search engine to integrate more than 250 sites and allows travellers to access travel 
solutions easily from all corners of the web, sorted and presented in a cohesive and objective manner. Available in 
10 domains, liligo.com is a product of Findworks Technologies, an enterprise of 40 people.
CONTACT: Julie Botta
press-uk@liligo.com
+33(0)155289720
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 18, 2010
End of Document
liligo.com: Cheap Weekend Travel Ideas: The Most Beautiful Christmas Markets
liligo.com: Cheap Weekend Travel Ideas: The Most Beautiful Christmas 
Markets
Business Wire
November 16, 2010 Tuesday 3:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 386 words
Dateline: PARIS 
Body
liligo.com, the travel search engine, has uncovered the best weekend travel deals of the season for visiting the most 
beautiful Christmas Markets in Europe. Family, friends and loved ones won't be able to resist a quick holiday 
getaway at these prices!
From mid-November until late December, European cities and villages alike with Christmas markets, open their 
doors to delight travellers from around the world.
The market booths filled with toys inspire the young and the smells of traditional foods cooking over open fires 
tempt the taste buds of the old. For many travellers, these Christmas markets are the perfect reason to search for 
travel deals to Europe.
Many of these markets can be reached by combining cheap flights from both low cost and regular airlines 
companies with            cheap hotels . Cheap weekend getaways are sure to take the stress off of Christmas 
shopping, so enjoy!
Budapest, Hungary
Flight London Budapest from 10/12 until 12/12
92£ per person with Wizz Air
Hotel Budapest 2*
From 13£/night/room
Prague, Czech Republic
Flight London Prague from 17/12 until 19/12
126£ per person with Wizz Air
liligo.com: Cheap Weekend Travel Ideas: The Most Beautiful Christmas Markets
Hotel Prague 3*
From 14£/night/room
Berlin, Germany
Flight London Berlin from 09/12 until 13/12
85£ per person with Easyjet
Hotel Berlin 3*
From 19£/night/room
Brussels, Belgium
Flight London Brussels from 09/12 until 13/12
114£ per person with Brussels Air
Hotel Brussels 3*
From 40£/night/room
Copenhagen, Denmark
Flight London Copenhagen from 16/12 until 20/12
74£ per person with Bmi
Hotel Copenhagen 2*
From 35£/night/room
Vienna, Austria
Flight London Vienna from 10/12 until 12/12
60£ per person with Ryanair
Hotel Vienna 3*
From 22£/night/room
All deals found on www.liligo.co.uk on Nov, 11th 2010. No guarantee on prices.
About liligo.comliligo.com is the first travel search engine to integrate more than 250 sites of which 70 are low cost 
in each search. liligo.com allows travellers to access travel solutions easily from all corners of the web, sorted and 
presented in a cohesive and objective manner. Comprehensive, exhaustive, innovative, objective, liligo.com is 
dedicated to help the user find their holidays and trips simply, the most effectively as possible. Available in 10 
domains, liligo.com is a product of Findworks Technologies, an enterprise of 40 people.
CONTACT: Julie Botta, +33(0)155289720
press-uk@liligo.com
http://www.businesswire.com
liligo.com: Cheap Weekend Travel Ideas: The Most Beautiful Christmas Markets
Load-Date: November 17, 2010
End of Document
Research and Markets: Total In-Flight Broadband Equipment Investment Should Approach Half a Billion Dollars 
Globally by 2013
Research and Markets: Total In-Flight Broadband Equipment Investment 
Should Approach Half a Billion Dollars Globally by 2013
Business Wire
September 21, 2010 Tuesday 2:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 834 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/0d9583/build_it_and_they ) has announced 
the addition of the "            Build It and They Will Come? The In-Flight Broadband Market " report to their offering.
The in-flight broadband market has achieved a remarkable revival over the past several years. Plane deployments 
have skyrocketed from just 25 aircraft in 2008 to an expected 2,000 commercial aircraft by the end of 2010. While 
the installed base of aircraft is approaching a critical mass, the viability of in-flight broadband will be tested over the 
next year. Usage of the service has been disappointingly low, at an estimated 2 percent of available seats. How 
providers respond to current usage challenges could make or break the future of in-flight broadband. This report 
examines the in-flight broadband market, offering unique analysis including:
•
Forecast of planes deployed and installation revenues
•
Discussion of barriers to usage and possible solutions
•
Competitive analysis of leading and emerging in-flight broadband providers including Aircell, OnAir, 
Panasonic, and Row 44
•
Forecast of connects and usage revenues under several model assumptions
•
Analysis of additional revenue opportunities including video and voice services as well as operational, e-
commerce, and advertising revenues.
•
Forecast of in-flight video (DBS and Internet-based) revenues
Executive Summary:
The commitment that airlines are making to providing in-flight broadband has been remarkable. Total in-flight 
broadband equipment investment should approach half a billion dollars globally by 2013, reports In-Stat ( 
http://www.in-stat.com ). In-flight Wi-Fi deployments have moved past the trial stage and are approaching critical 
mass with 2,000 airplanes to be deployed by the end of 2010.
Research and Markets: Total In-Flight Broadband Equipment Investment Should Approach Half a Billion Dollars 
Globally by 2013
In-flight broadband service roll-outs by airlines is not without issues though, says Frank Dickson. With current paid 
take rates for in-flight Wi-Fi service below 2 percent, providers have a lot of work to do to entice passengers to use 
the service. Significant investment has been made in on-board and on-ground infrastructure, and now the market 
will be tested as it tries to get more passengers to use the service.
Recent research by In-Stat found the following:
•
In-Stat is anticipating service revenues of $95 million in 2010.
•
Airlines that have report offering or testing in-flight broadband or live TV include Air Asia, Air AsiaX, Air 
Blue, Air Canada, Air France, AirTran, Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, British Airways, British Midlands 
Airways, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Jazeera Airways, JetBlue, Kingfisher 
Airlines, Northwest, Oman Air, Qantas, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian, Ryanair, Shenzhen Airlines, 
Southwest, TAM Airlines, TAP Portugal, United Airlines, US Airways, Virgin America, and Wataniya 
Airways.
Recent In-Stat research, Build It and They Will Come? The In-Flight Broadband Market (#IN1004767WS), 
examines the market for next generation in-flight entertainment (IFE), with a focus on in-flight broadband services. 
The emphasis of this report is on market potential, usage, business models, and competitive analysis for the in-
flight broadband market. For the purpose of this report, next generation IFE services are segmented by access 
technology (GSM, satellite, air-to-ground) as well as application (voice, video, and data). The report is global in 
scope and includes:
•
Hardware/installation and usage/revenue forecasts.
•
Hardware forecasts include total installation cost.
•
Forecasts provide aggregate and annual deployment numbers.
This research is part of In-Stats Wi-Fi Services service, which provides analysis of the market for Wi-Fi enabled 
equipment and attach rates in PCs, peripherals, consumer electronics, communications, and industrial applications, 
as well as services such as hotspots and in-flight broadband.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Executive Summary
•
Growth Enablers and Opportunities
•
From Then to Now: Current In-Flight Broadband Initiatives
•
Why Now? Market Changes Since Connexion
•
Cost Is a Four Letter Word
•
Penetration of Wi-Fi-Enabled Devices
•
Familiarity with Wi-Fi Access
•
Lower Pricing
•
Technology
•
Connectivity to the Plane
•
In-Flight Broadband Providers
•
Competitive Landscape
•
Business Model
•
Service Suite
•
Partnerships
Research and Markets: Total In-Flight Broadband Equipment Investment Should Approach Half a Billion Dollars 
Globally by 2013
•
Emerging Competitors
•
Service Suite: Leveraging the Network and Driving Revenue
•
Advertising and eCommerce
•
Lessons Learned from the Hotspot Market
•
Business Models
•
Point of Sale versus Wholesale
•
Subsidized Equipment
•
When They Won't Pay, Alternative Revenue Opportunities
•
Airplane Deployment Forecast
•
In-Flight Broadband Equipment Revenues
•
In-Flight Broadband Usage
•
Model Assumption: Fee-Based Model Persists
•
Model Assumption: Gradual Migration to Amenity Offering
•
List of Tables
•
List of Figures
Companies Mentioned:
•
Aircell
•
Panasonic
•
Row44
•
OnAir
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/0d9583/build_it_and_they
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 22, 2010
End of Document
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc - Examining the Company Shares, Financial Performance, 
Marketing Strategies, Challenges & Future Prospects
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc - Examining the Company 
Shares, Financial Performance, Marketing Strategies, Challenges & Future 
Prospects
Business Wire
July 27, 2010 Tuesday 12:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 307 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research 
and 
Markets 
( 
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/c89394/ryanair_holdings_p 
) 
has 
announced the addition of the "            Ryanair Holdings Plc in Travel and Tourism in World " report to their offering.
Ryanair is one of the largest low cost carriers in passengers carried terms in Europe offering some of the lowest 
fares in the industry. It set a precedent by introducing ancillary revenues, a great revenue generator that rival LCCs 
and schedule carriers have embraced alike. As the financial crisis has reduced the appeal of business or premium 
travel, the company is well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that these difficult trading conditions 
have created.
The Ryanair Holdings Plc in Travel and Tourism company profile offers detailed strategic analysis of the company's 
business, examining its performance in the travel and tourism market. The report examines company shares by 
region, financial performance, its marketing strategies, challenges from the competition and future prospects. Use it 
to understand opportunities and threats facing the business and the factors driving success.
Why buy this report?
•
Get a detailed picture of the Travel and Tourism industry;
•
Pinpoint growth sectors and identify factors driving change;
•
Understand the competitive environment, the markets major players and leading brands;
•
Use five-year forecasts to assess how the market is predicted to develop.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Scope of the Report
•
Strategic Evaluation
•
Competitive Positioning
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings Plc - Examining the Company Shares, Financial Performance, 
Marketing Strategies, Challenges & Future Prospects
•
Market Assessment
•
Geographic Opportunities
•
Brand Strategy
•
Operations
•
Recommendations
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/c89394/ryanair_holdings_p
Source: Euromonitor International
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 28, 2010
End of Document
Airlines Worldwide Fly High on Ancillary Services -- 2009 Revenues Jump 43 Percent to $13.5 Billion 
((EURO)11 Billion) Analysis from IdeaWorks, Supported by Ama....
Airlines Worldwide Fly High on Ancillary Services -- 2009 Revenues Jump 43 
Percent to $13.5 Billion ((EURO)11 Billion); Analysis from IdeaWorks, 
Supported by Amadeus, Shows United, American, Delta, Qantas, and 
Ryanair Are Top Ancillary Revenue Earners for 2009
Business Wire
July 21, 2010 Wednesday 4:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 1772 words
Dateline: MADRID & SHOREWOOD, Wis. 
Body
IdeaWorks, the foremost consultancy focused on airline ancillary revenues and Amadeus, a leading travel 
technology partner and transaction processor for the global travel and tourism industry, today announce preliminary 
results of the Amadeus Guide to Ancillary Revenue by IdeaWorks.Findings show the airline industry's ancillary 
revenue tidal wave continued in 2009 with more carriers disclosing millions ? and billions ? in ancillary receipts in 
financial reports. The 43 percent increase over 2008 also reflects new a la carte fees and commission-based 
services.
During 2009 ancillary revenue became a crucial component of the revenue mix for all types of carriers - from major 
to small, worldwide to regional, LCC to full service. The full report of this activity will be available in the autumn 2010 
release of the Amadeus Guide to Ancillary Revenue by IdeaWorks. Early results from an analysis of 2009 financial 
filings made by 96 airlines indicate ancillary revenue increased (EURO)3.32 billion from 2008 to a total of 
(EURO)11 billion ($13.5 billion) for 2009.
These estimates include revenue from a la carte features such as baggage fees and food sold onboard aircraft, 
commissions from the sale of hotel accommodations, car rentals, and travel insurance at airline websites, and 
partner revenue generated by frequent flier programs.
Worldwide Review of Ancillary Revenue - Based on Financial Disclosures
(EURO)11 billion ($13.5 billion)
(EURO)7.68 billion ($10.25 
billion)
Total Annual Result - 2009
Total Annual Result - 2008
2008 results were calculated in euros, re-stated based upon a (EURO)1.0 = $1.33 exchange rate for the period.
2009 results were calculated in euros, re-stated based upon a (EURO)1.0 = $1.23 exchange rate for the period.
Philippe Chérèque, Executive Vice President Commercial, Amadeus, the sponsor of this analysis of ancillary 
revenue and the upcoming 3rd edition of the Guide, commented: "Amadeus is fully committed to helping airlines 
maximize revenues and profits and deliver unmatched levels of customer service with a comprehensive and multi-
Airlines Worldwide Fly High on Ancillary Services -- 2009 Revenues Jump 43 Percent to $13.5 Billion 
((EURO)11 Billion) Analysis from IdeaWorks, Supported by Ama....
channel ancillary services solution." He continues: "This month we have announced major milestones to support 
this initiative, including the launch of our comprehensive EMD solution with Finnair and an extensive pilot of a la 
carte pricing within the travel agency and direct channels with Corsairfly."
Amadeus has three flagship solutions to enable ancillary revenue sales:
•
Amadeus Airline Ancillary Services, which allows airlines to automatically offer and collect fees for all 
ancillary services through any sales channel - direct or indirect. The solution is fully integrated with 
Amadeus' IT offerings, including the Altèa CMS and e-Commerce suite.
•
Amadeus Cross-Sell Ancillary Services, which seamlessly integrates with Airline IT systems to enable 
simple management of cross-sell content such as car, hotel and destination services in conjunction with 
flight bookings.
•
Amadeus EMD, which enables airlines to issue, store, manage and distribute associated and standalone 
Electronic Miscellaneous Documents (EMD), the industry standard fulfilment document for the effective 
sale and management of ancillary services.
IdeaWorks' findings with regards to the current top 10 list of airlines show subtle changes from the 2008 ranking. 
US-based network airlines fill the top three positions courtesy of robust partner revenue from frequent flier programs 
and a stronger emphasis on baggage fees. But revenue from this mature group has stabilized, while the revenue 
produced by lower-ranked carriers has jumped dramatically. The 4th place slot is now held by Qantas at a 25 
percent revenue premium above the same position held by Ryanair in 2008. The annual revenue required to join 
the top 10 club now begins at (EURO)300 million. US Airways and Air Canada are new to the list, displacing 
JetBlue and Emirates.
Top 10 Airlines - Total Ancillary Revenue
Annual Results - 2009
Annual Results - 
2008
(EURO)1,527,310,000
United
(EURO)1
,650,000
,000
Americ
an
(EURO)1,507,750,000
Americ
an
(EURO)1
,200,000
,000
United
(EURO)1,117,120,500
Delta
(EURO)1
,125,000
,000
Delta
(EURO)782,903,000
Qantas
(EURO)6
25,350,2
40
Ryanair
(EURO)663,600,000
Ryanair
(EURO)4
58,622,0
00
Qantas
(EURO)608,796,693
easyJet
(EURO)3
96,468,0
00
easyJet
(EURO)540,589,500
US 
Airway
s
(EURO)2
62,500,0
00
JetBlue
(EURO)534,143,000
Air 
Canad
a
(EURO)2
07,298,1
40
Emirate
s
(EURO)368,869,000
Alaska 
Airlines
(EURO)1
84,888,9
00
TAM 
Airlines
(EURO)356,742,400
TAM 
Airlines
(EURO)1
84,275,0
Alaska 
Airlines
Airlines Worldwide Fly High on Ancillary Services -- 2009 Revenues Jump 43 Percent to $13.5 Billion 
((EURO)11 Billion) Analysis from IdeaWorks, Supported by Ama....
00
Source: Worldwide Review of Ancillary Revenue Statistics from the Amadeus Ancillary Revenue Guide by 
IdeaWorks. Some carrier results were based upon the most recent fiscal year.
Large network carriers can generate huge ancillary revenue numbers. But ancillary revenue success is better 
measured by reviewing activity as a "percentage of revenue" or on a "per passenger" basis.
Spirit Airlines and Tiger Airways joined the "% of total revenue list" for 2009 because the carriers only recently 
disclosed ancillary revenue results. Spirit is a privately held carrier and disclosures are rare and Tiger made 
disclosures for 2009 due to its initial public offering. Eight carriers in the 2008 list scored higher percentages for 
2009. Of the two that dropped off the list, SkyEurope ceased operations and Germanwings was folded into 
Lufthansa Group during 2009.
Top 10 Airlines - Ancillary Revenue as a % of Total Revenue
Annual Results - 2009
Annual 
Results - 
2008
29.2%
Allegia
nt
22.7
%
Allegi
ant
23.9%
Spirit
19.3
%
Ryan
air
22.2%
Ryanair
15.5
%
easyJ
et
19.4%
easyJet
14.8
%
Jet2.c
om
19.4%
Tiger 
Airway
s
14.1
%
Vuelin
g
18.1%
Jet2.co
m
13.0
%
Germ
anwin
gs
14.4%
Aer 
Lingus
11.0
%
Aer 
Lingu
s
13.3%
Alaska 
Airlines
10.3
%
JetBlu
e
13.2%
Flybe
9.8
%
Flybe
13.1%
AirAsia
9.6
%
SkyE
urope
Source: Worldwide Review of Ancillary Revenue Statistics from the Amadeus Ancillary Revenue Guide by 
IdeaWorks. Some carrier results were based upon the most recent fiscal year.
The carriers in this top 10 list pursue a robust ancillary revenue agenda that includes baggage fees, buy-on-board 
cafes, assigned seating fees, and commissions from the sale of hotel accommodations and car rentals. Alaska is 
the only network airline in the list; the carrier has a less aggressive a la carte approach but benefits from powerful 
frequent flier and co-branded card programs.
Overall "per passenger" activity for 2009 clearly increased with top and bottom results better than 2008. Allegiant 
continues to achieve strong growth with a nearly 25 percent increase above 2008 results. UK-based carrier 
Jet2.com generated an amazing 58 percent increase while Qantas posted a spectacular 72 percent jump. A major 
upset occurred with ancillary revenue champ Ryanair falling off the top 10 list and archrival easyJet entering the list 
at the number 10 slot for 2009.
Top 10 Airlines - Ancillary Revenue per Passenger
Annual Results - 2009
Annual Results 
- 2008
(EURO)24.89
Allegia
(EUR
Allegi
Airlines Worldwide Fly High on Ancillary Services -- 2009 Revenues Jump 43 Percent to $13.5 Billion 
((EURO)11 Billion) Analysis from IdeaWorks, Supported by Ama....
nt
O)20.
00
ant
(EURO)22.51
Jet2.co
m
(EUR
O)17.
14
Unite
d
(EURO)22.35
Spirit
(EUR
O)14.
97
Aer 
Lingu
s
(EURO)20.37
Qantas
(EUR
O)14.
75
Ameri
can
(EURO)18.76
United
(EUR
O)14.
28
Jet2.c
om
(EURO)17.23
Air 
Canad
a
(EUR
O)11.
98
JetBlu
e
(EURO)16.72
Aer 
Lingus
(EUR
O)11.
87
Qanta
s
(EURO)16.47
Alaska 
Airlines
(EUR
O)10.
84
Ryan
air
(EURO)14.43
Americ
an
(EUR
O)10.
61
Delta
(EURO)13.47
easyJet
(EUR
O)10.
55
Vuelin
g
Source: Worldwide Review of Ancillary Revenue Statistics from the Amadeus Ancillary Revenue Guide by 
IdeaWorks. Some carrier results were based upon the most recent fiscal year.
By every measure, the ancillary revenue movement is growing. More airlines are switching on a la carte fees and 
disclosing financial activity. Existing practitioners are boosting revenue streams by adding services, testing price 
limits, and becoming better marketers.
The Amadeus Guide to Ancillary Revenue by IdeaWorks will be available for online purchase September 2010 at 
$449 per copy. Order details will be available at www.IdeaWorksCompany.com at a later date. Jay Sorensen will 
speak on the topic of "Moving to Merchandise Methods in the Cabin" at the global Amadeus airline conference 
"Horizons" which will be held in San Francisco, October 13-15, 2010.
Disclosure: IdeaWorks makes every effort to ensure the quality of the information in this report. Before relying on 
the information, readers should obtain any appropriate professional advice relevant to their particular 
circumstances. IdeaWorks cannot guarantee, and assumes no legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, 
currency or completeness of the information.
Notes to the editors
Amadeus is the leading transaction processor and provider of advanced technology solutions for the global travel 
and tourism industry.
Customer groups include travel providers (e.g., airlines, hotels, rail, ferries, etc.), travel sellers (travel agencies and 
websites), and travel buyers (corporations and individual travellers).
The group operates a transaction-based business model and processed more than 670 million billable travel 
transactions in 2009.
Airlines Worldwide Fly High on Ancillary Services -- 2009 Revenues Jump 43 Percent to $13.5 Billion 
((EURO)11 Billion) Analysis from IdeaWorks, Supported by Ama....
Amadeus has central sites in Madrid (corporate headquarters and marketing), Nice (development) and Erding 
(Operations - data processing centre) and regional offices in Miami, Buenos Aires, Bangkok and Dubai. At a market 
level, Amadeus maintains customer operations through 72 local Amadeus Commercial Organisations covering 195 
countries.
Amadeus is listed on the Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao and Valencia stock exchanges and trades under the symbol 
"AMS.MC". For the year ended 31 December 2009, the company reported revenues of EUR 2,461 million and 
EBITDA of EUR 894 million. The Amadeus group employs over 9,300 employees worldwide, with 123 nationalities 
represented at the central offices.
To find out more about Amadeus please http://www.amadeus.com .
To visit the Amadeus Investor Relations centre please http://www.investors.amadeus.com .
About IdeaWorks: IdeaWorks was founded in 1996 as a consulting organization building brands through innovation 
in product, partnership and marketing, and building profits through financial improvement and restructuring. Its 
international client list includes the hotel, airline, marine, railroad, consumer products and health care sectors. 
IdeaWorks specializes in ancillary revenue improvement, brand development, customer research, competitive 
analysis, partner-marketing strategies, cost reduction programs and business restructuring. Learn more at 
www.IdeaWorksCompany.com .
CONTACT: IdeaWorks
Jay Sorensen
414-961-1939
Jay@IdeaworksCompany.com
or
Amadeus
Amadeus North America
Debbie Iannaci
Director, Public Relations
305-499-6448
Cell: 305-498-6005
diannaci@amadeus.com
or
CRT/tanaka for Amadeus North America
Jennifer Lucado
Account Executive
804-675-8176
Cell: 540-871-3996
jlucado@crt-tanaka.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 22, 2010
End of Document
Research and Markets: Looking beyond the Runway: Airlines Innovating with Best Practices While Facing 
Realities
Research and Markets: Looking beyond the Runway: Airlines Innovating 
with Best Practices While Facing Realities
Business Wire
July 21, 2010 Wednesday 4:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 660 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/2d5145/looking_beyond_the ) has 
announced the addition of the "            Looking Beyond the Runway: Airlines Innovating with Best Practices while 
Facing Realities " book to their offering.
The global airline industry, facing significant changes and discontinuity is prompted and forced to deal with a "new 
normal." Who would have imagined a few years ago that:
•
a significant percentage of consumers in the US now prefer to fly low-cost airlines instead of full-service 
airlines because they perceive the product to be better,
•
airlines would generate up to a third of their total income from non-ticket revenue,
•
many low-cost airlines would add complexity to their original simple business models through the 
development of code-share agreements, the use of global distribution systems, and travel agents to 
distribute their seats,
•
Jetstar, a low-cost subsidiary of Qantas, would grow faster and be more profitable than its parent,
•
a survey carried out by Ryanair would show that 42 percent of passengers would be willing to stand on 
short (one hour) flights if they could pay 50 percent less than seated passengers,
•
passengers could pay as little as US$2,000 for a transatlantic Business Class ticket on top-brand airlines,
•
Lufthansa would have ownership in airlines based in Austria, Belgium, Italy, Switzerland, Turkey, the UK, 
and the US, and that it would continue to pursue equity ownership in airlines based in Poland and 
Scandinavia, or
•
the Japanese and Canadian governments would struggle to find different ways to bail out their heretofore 
flag carriers?
To deal with this upcoming "new normal", airlines have to go beyond their short-term circumstantial strategies - they 
need strategic renewal of their ageing business model. In this candidly-written book, Nawal Taneja explains what 
will separate the winners from the losers.
Research and Markets: Looking beyond the Runway: Airlines Innovating with Best Practices While Facing 
Realities
He maintains the leaders will be the airlines that: (1) exploit this crisis-driven change to their best advantage, (2) 
learn to work around the airline-inherent constraints that prevent them from running their businesses just like other 
businesses, (3) learn from successes and failures of other global enterprises, (4) sharpen their business 
intelligence, analytics, and strategic agility, and (5) proactively explore the "pockets of growth" in this emerging-
markets century.
To help airline executives become informed of new competitive games, the author analyzes numerous business 
sectors such as auto, hospitality, retail, technology, and entertainment. For example, relevant lessons can be 
learned from the strategic mistakes made by the US automakers. Likewise, emergent and compelling insights can 
be gained in superior customer experience from Ritz Carlton and Zappos, and in value-creating innovation from 
Cirque du Soleil and Zipcar. The book also features a multitiude of forewords from airlines and related businesses 
to provide readers with multiple perspectives on the changing landscape in the global airline industry.
Nawal Taneja is a career analyst of the global airline industry with wide-ranging experience in the aviation industry, 
academia, and public policy. Encouraged by industry executives, he has written five other books for practitioners in 
the global airline industry, including FASTEN YOUR SEATBELT: The Passenger is Flying the Plane and Flying 
Ahead of the Airplane.
Key Topics Covered:
1 Outlining the Chaos, Evolving Strategies, and the New Normal
2 Learning from Other Struggles: The Auto Industry
3 Learning from Other Successes: The Customer Experience Industry
4 Innovating around Airline Realities
5 Firing on All Cylinders to Stay Ahead
6 Viewing the Changing World Map
7 Flying with Tailwinds against Headwinds
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/2d5145/looking_beyond_the
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 22, 2010
End of Document
Michael Cawley, Deputy Chief Executive of Ryanair , to deliver the opening address at the 2010 Airline Retail 
Conference and identify how Ryanair became "The Go....
Michael Cawley, Deputy Chief Executive of Ryanair, to deliver the opening 
address at the 2010 Airline Retail Conference and identify how Ryanair 
became "The Godfather of Ancillary Revenue"
Business Wire
June 28, 2010 Monday 10:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Travel Editors
Length: 412 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Michael Cawley, Ryanair 's Deputy CEO and Chief Operating Officer, will be the opening speaker at the            
2010 Airline Retail Conference , which will take place on July 20th and 21st at the Sofitel London Heathrow.
Ryanair has been called "The Godfather of Ancillary Revenue" by aviation consultancy IdeaWorks (source: Airline 
Information Ancillary Revenue Guide).
Michael joined Ryanair in 1997 as Chief Financial Officer and Commercial Director, before being appointed COO 
and Deputy CEO in 2003.
Since then, Ryanair's route network has increased from 12 routes to 1100 and its passenger numbers have 
exploded from 3 million to nearly 67 million for the year ending 31 March 2010. Revenues were just shy of (EURO)3 
billion at (EURO)2,988m.
On 1st June, Ryanair announced (EURO)664m of ancillary revenues for the year to March 2010-an incredible 22% 
of the company's overall revenues.
The importance of generating ancillary revenue to inflight retail is one of the key themes of the conference, with 4 of 
the top 5 ancillary revenue earners - AirAsia, easyJet, Ryanair and Vueling - already attending.
Michael Cawley joins fellow ancillary revenue leaders at ARC2010 - easyJet director Warwick Brady and Vueling 
CEO Alex Cruz are also confirmed as speakers. The speaker list also includes executives from flag carriers such as 
Lufthansa, American Airlines and United Airlines.
Event director Alex Vail said "we are delighted Michael is opening ARC2010. He plays a pivotal role in growing 
inflight revenues at Ryanair, and brings a tremendous amount of inflight retail experience and wisdom."
ARC2010 will take place at the Sofitel London Heathrow on 20th and 21st July.
Michael Cawley, Deputy Chief Executive of Ryanair , to deliver the opening address at the 2010 Airline Retail 
Conference and identify how Ryanair became "The Go....
Delegate places at ARC2010 cost £530 (+VAT)
To register, visit http://airlineretail.com
Note to editors
Other speakers at ARC2010:
Warwick Brady, Procurement Director, easyJet; Gyde Brix, Director Marketing, Sales & Cooperations, Lufthansa 
WorldShop GmbH; Julian Carr, Managing Director, bmibaby; Michael Cawley, Deputy Chief Executive and COO, 
Ryanair; Alex Cruz, CEO, Vueling; Pierre Freyssinet, Managing Director, Aeroboutique IR; John Garner, VP 
Purchasing, DFASS; Koos Kruijswijk, Director Inflight Sales, KLM; Bill Lumley, Editor, DFNI; Ann Miller,Manager 
Retail Sales, American Airlines; Dermot Davitt, Deputy Publisher, The Moodie Report
Photos/MultimediaGallery Available: http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=6342198&lang=en
CONTACT: Alex Vail, Event Director
+44 7904 206 940
alex.vail@airlineretail.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Graphic
 
Michael Cawley, Deputy Chief Executive of Ryanair, to deliver the opening address at the 2010 Airline Retail 
Conference and identify how Ryanair became "The Godfather of Ancillary Revenue"
Load-Date: June 29, 2010
End of Document
Research and Markets: Cases to Accompany Contemporary Strategy Analysis, 7th Edition Allow Today's 
Executives to Apply Key Strategy Concepts and Frameworks to T....
Research and Markets: Cases to Accompany Contemporary Strategy 
Analysis, 7th Edition Allow Today's Executives to Apply Key Strategy 
Concepts and Frameworks to Top-Level Decision Making
Business Wire
June 2, 2010 Wednesday 3:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 973 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research 
and 
Markets( 
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/23a75a/cases_to_accompany 
) 
has 
announced the addition of John Wiley and Sons Ltd's new book "            Cases to Accompany Contemporary 
Strategy Analysis, 7th edition " to their offering.
This popular casebook is now available in a more compact and updated edition. In response to requests from 
instructors and students for cases that require less reading time, all the cases are shorter than those in previous 
editions. Written by Rob Grant to accompany his text, Contemporary Strategy Analysis 7th edition, each case is 
designed to enable students to apply particular concepts and techniques of strategy analysis.
New cases include:
•
Manchester United: Preparing for Life without Ferguson
•
Starbucks
•
Easyjet vs. Ryanair
•
DVD Wars
•
Google
Further cases, including the US Airline Industry, Ford and the World Automobile Industry, Richard Branson and the 
Virgin group of Companies, Wal-Mart Stores Inc, Harley-Davidson and General Electric & Jeff Immelt have been 
updated to 2009.
These contemporary cases allow students unparalleled insight into determinants of competition; the basis of 
competitive advantage; the challenges of developing new organizational capabilities; the design of strategies for 
exploiting innovation; and the opportunities and pitfalls of internationalization.
Research and Markets: Cases to Accompany Contemporary Strategy Analysis, 7th Edition Allow Today's 
Executives to Apply Key Strategy Concepts and Frameworks to T....
Used alongside the Contemporary Strategy Analysis text, or as a standalone resource, the cases allow today's 
students and executives to apply key strategy concepts and frameworks to top-level decision making at companies 
that face critical strategic challenges.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Preface
•
Acknowledgments
•
Madonna
•
Starbucks, February 2009: The Coffee Goes Cold
•
The US Airline Industry in 2009
•
Ford and the World Automobile Industry in 2009
•
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 2009
•
Manchester United: Preparing for Life without Ferguson
•
Eastman Kodak: Meeting the Digital Challenge
•
Procter & Gamble's Organization 2005 Project
•
AirAsia: The World's Lowest Cost Airline
•
Harley Davidson Inc., July 2008
•
Raisio Group and the Benecol Launch
•
Rivalry in Video Games
•
DVD War of 2005-8: Blu-Ray vs. HD DVD
•
New York Times
•
Eni SpA: Building an International Energy Major
•
American Apparel: Vertically-integrated in Downtown LA
•
Outback Steakhouse: Going International
•
Euro Disney: From Dream to Nightmare
•
Vodafone: Rethinking the International Strategy
•
Richard Branson and the Virgin Group of Companies in 2007
•
Google Inc.: Running Amuk?
•
Bank of America's Acquisition of Merrill Lynch.
•
Jeff Immelt and the Reinventing of General Electric, 2009
•
W.L. Gore & Associates: Who's In Charge Here?
Reviews:
Praise for the 7th Edition of Contemporary Strategy Analysis In the strategic management textbook jungle, Robert 
Grant's Contemporary Strategy Analysis, Seventh Edition stands up by its clarity and completeness. Its fluid style 
and vivid case examples will help students of strategic management, at all levels, to easily grasp even the most 
complex issues. Strategic management is more than just analytical tools, it is also about content, and an up-to-date 
content is one of the key strength of this new edition of Contemporary Strategy.
Olivier Furrer, Nijmegen School of Management, The Netherlands
Research and Markets: Cases to Accompany Contemporary Strategy Analysis, 7th Edition Allow Today's 
Executives to Apply Key Strategy Concepts and Frameworks to T....
Professor Robert M. Grant has prepared an outstanding text on strategic management that exemplifies theoretical 
rigor, content integration, practical relevance, and situational currency all together. Highly recommended as an 
excellent text for MBA students and advanced undergraduate business students.
Prof. Mingfang Li, Professor of Management, California State University, Northridge
The conceptual rigor and depth of this book goes beyond that of any competitor in the field. Yet, the coverage of 
topics is succinct and immediately accessible to readers. The resources available, whether in references to key 
academic research or instruction material is superb.
Dr. Rudolf R. Sinkovics, Manchester Business School
Grant's text provides a clear and coherent conceptual framework for strategy analysis, accessible to both 
undergraduate and postgraduate students. Whilst there are many texts that consider strategy, this is one of the very 
few that successfully blends contemporary theory with examples of practice, to both inform the understanding of the 
topic and develop relevant applied skills in the reader. When used with the supporting cases text, they provide an 
excellent rich and discursive environment for the study of modern strategy.
Dr. Ian Pownall, Hull University Business School
Grant's text is well-written and accessible at both the undergraduate and MBA levels, and yet it does so without a 
loss of rigor and detail necessary to fully understand complex ideas. Furthermore, Grant does a great job keeping 
up with more recent developments in the strategy literature, connecting cutting-edge research in the field with 
conceptual frameworks and tools for students to apply in their strategic analyses.
Dr. Jongwook Kim, Western Washington University
Grant remains a classic of contemporary strategy analysis. The 7th edition keeps the excellent structure we have 
become accustomed to - tools of analysis, competitive analysis, business strategy and corporate strategy but is 
significantly up-dated in key areas such as sources of competitive advantage, in particular the role of 
complementarity and context in strengthening barriers to competitive imitation. The list of cases has been refreshed 
with a number of new cases dealing with topics currently of great public interest. Grants writing style makes the text 
equally accessible to graduate students and senior undergraduates.
Prof. Frank Bradley, University College Dublin
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/23a75a/cases_to_accompany
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 4, 2010
End of Document
Research and Markets: Airlines: Global Industry Almanac
Research and Markets: Airlines: Global Industry Almanac
Business Wire
May 12, 2010 Wednesday 2:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 551 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/435e67/airlines_global_i ) has announced 
the addition of the "            Airlines: Global Industry Almanac " report to their offering.
The Airlines: Global Industry Almanac is an essential resource for top-level data and analysis covering the Airlines 
industry. It includes detailed data on market size and segmentation, textual analysis of the key trends and 
competitive landscape, and profiles of the leading companies. This incisive report provides expert analysis on a 
global, regional and country basis.
Scope of the Report
•
Contains an executive summary and data on value, volume and segmentation
•
Provides textual analysis of the industry's prospects, competitive landscape and profiles of the leading 
companies
•
Incorporates in-depth five forces competitive environment analysis and scorecards
•
Covers the Global, European and Asia-Pacific markets as well as individual chapters on Australia, 
Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Italy, 
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, 
Sweden, United Kingdom and United States.
•
Includes a five-year forecast of the industry
Highlights
•
The global airlines industry grew by 6.3% in 2008 to reach a value of $467.4 billion.
•
In 2013, the global airlines industry is forecast to have a value of $609.3 billion, an increase of 30.4% since 
2008.
•
The global airlines market grew by 1.8% in 2008 to reach a volume of 2.1 billion passengers.
•
In 2013, the market is forecast to have a volume of 2.6 billion passengers, an increase of 23.6% since 
2008.
Research and Markets: Airlines: Global Industry Almanac
•
Passengers transported within the domestic segment account for 66.9% of the total passenger volume.
•
Americas constitutes the largest airlines industry in the world, accounting for 49.8% of the global revenue.
Why you should buy this report
•
Spot future trends and developments
•
Inform your business decisions
•
Add weight to presentations and marketing materials
•
Save time carrying out entry-level research
Market Definition
The airlines industry comprises passenger air transportation, both scheduled and chartered, but excludes air freight 
transport.
Industry volumes are defined as the total number of passengers enplaned at all airports within the country or region. 
Industry value is defined as the total revenue obtained by airlines from transporting these passengers. This avoids 
the double-counting of passengers.
Key Topics Covered:
CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER 2 GLOBAL AIRLINES
CHAPTER 3 AIRLINES REGIONALLY
CHAPTER 4 APPENDIX
Companies Mentioned:
•
Air France KLM
•
Lufthansa
•
AMR Corporation
•
Japan Airlines System Corporation
•
All Nippon Airways Co. Ltd
•
Qantas Airways
•
British Airways Plc
•
Qantas Airways
•
Virgin Blue Holdings Limited
•
Singapore Airlines Limited
•
Air New Zealand Limited
•
Brussels Airlines
•
Jetairfly
•
Ryanair Holdings plc
•
TAM S.A.
•
Varig S.A.
Research and Markets: Airlines: Global Industry Almanac
•
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA
•
Air Canada Inc
•
Air Transat
•
WestJet Airlines Ltd.
•
China Southern Airlines Company Limited
•
Air China Limited
•
China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited
•
+ many more
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/435e67/airlines_global_i .
Source: Datamonitor
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 16, 2010
End of Document
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc
Business Wire
April 6, 2010 Tuesday 11:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2010 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Transportation Writers
Length: 468 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research 
and 
Markets 
( 
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/e67706/ryanair_holdings_p 
) 
has 
announced the addition of the "            Ryanair Holdings plc " company profile to their offering.
Quantitative analyses of financial statements (Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Sources of Capital), extensive 
ratio tables (Accounting, Asset Utilization, Employee Efficiency, Fixed Charges Coverage, Leverage Analysis, 
Liquidity Analysis, Per-share Data and Profitability Analysis) and proprietary Wright Quality Rating analyses tables. 
The Wright Quality Rating, a measure of corporate risk, examines the liquidity of the stock, financial strength, 
profitability and corporate growth characteristics of Ryanair Holdings plc . There is a textual review of the financial 
results of            Ryanair Holdings plc versus easyJet PLC, Finnair Oyj and Austrian Airlines AG. The comparative 
analysis of these companies compares Sales (sales, sales growth and sales per employee), Company Valuations 
(Price/Earnings, Price/Book, Price/Sales and 52-Week Price Change) and Financial Position (Long-term 
Debt/Equity). Also included for            Ryanair Holdings plc are the Company Description, Recent Stock 
Performance, Profitability Analysis, Dividend Analysis, and Key Data Items (Ticker, Major Industry, Sub-Industry, 
Fiscal Year End Month, Employees, Share Type, Market Capitalization, Total Shares Outstanding and Number of 
Closely Held Shares.) Additional research for            Ryanair Holdings plc includes tables with up to 10-years of 
history of computed ratios, sales, earnings, and security prices.
Key Topics Covered:
This product typically includes the following sections:
Company Fundamentals
•
Company Profile
•
Comparative Business Analysis
•
Summary Analysis per Share
•
Sales Analysis
•
Price Analysis
•
Earnings and Dividends Analysis
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc
Financial Statement Analyses
•
Balance Sheet - Common Size
•
Balance Sheet - Year-Year Percent Change
•
Balance Sheet - Five-Year Averages
•
Income Statement - Common Size
•
Income Statement - Year-Year Percent Change
•
Income Statement - Five-Year Averages
•
Sources of Capital
Financial Ratio Analyses
•
Accounting Ratios
•
Asset Utilization
•
Employee Efficiency
•
Fixed Charges Coverage
•
Leverage Analysis
•
Liquidity Analysis
•
Per-Share Data
•
Profitability Analysis
Wright Quality Rating Analyses
•
Investment Acceptance
•
Financial Strength
•
Profitability and Stability
•
Corporate Growth
Notes:
•
Report is included when there are five or more years of data history.
•
- Report is included when employee counts are available.
•
--These reports are not produced for Financial Companies.
Companies Mentioned:
•
easyJet PLC
•
Finnair Oyj
•
Austrian Airlines AG
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/e67706/ryanair_holdings_p
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager,
press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Research and Markets: Ryanair Holdings plc
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 22, 2010
End of Document
Zacks Sell List Highlights: Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. , Ryanair Holdings plc , Investors Real Estate Trust 
and Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P.
Zacks Sell List Highlights: Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., Ryanair Holdings 
plc, Investors Real Estate Trust and Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P.
Business Wire
December 24, 2009 Thursday 10:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 952 words
Dateline: CHICAGO 
Body
Zacks.com releases details on a group of stocks that are currently members of the exclusive Zacks #5 Rank List - 
Stocks to Sell Now. These stocks are currently rated as a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell): Jacobs Engineering Group 
Inc. (NYSE: JEC ) and Ryanair Holdings plc (Nasdaq:            RYAAY ). Further, Zacks announced #4 Rankings 
(Sell) on two other widely held stocks: Investors Real Estate Trust (Nasdaq:            IRET ) and Magellan Midstream 
Partners, L.P. (NYSE:            MMP ). To see the full Zacks #5 Rank List - Stocks to Sell Now visit:            
http://at.zacks.com/?id=92
Since inception in 1988, the S&P 500 has outperformed the Zacks #5 Rank List of Stocks to Sell Now by 80% 
annually (+2% vs. +10%). While the rest of Wall Street continued to tout stocks during the market declines of the 
last few years, Zacks told investors which stocks to sell or avoid.
Here is a synopsis of why JEC and RYAAY have a Zacks Rank of #5 (Strong Sell) and should most likely be sold or 
avoided for the next one to three months. Note that a #5 Strong Sell rating is applied to 5% of all the stocks in the 
Zacks Rank universe:
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (NYSE: JEC ) announced fourth-quarter earnings of 63 cents per share on Nov 16, 
reflecting a 31% decline year over year. Earnings fell short of analysts' expectations by nearly 9%. The Zacks 
Consensus Estimate for the current year is pegged at $2.38 per share, which decreased 60 cents over the past 2 
months. Next year's estimate has fallen 63 cents to $2.75 per share in the same period.
Ryanair Holdings plc (Nasdaq: RYAAY ) reported a second-quarter profit of $1.20 per share last month that came in 
11% behind the average forecast. For 2010, the Zacks Consensus Estimate dropped 2 cents to a profit of $1.42 per 
share over the past month as 1 analyst out of 4 cut back on projections. The following year's estimate fell 3 cents to 
$1.79 per share during that time.
Here is a synopsis of why IRET and MMP have a Zacks Rank of 4 (Sell) and should also most likely be sold or 
avoided for the next one to three months. Note that a #4 Sell rating is applied to 15% of all the stocks ranked by 
Zacks;
Zacks Sell List Highlights: Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. , Ryanair Holdings plc , Investors Real Estate Trust 
and Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P.
Investors Real Estate Trust's (Nasdaq: IRET ) second-quarter earnings of 16 cents per share, reported on Dec 10, 
missed analysts' projections by 20%. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for the full year declined 2 cents to a profit of 
74 cents per share in the last 7 days as 1 analyst out of 5 reduced on estimates. During that time span, estimate for 
2011 slipped 2 cents to a profit of 75 cents per share.
Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. (NYSE: MMP ) recorded a 42% year-over-year decline in third-quarter profit. On 
Nov 3, the company posted quarterly earnings of 43 cents per share, which fell 17 cents short of the Zacks 
Consensus Estimate. Revenues slumped 18% to $239.8 million. The full-year average forecast is now $2.16 cents 
per share, compared to $2.31 projected a couple of months ago.
Truly taking advantage of the Zacks Rank requires the understanding of how it works. The free special report; 
"Zacks Rank Guide: Harnessing the Power of Earnings Estimate Revisions" is available to provide this insightful 
background. Download a free copy now to prosper in the years to come at http://at.zacks.com/?id=93
About the Zacks Rank
Since 1988, the Zacks Rank has proven that "Earnings estimate revisions are the most powerful force impacting 
stock prices." Since inception in 1988, #1 Rank Stocks have generated an average annual return of +27%. During 
the 2000-2002 bear market, Zacks #1 Rank stocks gained +43.8%, while the S&P 500 tumbled -37.6%. Also note 
that the Zacks Rank system has just as many Strong Sell recommendations (Rank #5) as Strong Buy 
recommendations (Rank #1). Since 1988, Zacks Rank #5 stocks have significantly underperformed the S&P 500 (-
0.9% versus +9%). Thus, the Zacks Rank system allows investors to truly manage portfolio trading effectively.
Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press 
release.
Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter offers continuous coverage of Zacks Rank Buy stocks and highlights 
those stocks poised to outperform the market. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting 
http://at.zacks.com/?id=94
About Zacks
Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a 
PhD in mathematics Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment 
results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks 
Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable 
stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email 
newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your 
time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=95
Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearch
Join 
us 
on 
Facebook: 
http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-
Research/57553657748?ref=ts
Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an 
investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such 
affiliates.
Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and 
securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or 
sell any security.
Zacks Sell List Highlights: Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. , Ryanair Holdings plc , Investors Real Estate Trust 
and Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P.
CONTACT: Zacks.com
Michael Vodicka, 312-265-9226
pr@zacks.com
www.Zacks.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 25, 2009
End of Document
Liligo.co.uk: Budget Airlines Have Lower Carbon Footprint New research from Liligo.co.uk reveals that low-cost 
airlines are a greener option
Liligo.co.uk: Budget Airlines Have Lower Carbon Footprint; New research 
from Liligo.co.uk reveals that low-cost airlines are a greener option
Business Wire
December 10, 2009 Thursday 9:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 982 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Delegates at this week's UN Climate Change conference in Copenhagen should look closer at low-cost airlines 
when discussing the impact of flights on climate change. By choosing to take low cost budget flights, instead of 
business class on traditional airlines, they could be reducing their own flight carbon footprint by over 30%.
Analysis from the travel search engine Liligo.co.uk ( www.liligo.co.uk ) has shown that low-cost airlines offer a lower 
carbon footprint to travellers due to a number of factors:
•
Budget airlines fit more seats in their planes. For instance, easyJet's fleet mainly comprises of Airbus 320 
aircraft fitted with 180 seatsa. The standard Airbus 320 configuration comprises of 150 seatsb, whereas 
British Airways using the same aircraft have them fitted with 134 seats (in a two-class configuration)c.
•
Budget airlines fill more seats thanks to lower prices. In the 12 months running up to September 2009, the 
yield factor for easyJet was around 85%d. The average for BA on European routes was around 75%e.
•
Budget airlines focus on short haul. Although budget airlines have more flights and move more 
passengers, they emit less emissions. A good proxy for carbon footprint is the available seat kilometre 
(ASK) of the airline: British Airwaysf has an ASK two and half times that of easyJet, even though easyJetg 
carried 30% more passengers than BA in 2009.
•
Budget airlines have newer planes; hence they are able to enjoy the fuel efficiency gains of modern 
engines. The average fleet age for Ryanair is under 3 yearsh whereas the average age of BA's fleeti is 
over 3 times older!
Liligo.co.uk's calculations show that, such points considering, the average economy class passenger could reduce 
their carbon footprint around 20% by flying easyJet over British Airways in Europe.
Gbenga Kogbe, UK Manager, Liligo.co.uk, commented: "For a long time the popularity of low-cost airlines has been 
attacked by environmental campaigners, but our analysis reveals that low-budget airlines are conveying 
passengers with a lower carbon footprint than many other airlines. Interestingly, their drive for cost-savings also 
makes these airlines far more carbon efficient."
Liligo.co.uk: Budget Airlines Have Lower Carbon Footprint New research from Liligo.co.uk reveals that low-cost 
airlines are a greener option
Different classes of passenger comfort, airport delays and higher ticket prices resulting in less emptier flights may 
be just as culpable for CO2 levels as the increased popularity of flying that budget airlines have brought about.
Gbenga Kogbe of Liligo.co.uk concludes: "Our analysis shows that the environmental stigma of budget travel may 
be unwarranted. Not only do budget carriers operate more efficiently, travel search engines like Liligo.co.uk can 
inform travellers of the environmental impact of their journey - integrating carbon footprints alongside prices in 
search results. Travel deal hunters can now assess both the financial and environmental costs of travelling with low 
cost airlines, traditional airlines and charter flight companies. While, they are seeking the best prices and they can 
think CO2 too."
Notes to editors
The following sources were used to compile the research:
a) http://www.airbus.com/en/aircraftfamilies/a320/a320/cabin-layout/
b) http://www.britishairways.com/travel/eurotr/public/en_gb
c) http://www.britishairways.com/travel/eurotr/public/en_gb
d) 
http://corporate.easyjet.com/en/Archieve-Do-not-publish/investors-old/regulatory-news/rns-
story.aspx?RnsID=1258441232nRn1Q6004C
e) http://phx.corporate-ir.net/External.File?item=UGFyZW50SUQ9MjIxNTR8Q2hpbGRJRD0tMXxUeXBlPTM=&t=1
f) http://www.britishairways.com/cms/global/microsites/ba_reports0809/financial/opfin_stats.html
g) 
http://corporate.easyjet.com/en/Archieve-Do-not-publish/investors-old/regulatory-news/rns-
story.aspx?RnsID=1258441232nRn1Q6004C
h) http://www.ryanair.com/doc/investor/present/Half_Year_Results_2009.pdf
i) http://www.airfleets.net/ageflotte/British%20Airways.htm
About Liligo.co.uk
Liligo.co.uk is the UK's first meta search engine that displays an integration of CO2 calculations within flight search 
results.* Crawling the widest range of websites in real-time, travellers are not only able to discover the best deals, 
but are also able to be information about the environmental cost of their travel arrangements.
Liligo.co.uk is a travel search engine produced by Findworks Technologies. Based in Paris, France, Findworks 
Technologies has established itself as one of Europe's most innovative travel technology companies. Localised 
Liligo.co.uk search engines have been established in Spain, Italy, Belgium, Germany and Hungary with plans to 
launch in other countries throughout 2010.
Seven reasons that make Liligo.co.uk special:
•
Comprehensiveness - no bad surprises for the users - the search engine retrieves and includes hidden 
fees and charges
•
Exhaustiveness - by crawling the widest range of online offers (including low cost airlines), we make sure 
that users does not miss a deal
•
Social Relevance - we not only retrieve the best deals, we also compute the associated environmental 
cost, the carbon footprint
•
Flexibility - uniquely the search offers combinations that results in lower prices (search results show the 
users how to fly off with one airline and return with another to obtain lower return fares)
Liligo.co.uk: Budget Airlines Have Lower Carbon Footprint New research from Liligo.co.uk reveals that low-cost 
airlines are a greener option
•
User friendliness - we have paid a lot of attention to the user interface of this travel search tool, making it 
one of the most easy to use travel meta search engines
•
Responsiveness - the search engine technology is home built, so we can better respond to user needs (we 
don't use white label engines)
•
In Real-time - the search results a shown in real-time, which means that deals discovered are available at 
the time of query.
* The environmental cost (measured in terms of carbon equivalent) is determined by taking into account the route, 
number of transits, class of tickets and other key factors.
CONTACT: Heather Forty
Skywrite Communications for liligo.co.uk
020 7608 4658
heather.forty@skywritecomms.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 11, 2009
End of Document
Research and Markets: In June 2009, AXA Announces That It Had Secured A New Partnership With Low-Cost 
Airline Ryanair Read More Inside The UK General Insurance ....
Research and Markets: In June 2009, AXA Announces That It Had Secured A 
New Partnership With Low-Cost Airline Ryanair Read More Inside The UK 
General Insurance Competitor Tracker Q2 2009
Business Wire
August 13, 2009 Thursday 3:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 730 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/dd3ff5/uk_general_insuran ) has announced 
the addition of the "            UK General Insurance Competitor Tracker Q2 2009 " report to their offering.
The UK General Insurance Competitor Tracker Q2 2009 reviews the major developments among the leading 
competitors in the UK general insurance market including Aviva, RBS Insurance, AXA, RSA and Zurich. It includes 
information on a range of issues including new product launches, new affinity partnerships and other trading 
relationships and merger and acquisition activity.
Scope
•
Information on new product developments, acquisition activity, new corporate partnerships and other new 
trading relationships.
•
Insight on the following competitors: Allianz, AXA, Aviva, Fortis, Groupama, The Lloyds Banking Group, 
RBS Insurance, RSA, Towergate and Zurich.
Highlights of this title
In June 2009, AXA announced that it had secured a new partnership with low-cost airline Ryanair. The airline 
currently has 67 million customers. Under the deal, AXA will provide travel insurance to Ryanair customers in the 
form of single trip, multi trip and annual cover.
Fortis Insurance and the supermarket giant Tesco have signed an agreement pursuant to which Fortis will take over 
as Tescos home and motor insurance underwriter. The account is one of the largest in the market and should 
significantly increase Fortis market share.
Groupama is using cognitive interviewing techniques to improve its detection of motor claims fraud. The insurer 
stated that a new team had undergone rigorous and comprehensive training to enable the use of this highly 
specialized technique.
Research and Markets: In June 2009, AXA Announces That It Had Secured A New Partnership With Low-Cost 
Airline Ryanair Read More Inside The UK General Insurance ....
Key reasons to purchase this title
•
Keep up to date with the new trading relationships that your competitors have entered into, including deals 
with affinity partners.
•
Understand the new products which your competitors are bringing to market, the main features of these 
products and the intended target market.
•
Keep abreast of the insurance company or broker acquisitions that your competitors are making.
Key Topics Covered:
SUMMARY
•
Overview
•
Allianz secured a new SME broker partnership and reported growth in its UK business
•
Allianz grew its GWP by 2.7% in the first quarter of 2009
•
Allianz secured a three-year SME partnership with broker R A Cowen & Partners
•
Aviva launched Facility 110 to allow members to access the Lloyds market
•
Aviva launched a new replacement broker website and trading platform
•
Aviva launched Facility 110 with broker Miles Smith
•
AXA sold SBJ Global Risks and secured a travel insurance deal with Ryanair
•
AXA entered into a new partnership with Ryanair
•
Swiftcover acquired specialist personal motor claims provider
•
AXA sold its global risks arm, SBJ Global Risks
•
Underwriting agency David Oliver signed a three-year travel partnership with AXA
•
Fortis agreed to a deal with Tesco and secured a five-year deal with a new MGA
•
Fortis will underwrite home and motor insurance for supermarket giant Tesco
•
Fortis secured a five-year deal with a new MGA
•
Fortis added new products to Towergate subsidiary PowerPlace
•
Groupama introduced cognitive interviewing to curb fraud
•
Groupama has deployed cognitive interviewing techniques to tackle fraud
•
Groupama restructured its personal and commercial lines divisions
•
Liverpool Victoria is to become the sole commercial and residential property underwriter for InsureIT
•
Liverpool Victoria launched products on InsureIT
•
LV launched a new commercial package trading website for brokers
•
Lloyds Banking Groups brand esure is to combat fraud through the use of cognitive interviewing
•
esure deployed cognitive interviewing techniques to combat motor insurance fraud
•
RBS announced a fall in operating profits for its insurance division
•
RBSI reported a 31% decrease in operating profits in Q1 2009
•
RSAs UK net written premium declined in Q1 2009
•
RSA reported a contraction in both its UK commercial and personal lines in Q1 2009
Research and Markets: In June 2009, AXA Announces That It Had Secured A New Partnership With Low-Cost 
Airline Ryanair Read More Inside The UK General Insurance ....
•
Zurich witnessed a fall in its global profits in Q1 2009 and launched a new advertisement campaign to help 
grow its direct business
•
Zurich launched a new advertisement campaign to help grow its direct business
APPENDIX
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/dd3ff5/uk_general_insuran .
Source: Datamonitor
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood
Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 14, 2009
End of Document
Research and Markets: Air Travel - Global Strategic Business Report
Research and Markets: Air Travel - Global Strategic Business Report
Business Wire
July 24, 2009 Friday 8:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 361 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/4f8634/air_travel_globa ) has announced 
the addition of the "            Air Travel - Global Strategic Business Report " report to their offering.
This report analyzes the worldwide markets for Air Travel in Billions of Revenue Passenger Kilometers (RPKs). Air 
Travel can be categorized as follows: Business Air Travel, Leisure Air Travel, Domestic Air Travel, and International 
Air Travel. The report provides separate comprehensive analytics for the US, Canada, Japan, Europe, Asia, Latin 
America, Middle East, and Africa. Annual forecasts are provided for each region for the period of 2006 through 
2015. A five-year historic analysis is also provided for these markets.
The report profiles 268 companies including many key and niche players worldwide such as Air Canada, Air 
France-KLM Group, Air France, Alitalia - Linee Aeree Italiane S.p.A., American Airlines, Inc., British Airways Plc, 
British Midland Airways Limited, Continental Airlines, Inc., Cathay Pacific Airways Limited, Hong Kong Dragon 
Airlines Limited, China Southern Airlines Company Limited, Delta Air Lines Inc., Northwest Airlines Corporation, 
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, EasyJet Airline Company Limited, Emirates Airline, First Choice Airways Ltd., Iberia, 
Japan Airlines Corporation, Malaysian Airline System Berhad, Qantas Airways Limited, Ryanair Ltd., Saudi Arabian 
Airlines, Singapore Airlines, Southwest Airlines Co., Thai Airways International Public Company Limited, 
Thomsonfly Ltd., United Airlines, Inc., and US Airways Group, Inc. Market data and analytics are derived from 
primary and secondary research. Company profiles are mostly extracted from URL research and reported select 
online sources.
For information on site licence pricing please click on Enquire before buying
Key Topics Covered:
•
I. Introduction, Methodology & Product Definition
•
II. Executive Summary
•
III. Market
•
IV. Competitive Landscape
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/4f8634/air_travel_globa
Research and Markets: Air Travel - Global Strategic Business Report
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager, press@researchandmarkets.com
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 25, 2009
End of Document
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
Business Wire
July 16, 2009 Thursday 8:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 4532 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Reportlinker.com announces that a new market research report is available in its catalogue.
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
http://www.reportlinker.com/p0131229/Reportlinker-Adds-Air-Travel.html
This report analyzes the worldwide markets for Air Travel in Billions of Revenue Passenger Kilometers (RPKs). Air 
Travel can be categorized as follows: Business Air Travel, Leisure Air Travel, Domestic Air Travel, and International 
Air Travel. The report provides separate comprehensive analytics for the US, Canada, Japan, Europe, Asia, Latin 
America, Middle East, and Africa. Annual forecasts are provided for each region for the period of 2006 through 
2015. A five-year historic analysis is also provided for these markets. The report profiles 268 companies including 
many key and niche players worldwide such as Air Canada, Air France-KLM Group, Air France, Alitalia - Linee 
Aeree Italiane S.p.A., American Airlines, Inc., British Airways Plc, British Midland Airways Limited, Continental 
Airlines, Inc., Cathay Pacific Airways Limited, Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited, China Southern Airlines 
Company Limited, Delta Air Lines Inc., Northwest Airlines Corporation, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, EasyJet Airline 
Company Limited, Emirates Airline, First Choice Airways Ltd., Iberia, Japan Airlines Corporation, Malaysian Airline 
System Berhad, Qantas Airways Limited, Ryanair Ltd., Saudi Arabian Airlines, Singapore Airlines, Southwest 
Airlines Co., Thai Airways International Public Company Limited, Thomsonfly Ltd., United Airlines, Inc., and US 
Airways Group, Inc. Market data and analytics are derived from primary and secondary research. Company profiles 
are mostly extracted from URL research and reported select online sources.
I. INTRODUCTION, METHODOLOGY & PRODUCT DEFINITION
Study Reliability and Reporting Limitations I-1 Disclaimers I-2 Data Interpretation & Reporting Level I-2 Quantitative 
Techniques & Analytics I-3 Product Definition and Scope of Study I-3
II. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. INDUSTRY OVERVIEW II-1 A Prelude II-1 Air Travel in 2009 - At a Glance II-2 Outlook II-2 A Peek into the Past 
Market Structure II-3 Historical Timeline of Air Travel Market: Financial Crises during 1973-2009 II-4 Current and 
Future Analysis II-4 Economic Factors Have an Influence II-4
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
Table 1: Worldwide GDP Statistics (2001-2010): Annual Percentage Change in GDP by Country - US, Canada, 
Japan, France, Germany, UK, China, and India (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-5
Table 2: Worldwide GDP and Passenger Traffic Statistics for the years 2001-2010 (includes corresponding 
Graph/Chart) II-5 A Glance at Regional Markets II-5
Table 3: Global Air Travel Market (2007): Percentage Volume Share Breakdown of Passenger Traffic by Region - 
North America, Europe, Asia, Latin America, Middle East, and Africa (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-6
Table 4: Global Air Travel Market (2011): Percentage Share Breakdown of Passenger Traffic by Route - Intra- Asia, 
Intra-US, Intra-Europe, Intra-Latin America, Intra-Middle East, Asia/Europe, Europe/North America, Asia/North 
America, North America/Latin America, and Others (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-7 Market Constraints II-
7
2. COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPEII-8
Table 5: Leading International Airlines Worldwide by Revenue Passenger Kilometers in Billion (2007): Air France, 
British Airways, Lufthansa, Singapore Airlines, American Airlines, Emirates Airline, United Airlines, KLM, Cathay 
Pacific, and Japan Airlines (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-8
Table 6: Global Air Travel Market (2007): Percentage Share Breakdown of Number of Passengers Carried by 
Leading Airlines - Southwest Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Airlines, United Airlines, China Southern Airlines, 
Northwest Airlines, Lufthansa, Air France, Continental Airlines, Ryanair, All Nippon Airways, and Others (includes 
corresponding Graph/Chart) II-9
Table 7: Leading Airlines Worldwide by Number of Scheduled International Passengers Carried in Million (2007): 
Ryanair, Lufthansa, Air France, EasyJet, British Airways, KLM, Emirates Airline, American Airlines, Cathay Pacific, 
and Singapore Airlines (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-9
Table 8: Leading Airlines Worldwide by Number of Scheduled Domestic Passengers Carried in Million (2007): 
Southwest Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Airlines, United Airlines, China Southern Airlines, Northwest Airlines, 
All Nippon Airways, Continental Airlines, US Airways, and Japan Airlines (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-
10
Table 9: Leading Airlines Worldwide by Number of Scheduled Passenger-Kilometers Flown in Billion (2007): 
American Airlines, United Airlines, Delta Airlines, Continental Airlines, Air France, Lufthansa, Northwest Airlines, 
Southwest Airlines, and British Airways (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-10 Global Alliances II-11 SkyTeam 
Alliance Dominates the Global Market II-11
Table 10: Global Air Travel Market (2008): Percentage Share Breakdown of Air Traffic by Leading Alliances - 
SkyTeam, Star Alliance, British Airways, American (including Finnair), Continental, Virgin Atlantic, US Airways, and 
Others (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-11 Star Alliance II-12 SkyTeam II-12 Oneworld Alliance II-12
3. MARKET DYNAMICS & TRENDS II-13 Air Travel Feels the Pinch of Recession II-13 Airline Traffic Continues to 
Drop II-13 Escalating Airfares Halt Air Traffic II-13 Drop in Overseas Air Travel: A Challenge to Reckon With II-14 
Business Air Travel: Loosing its SheenII-14 Fuel Costs Drop but Flying Gets Costlier II-14
Table 11: Worldwide Oil Price Trends by Average Price/Barrel from 2007 - January 2009 II-15
Table 12: World Jet Fuel Price Trends by Price/ Barrel for 2008 - January 2009II-15 Airlines Offering New Facilities 
to Lure Travelers II-15 Low Cost Carriers - Gaining Rapidly II-15
Table 13: Global Air Travel Market (2007): Percentage Volume Share Breakdown of Low-Cost Carriers by Region - 
Europe, North America, Latin America, Asia, and Others (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-16 Air Ticketing 
Goes Online II-16 Bar-coded Boarding Passes (BCBP) II-17 Market Challenges Force Airlines to Shift Focus 
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
Towards Revenue Integrity II-17 Service Fees - Here to Stay II-17 Airfares to Remain Flat II-18 Airlines Target 
Corporate Travelers II-18
4. SERVICE OVERVIEW II-19 Air TravelII-19 First Class II-19 Business/Executive Class II-19 Economy/Tourist 
Class II-19 Premium Economy Class II-19 Air Travel - A Classification II-20 Business Air TravelII-20 Leisure Air 
Travel II-20 Domestic Travel and International Travel II-20
5. SERVICE INTRODUCTIONSII-21 Cathay Pacific Inaugurates 'The Arrival' Lounge II-21 Cathay Pacific Reduces 
FBA for Economy Class Passengers II-21 easyJet to Start London Gatwick To Copenhagen Route II-21 easyJet 
Introduces London Gatwick to Istanbul Route II-21 easyJet to Introduce London Gatwick to Salzburg Route II-22 
British Airways to Introduce Business Flights from London to New York II-22 British Airways to Introduce 
OpenSkiesII-22 easyJet Introduces New Route II-22 easyJet Introduces New Route Connecting Newcastle and 
Murcia II-22 easyJet Introduces 2 New Routes II-23 easyJet to Introduce New Route Connecting Manchesterand 
Alicante II-23 easyJet Introduces New Route from Bristol II-23 easyJet Introduces New Route from London Luton II-
23 easyJet Introduces New Route Connecting East Midlands and Palma II-23 easyJet to Use Lido OC of Lufthansa 
Systems II-23 ANA to Increase Tokyo-Mumbai Jet Frequency II-24 Air China Announces Adoption of New Winter 
and Spring Schedule II-24 Air China Begins Cross-strait Weekend Charter Flight Service to TaipeiII-24 Japan 
Airlines to Launch First Class Service for Tokyo- New Delhi Flights II-24 Japan Airlines to Add New Suite and Seats 
to its US Flights II-25 Japanese Airlines Inaugurates New Check-in Area for Economy Class II-25 Korean Air 
Launches New Services to Small and Mid-sized CompaniesII-25 Korean Air to Introduce Non-Stop Flights between 
Korea and Munich II-25 Korean Air to Introduce Nonstop Service between Los Angeles and Brazil II-26 Malaysia 
Airlines Introduces MHinsure, a New Online Travel InsuranceII-26 Star Alliance Opens New Lounge at London 
Heathrow Terminal-1 II-26 bmi to Launch New Cabin Baggage Policy at Several UK Airports II-26 Dragonair to 
Launch New On-Flight Disney Fun Pack Series II-27 Dragonair to Introduce New Every Day Flight to Hanoi II-27 
Virgin to Restructure Premium Economy Class II-27 Malaysia Airlines Launches New Direct Service to Yogyakarta 
II-28 Thai Airways Inaugurates Royal Silk Lounge in KLIA II-28 Thai Airways Begins Commercial Flights to Samui 
II-28 Virgin Atlantic Introduces Sixth Daily Flight to New York II-29 Virgin Atlantic to Introduce New Upper Class 
Wing II-29 Virgin Atlantic Introduces Direct Flight to Dubai II-29 Virgin Atlantic Unveils New Heathrow Clubhouse II-
29 Virgin Atlantic to Offer Free Wi-Fi Connections for all Upper Class Passengers II-30 Dragonair Introduces Daily 
Service between Hong Kong and BengaluruII-30 Vietnam Airlines Introduces New Service to Nagoya II-30 Jet 
Airways Introduces Mumbai-San Francisco Daily Air Service II-30 Kingfisher Airlines Forays into Tiruchirapalli with 
New Chennai Flight II-31 Kingfisher Redefines Passenger Comfort through New A330-200 Airbus II-31 East Timor 
to Launch Primary National Airline II-31 Air Canada to Debut Nonstop Geneva-Montreal Flight Services II-31 British 
Airways Offers Luxury Travel for Less Fare II-32 easyJet Introduces New Route Connecting Liverpool and Lisbon II-
32 Air China to Introduce New Service for Athens II-32 Japan Airlines Launches Premium Economy Class on 
Global Routes II-32 Japan Airlines to Launch First Class Service on Japanese Domestic Flights II-33 Air China 
Inaugurates Airbus A330 Service from Vancouver to Beijing II-33 Virginia Unveils a '50% Extra' Scheme for 
Premium Economy Passengers II-33 Virgin Offers Indian Food to Passengers on New London-Mumbai Route II-33 
Virgin Commences BlackBerry® Clinics in Heathrow Clubhouse for Business Class Travelers II-34 Malaysia 
Airlines Launches Direct Service to Macau II-34 EVA Air Unveils New VIP lounge at Los Angeles International 
Airport II-34 Vietnam Airlines Introduces Direct Flight from Hanoi to Luang - Prabang II-35 United to Introduce 
Dulles Flights to Beijing II-35 Air Canada Introduces Subscription Flight PassesII-35 Austrian Airlines Offers New 
Flights to Rome and Naples II-35 airBaltic to Start Direct Flights to Gomel II-35 Ryanair to Introduce Two New 
Routes II-36 Virgin Starts Daily Service Between London and Chicago II-36 KLM to Introduce Non-stop Flight to 
Lima II-36 China Southern Airlines to Start New Air Routes II-36 KLM to Introduce Nonstop Dallas-Amsterdam 
FlightII-36 American Airlines to Unveil London Stansted-New York JFK Flights II-37 Qatar Airways to Introduce US 
Flights in Summer 2007 II-37 Emirates Unveils Non-stop Flights Connecting Houston and Dubai II-37
6. RECENT INDUSTRY ACTIVITY II-38 Malaysia Airlines to Scrap Fuel Surcharges II-38 Air France to Acquire 
Minority Interest in Alitalia II-38 Southwest Airlines Introduces Nonstop Flights within California II-38 British Airways 
Selects Shannon as Re-fuelling Halt for its New York Service II-38 British Airways Selects Tangerine and Forpeople 
to Re-Design its First Class Cabins II-38 Air China Enters into Agreements with EVA Airways and China Airlines II-
39 ANA to Place Order for New Bombardier Q400 Aircraft II-39 ANA to Order 15 Mitsubishi Regional Jets II-39 
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
Royal Brunei Airlines and THAI Enter into a Code-Share Agreement II-39 easyJet Partners with Holiday Extras II-39 
easyJet Takes Over GB Airways II-40 GHIAL and Malaysia Airlines Enter Into Partnership to Establish MRO in 
India II-40 Malaysia Airlines to Purchase Boeing 737-800 Aircrafts II-40 Virgin Atlantic and BAA Ink MoU to Expand 
Facilities at Heathrow II-41 First Choice and Thomsonfly to Operate under Single Name II-41 bmi and Brussels 
Airlines Sign Codeshare Agreement II-41 Garuda Orders 10 Boeing 777-300Ers II-42 Virgin America and Expedia 
Enter Into a Long-Term Alliance II-42 SkyWest to Acquire Stake in Trip II-42 Jetset Travelworld Signs Agreement 
with Qantas Airways for Merger II-42 China Eastern Airlines to Expand its Air-Travel Media Business II-42 Air China 
and ANA to Extend Code-share AgreementII-43 Thomson Cook Withdraws Merger Plans II-43 Qantas and British 
Airways Call Off Merger TalksII-43 Continental Airlines Withdraws Merger Plans II-43 US Airways and United 
Airlines Call Off Merger Talks II-43 China Eastern Starts Direct Shanghai-Taipei Service II-43 Austria to Divest 
Stake in AUA II-43 Jet Airways Enters into Frequent Flyer Partnership with United Airlines II-44 Air Arabia to Start 
Air Arabia Maroc Airline II-44 AA, BA, and Iberia Enter into Agreement II-44 Jamaica to Sell Air Jamaica II-44 
Sukhoi to Unveil Superjet-100 Aircraft Orders II-44 Iberia to Merge with British Airways II-45 Air Traffic Between 
India and Saudi Arabia to Increase II-45 Turkish Airlines and Air Malta Sign Codeshare Agreement II-45 United 
Airlines and Continental Airlines Enter into an Agreement II-45 BA to form Trans-Atlantic Alliance with Iberia and 
American Airlines II-46 Official Airline Guide Enters into Partnership with ProfessionalTravelGuide.com II-46 
WestJet and Southwest Airlines Reach Code-share Agreement II-46 Air Canada Enters into Agreement with 
Continental Airlines II-46 Lufthansa to Acquire Stakes in BMI II-47 American Airlines and El Al Enter into Codeshare 
Agreement II-47 Finnair in JV with Finncomm Airlines for Aircraft Maintenance II-47 Lufthansa to Acquire Stakes in 
Brussels AirlinesII-47 United Airlines and Aer Lingus Ink Codesharing Agreement II-48 Kingfisher Airlines and Jet 
Airways Form Alliance II-48 Air France and Delta Introduce Two Non-stop Flights Between US and France II-48 
Southwest Airlines and Volaris to Ink a codeshare Agreement II-48 SunExpress to Acquire Three New Planes and 
Replace Three Others II-49 Air Mauritius and Malaysia Airlines Ink Codeshare Agreement II-49 WestJet Enters into 
Partnership with Mokulele Airlines II-49 EU to Sign Air Services Agreement with Canada, Armenia, and Israel II-49 
Star Alliance Accepts Brussels Airlines II-50 Ethiopian Airlines and Lufthansa Expand Codeshare Agreement II-50 
EgyptAir and United Airlines Reach Codeshare Agreement II-50 JetBlue Airways Becomes Official Airline of Boston 
Red Sox II-50 Turkish Airlines Acquires Stakes in BH Airlines II-50 BCD Acquires Supracolor II-51 British Airways to 
Take Over L'Avion II-51 Empora Completes Acquisition of Swift II-51 Gate Aviation Acquires Caterers UK II-51 
Halcyon Jets Holdings to Take Over Jet One II-52 River Hawk to Take Over Carolina Air II-52 JetLite and Jet 
Airways Sign Codeshare AgreementII-52 Northwest Airlines and Delta Merge into Global Airline II-52 Hawaiian 
Airlines to Acquire 12 Airbus Aircraft II-53 Jet Airways Enters into Codeshare Partnership with American Airlines II-
53 Singapore Technologies Aerospace Forms Joint Venture with IBERIA Maintenance II-53 Turkish Airlines Enters 
into an Agreement with Air New Zealand II-54 VRG Enters into Interline Agreement with Japan Airlines II-54 US 
Airways Enters into Codeshare Agreement with Swiss International Air Lines II-54 Malaysian Airlines and Etihad 
Airways Sign MoU II-54 Air China Inks Cooperation Agreements with EVA Airways and China Airlines II-55 ANA 
Orders Four Boeing 777-300ER Airplanes II-55 British Airways and Elemis Enter into an Agreement II-55 Malaysia 
Airlines and ATR Enter Into a Deal II-55 Vietnam Airlines and Vietnam Aircraft Leasing Sign Purchase Contracts 
with Airbus II-56 Malaysia Airlines to Invest RM200 Million for Simplification of Air Travel II-56 Greenleaf Forest 
Products Takes Over Halcyon Jets II-56 Thomsonfly Acquires Boeing 737-800 Aircraft II-56 AMR to Divest 
American Eagle II-57 Stars Introduce New Boeing 757 Aircraft II-57 Etihad to Expand in India II-57 Monarch Enters 
into Partnership with Hed Kandi II-57 Skybus Introduces Branded Aircraft II-57 Hong Kong Express Airways to 
Launch Boeing 737-800 Aircrafts II-57 FAX to Start Low-cost Service II-58 Air Arabia to Increase Umrah Flights 
During Ramadan II-58 Air Berlin to Take Over LTU II-58 BCD Travel Announces Stake Acquisition in AvipamII-58 
CSA Extends Long-Haul Service to Atlanta II-58 Travelport Acquires Worldspan II-59 Air France-KLM to Acquire 
VLM AirlinesII-59 Carlson Wagonlit to Take Over Preferred Travel's Operations II-59 BCD Travel Acquires 
Travelflow II-60 ANA and Asiana Airlines Sign Cross-Shareholding Pact II-60 BCD Travel Acquires Tommy Tobin II-
60 BCD Travel Takes Over Major Stake in International Express II-60 Air Canada and Corsairfly Partner Form 
Commercial Partnership II-61 BCD Travel Announces A.V. Tours and Travel Acquisition II-61 Northwest Airlines 
Announces Mesaba Airlines Acquisition II-61 Singapore and Malaysia Airlines Form Strategic Partnership II-61 IWA 
Holdings to Take over Daallo Airlines II-62 Delta Air Lines Teams Up with Air France to Enhance Transatlantic 
Activities II-62 KLM Royal Dutch Airlines Inks Codesharing Agreement with Copa Airlines II-62 China Eastern 
Airlines and Singapore Airlines Sign Strategic Partnership II-62 Turkish Airlines and Austrian Airlines Form 
Partnership II-63 Kingfisher Airlines Partners with Continental Airlines II-63 Fraport to Acquire Minor Stake in Xian 
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
Airport II-63 Shenzhen Yu Zhi Lu Takes Over Speedy Dragon Enterprise II-63 Delta to Start New Service to Boston 
II-64 Vietnam Airlines to Purchase More Aircrafts II-64 Malaysian Airlines to Purchase Long Range Aircraft II-64 
Singapore Airlines Enters into an Agreement with US Airways II-64 ICBS Acquires Stake in Northern Lights Airlines 
II-64 Air Sahara Orders Boeing jets II-65 Fly Asian to Purchase New Aircrafts II-65 Islas Airways to Purchase Six 
ATR 72-500 Aircrafts II-65 Czech Airlines Acquires Airbus A320/A319 II-65 Malév Enters into Code-share 
Agreement with American Airlines II-65 PIA Introduces e-Ticketing with Sabre Airline Solutions Technology II-66 Jet 
Airways Acquires Air Sahara II-66 Air Berlin to Acquire LTU II-66 GOL to Acquire VRG II-66 China Southern and 
Continental Form Partnership II-66 Indian Airlines and Air India Merge II-67 Japan Airlines and Lufthansa Place an 
Order with Embraer II-67 Jet Airways Sets up European Hub at Brussels Airport II-67 Kampong Introduces Jet Air 
Services II-67 MU and JAL to Extend Codeshare Agreement II-68 Northwest to Introduce Nonstop Daily Portland- 
Amsterdam Flight II-68 United to Take over Minority Interest in Aloha II-68 Vecats Receives Contract from Brussels 
Airlines II-68 AeroSvit and American Airlines Sign Prorate Agreement II-68 Deutsche Lufthansa to Acquire Swiss 
International II-69 Icelandair to Acquire Travel Service II-69 Jet Airways and Thai Airways Forge Partnership II-69 
KAL and JAL Codeshare Agreement to Cover Jeju Routes II-69 SAS and THAI Sign Codeshare Agreement II-69 
Thai Airways and JAL Extend Existing Codeshare Agreement II-70 Virgin and North American Sign Agreement II-70
7. FOCUS ON SELECT GLOBAL PLAYERS II-71 Air Canada (Canada) II-71 Air France-KLM Group (France) II-71 
Air France (France)II-71 Alitalia - Linee Aeree Italiane S.p.A. (Italy) II-71 American Airlines, Inc. (USA) II-72 British 
Airways Plc (UK) II-72 British Midland Airways Limited (UK) II-72 Continental Airlines, Inc. (USA) II-72 Cathay 
Pacific Airways Limited (Hong Kong) II-73 Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited (Hong Kong) II-73 China Southern 
Airlines Company Limited (China) II-73 Delta Air Lines Inc. (USA) II-74 Northwest Airlines Corporation (USA) II-74 
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (Germany) II-74 EasyJet Airline Company Limited (UK) II-75 Emirates Airline (UAE) II-75 
First Choice Airways Ltd. (UK) II-75 Iberia (Spain) II-76 Japan Airlines Corporation (Japan) II-76 Malaysian Airline 
System Berhad (Malaysia) II-76 Qantas Airways Limited (Australia) II-77 Ryanair Ltd. (Ireland) II-77 Saudi Arabian 
Airlines (Saudi Arabia) II-77 Singapore Airlines (Singapore) II-77 Southwest Airlines Co. (USA) II-78 Thai Airways 
International Public Company Limited (Thailand) II-78 Thomsonfly Ltd. (UK)II-78 United Airlines, Inc. (USA) II-79 US 
Airways Group, Inc. (USA) II-79 
8. GLOBAL MARKET PERSPECTIVE II-80
Table 14: World Recent Past, Current & Future Analysis for Air Travel by Geographic Region - US, Canada, Japan, 
Europe, Asia, Latin America, Middle East, and Africa Markets Independently Analyzed with Annual Passenger 
Traffic in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion for Years 2006 through 2015 (includes corresponding 
Graph/Chart) II-80
Table 15: World Historic Review for Air Travel by Geographic Region - US, Canada, Japan, Europe, Asia, Latin 
America, Middle East, and Africa Markets Independently Analyzed with nnual Passenger Traffic in RPK (Revenue 
Passenger Kilometer) Billion for Years 2001 through 2005 (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-81
Table 16: World 10-Year Perspective for Air Travel by Geographic Region - Percentage Breakdown of Passenger 
Traffic for US, Canada, Japan, Europe, Asia, Latin America, Middle East, and Africa Markets for Years 2006, 2009 
& 2015 (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-82
III. MARKET
1. THE UNITED STATES III-1 A.Market Analysis III-1 Current and Future Analysis III-1 Market Outlook III-1 Air 
Travel Market in 2008: A Primer III-1 Air Passenger Traffic Tumbles III-2 Market in 2007 III-2 Historic Perspective 
III-3 Trends In the Industry III-3 Airlines Continue to Shrink III-3 Cheap Airfares to Welcome TravelersIII-3 Air Travel 
Hassles Deepen Economic Crisis III-4 Competitive Scenario III-4
Table 17: US Domestic Air Travel Market (2007): Percentage Value Share Breakdown of Revenue Passenger 
Kilometer by Leading Carrier - American Airlines, United Airlines, Southwest Airlines, Delta Airlines, Continental 
Airlines, Northwest Airlines, US Airways, and Others (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) III-5 Southwest Airlines: 
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
Defying Industry Trend III-5 Service Launches III-5 Strategic Corporate Developments III-7 Key Players III-15 
B.Market Analytics III-18
Table 18: US Recent Past, Current & Future Analysis for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently Analyzed for 
the Years 2006 through 2015 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) 
III-18
Table 19: US Historic Review for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently Analyzed for the Years 2001 through 
2005 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) III-18
2. CANADA III-19 A.Market Analysis III-19 Current and Future Analysis III-19 Air Travel Market - An Overview III-19 
Low Cost Carriers - Gaining Upper hand III-19 Canada and EU Sign Blue Sky Agreement III-19 Service Launches 
III-20 Strategic Corporate Developments III-20 Air Canada - A Key Player III-21 B.Market Analytics III-22
Table 20: Canadian Recent Past, Current & Future Analysis for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently 
Analyzed for the Years 2006 through 2015 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding 
Graph/Chart) III-22
Table 21: Canadian Historic Review for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently Analyzed for the Years 2001 
through 2005 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding Graph/Chart)III-22
3. JAPAN III-23 A.Market Analysis III-23 Current and Future Analysis III-23 Service Launches III-23 Strategic 
Corporate Developments III-25 Key Players III-26 B.Market Analytics III-26
Table 22: Japanese Recent Past, Current & Future Analysis for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently 
Analyzed for the Years 2006 through 2015 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding 
Graph/Chart) III-26
Table 23: Japanese Historic Review for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently Analyzed for the Years 2001 
through 2005 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding Graph/Chart)III-27
4. EUROPE III-28 A.Market Analysis III-28 Current and Future Analysis III-28 Potential Opportunities III-28 Air 
Travel - A Quick Primer III-28 US-EU Open Skies Agreement III-29 A Peek into the Past III-29 Market Dynamics III-
30 Network Carriers Face a Tough Battle III-30 Rising Train Prices Boost Air Travel III-30 Strong Euro Drives Air 
Travel Demand III-30 LCCs Drive Air Travel Demand III-31 Strategic Corporate Development III-31 B.Market 
Analytics III-32
Table 24: European Recent Past, Current & Future Analysis for Air Travel by Country - France, Germany, Italy, UK, 
Spain, Russia, and Rest of Europe Markets Independently Analyzed with Annual Passenger Traffic in RPK 
(Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion for Years 2006 through 2015 (includes corresponding Graph/Chart)III-32
Table 25: European Historic Review for Air Travel by Country - France, Germany, Italy, UK, Spain, Russia, and 
Rest of Europe Markets Independently Analyzed with Annual Passenger Traffic in RPK (Revenue Passenger 
Kilometer) Billion for Years 2001 through 2005 (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) III-33
Table 26: European 10-Year Perspective for Air Travel by Country - Percentage Breakdown of Passenger Traffic for 
France, Germany, Italy, UK, Spain, Russia, and Rest of Europe Markets for Years 2006, 2009 & 2015 (includes 
corresponding Graph/Chart) III-34
4a. FRANCE III-35 A.Market Analysis III-35 Current and Future Analysis III-35 Air Travel - A Market Perspective III-
35
Table 27: French Air Travel Market (2007): Percentage Volume Share Breakdown of International Passenger Traffic 
by Region - Europe, Africa, Americas, and Asia-Pacific (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) III-35
Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
Table 28: French Air Travel Market (2007): Percentage Volume Share Breakdown of International Passenger per 
Kilometer Transport by Region - America, Asia-Pacific, Europe, and Africa (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) III-
36
Table 29: French Air Travel Market (2007): Percentage Volume Share Breakdown of Passenger Traffic by EU 
Member Country - UK, Spain, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, and Others (includes corresponding 
Graph/Chart) III-36 Strategic Corporate Developments III-36 Key Players III-38 B.Market Analytics III-38
Table 30: French Recent Past, Current & Future Analysis for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently Analyzed 
for the Years 2006 through 2015 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding 
Graph/Chart) III-38
Table 31: French Historic Review for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently Analyzed for the Years 2001 
through 2005 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) III-39
4b. GERMANY III-40 A.Market Analysis III-40 Current and Future Analysis III-40 Strategic Corporate Developments 
III-40 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (Germany) - A Select Player III-40 B.Market Analytics III-41
Table 32: German Recent Past, Current & Future Analysis for Air Travel - Passenger Traffic Independently 
Analyzed for the Years 2006 through 2015 in RPK (Revenue Passenger Kilometer) Billion (includes corresponding 
Graph/Chart) I
To order this report: Reportlinker Adds Air Travel
http://www.reportlinker.com/p0131229/Reportlinker-Adds-Air-Travel.html
More market research reports here!
CONTACT: Reportlinker
Nicolas: nbo@reportlinker.com
US: (805)-652-2626
Intl: +1 805-652-2626
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 17, 2009
End of Document
Research and Markets: 2008 European 100 Benchmarks: Insight Into European Travel Spending For Air, Hotel, 
Ground Transportation By The Largest Corporate Buyers
Research and Markets: 2008 European 100 Benchmarks: Insight Into 
European Travel Spending For Air, Hotel, Ground Transportation By The 
Largest Corporate Buyers
Business Wire
May 26, 2009 Tuesday 2:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 232 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/3f9dfb/2008_european_100 ) has 
announced the addition of the "            2008 European 100 Benchmarks " report to their offering.
Insight into European travel spending for air, hotel, ground transportation by the largest corporate buyers.
The largest corporate spenders at the European point of sale recently predicted that average European booked air 
spending for 2007 would increase by 20 percent from 2006, after a relatively modest increase from 2005.
That's just one of the findings from the inaugural Business Travel News effort to create benchmarks for the 100 
companies that spent the most on Europe-originating business travel in 2006. Travel buyers from 35 such 
companies provided the data to create these aggregate findings.
Products Mentioned:
•
Eurostar
Key Topics Covered:
•
Airline Benchmarks
•
Siemens: Global Balance
•
Hotel Benchmarks
•
Syngenta: Selective Sourcing
•
Online Booking Benchmarks
•
Pfizer: Cross-Border Mtgs. Consolidation
•
Meetings Benchmarks
•
Planes, Trains and Striking Good Deals
Research and Markets: 2008 European 100 Benchmarks: Insight Into European Travel Spending For Air, Hotel, 
Ground Transportation By The Largest Corporate Buyers
Companies Mentioned:
•
Ryanair
•
Ryanrail
•
Air France
•
Travelpool Europe
•
Capgemini, Trane
•
American Standard Companies 
•
UBS
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/3f9dfb/2008_european_100
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood
Senior Manager
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 27, 2009
End of Document
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Sweden Report Sees Ryanair Open 13 New Routes
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Sweden Report Sees Ryanair 
Open 13 New Routes
Business Wire
May 5, 2009 Tuesday 11:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 443 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/22750a/travel_and_tourism ) has announced 
the addition of the "            Travel and Tourism in Sweden " report to their offering.
The Travel and Tourism in Sweden report offers a comprehensive guide to the size and shape of the market at a 
national level. It provides the latest market size data (2002-2007), allowing you to identify the sectors driving 
growth. It identifies the leading companies and offers strategic analysis of key factors influencing the market - be 
they new legislative, technology or pricing issues. Background information on disposable income, annual leave and 
holiday taking habits is also included. Forecasts to 2012 illustrate how the market is set to change.
Sector coverage: travel accommodation, transportation, car rental, retail travel and tourist attraction markets
Why buy this report? 
•
Get a detailed picture of the travel and tourism industry;
•
Pinpoint growth sectors and identify factors driving change;
•
Understand the competitive environment, the market's major players and leading brands;
•
Use five-year forecasts to assess how the market is predicted to develop.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Executive Summary
•
Environmental Concerns Affect All Travel and Tourism Markets in Sweden
•
On-line Retail Growing Rapidly
•
Government Tourism Policy and Sustainable Tourism
•
Setting Sail for the Sun
•
Skiing Holidays
•
Inter Rail
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Sweden Report Sees Ryanair Open 13 New Routes
•
Strong Performance Over the Review Period
•
Record-breaking Year for Swedish Hotels
•
Competitive Landscape
•
Large Chains Dominate
•
Scandic Hotels Expanding After Sale
•
Accor Establishing New Franchise-based Budget Hotel Chain
•
Bright Forecast for Hotels, Bar Unforeseen Events
•
Air Travel Increasing After Years of Dwindling Demand 
•
Rail Benefits From Increased Environmental Concerns
•
Significant Increase in On-line Sales
•
Ryanair Opens 13 New Routes
•
Ticket Price Increase
•
Decline in Domestic Travel
•
Debate As To the Responsibilities of Airlines Vs Travel Agents
•
Carlson Wagonlit To Buy Competitor Ark Travel
•
Consolidation in the Market for On-line Travel Retail
•
Ski Travel
•
Increased On-line Penetration
•
Liseberg at the Top of the List
•
Events and Activities Growing at the Expense of Museums
•
Winter Attractions Aim for Health and Wellness Tourism in the Summer
•
Medical Tourism Increasing
•
Continued Strong Growth for Spas the Rebranding of the Swedish North
Companies Mentioned:
•
Icehotel Ab
•
Malmö Aviation Ab
•
Seat24 Travel Ab
•
Ticket Travel Group Ab
•
Ving Ab
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/22750a/travel_and_tourism
Source: Euromonitor International
CONTACT: Laura Wood
Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
Research and Markets: Travel and Tourism in Sweden Report Sees Ryanair Open 13 New Routes
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 6, 2009
End of Document
Research and Markets: Comprehensive UK Internet Market Review 2009
Research and Markets: Comprehensive UK Internet Market Review 2009
Business Wire
March 25, 2009 Wednesday 11:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Internet Writers
Length: 860 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research 
and 
Markets 
( 
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/89ee5a/uk_internet_market 
) 
has 
announced the addition of the "            UK Internet Market Review 2009 " report to their offering.
The Internet is now used at home by 68% of UK adults - a penetration rate that continues to climb several 
percentage points each year (although some signs of market saturation are appearing). The fact that 68% of those 
adults who use the Internet 'go online' at least once a day shows how quickly the World Wide Web has become part 
of everyday life in the typical UK household. This first edition of UK Internet Market focuses on consumer, rather 
than business, use of the Internet; among those adults who use the Internet, 93% do so at home, whereas only 
32% do so in the workplace.
Although the concept of an Internet originated in the 1960s and reached mass-market status in the 1990s, the 
2000s have brought significant improvements in the Internet experience for the consumer: fast broadband 
connections, interactive Web 2.0 technologies, and remote access using portable computerised devices (e.g. 
mobile phones).
E-mail is used by 87% of those with domestic Internet access, but communicating through websites - particularly 
'social networking' websites such as Facebook and MySpace - has become very popular. The rise of social 
networking in the 2000s has been remarkable, leading to the acquisition - at a high cost - of several leading 
websites by global media giants. In the latest example of this, in 2008, Time Warner spent $850m on Bebo, a social 
networking website that is phenomenally popular among teenagers.
Time Warner already owned the ISP (Internet service provider) AOL, in addition to its television, movie and 
publishing interests. Other multinational companies with Internet operations, almost all of them based in the US, 
include Microsoft, Apple and News Corporation. However, the Internet has also created large companies that 
specialise in the medium, such as Google (the dominant search engine), eBay (online retailing and auctioning) and 
Amazon (the pioneer of online bookselling).
UK organisations with a vested interest in the Internet include broadcasters such as the BBC, BSkyB and ITV. The 
BBC's iPlayer is the leading technology for 'catching up' with television programmes that have already been 
broadcast, developing the convergence between television and the home computer. ITV offers a similar service and 
also owns the 'reunion' site Friends Reunited.
Research and Markets: Comprehensive UK Internet Market Review 2009
E-commerce, or online shopping, is transforming the retail sector. However, some markets have been affected 
more than others. Travel is easily the largest online market, the Internet having underpinned the rise of the budget 
airlines (easyJet and Ryanair rely almost entirely on the Internet for bookings) and encouraging users to organise 
tailor-made holidays, rather than booking 'packages' through a high-street travel agent. In contrast, online grocery 
shopping has yet to become a mass market. Generally, any business involving detailed information is suited to e-
commerce (e.g. travel, house buying, insurance, books and tickets for events).
Information is itself a large part of the Internet market, ranging across government, education, health, job seeking, 
family history, weather forecasts and many other areas. Wikipedia, a charitable organisation funded by donations, 
has become the world's largest online encyclopaedia.
With the exception of a few operators, such as Wikipedia, the funding mechanism for websites has shifted over the 
years from subscription fees to advertising. In 2007, the Internet accounted for 15.6% of all UK advertising 
expenditure (from a mere 2.9% in 2003). The market divides between advertisements on websites and 'paid-for 
searches', where companies pay search engines such as Google to give their websites prominence.
Looking to the future, the economic crisis of 2008 and 2009 will probably reduce the growth rate for Internet 
advertising, but the medium itself will continue to play an increasingly important role in commerce and in consumer 
lifestyles. We have identified three main future trends: convergence between the television and the computer in 
home entertainment and information; the fragmentation of mass markets as the Internet offers tailor-made options 
for entertainment; and a stimulus to live events and 'socialising' generally, as the likes of networking, blogging and 
organising events via the Internet spread from the youth market to older consumers.
Key Topics Covered:
Executive Summary
1. Industry Overview
2. PEST Analysis
3. Primary Research 
4. Competitive Structure
5. Information, Education and Publications
6. Communication and Networking
7. E-Commerce
8. Entertainment and Culture
9. Financial and Other Services
10. A Global Perspective
11. The Future
12. Further Sources
Companies Mentioned: 
•
Amazon 
•
Apple
•
BBC
Research and Markets: Comprehensive UK Internet Market Review 2009
•
eBay
•
Google
•
InterActive Corporation
•
ITV
•
Microsoft
•
News Corporation
•
Time Warner
•
Wikipedia
•
Yahoo!
•
BT Group
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/89ee5a/uk_internet_market
CONTACT: Laura Wood
Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 26, 2009
End of Document
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
Business Wire
March 20, 2009 Friday 10:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 7062 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Reportlinker.com announces that a new market research report is available in its catalogue.
World Airlines Market
http://www.reportlinker.com/p098234/World-Airlines-Market.html
This report analyzes the worldwide markets for Airlines in Billions of RPKs (Revenue Passenger Kilometers). The 
specific product segments analyzed are Passenger Traffic in Revenue Passenger Kilometers (RPKs), and Freight 
Traffic in Freight Ton Kilometers (FTKs). The report provides separate comprehensive analytics for the US, 
Canada, Japan, Europe, Asia-Pacific , Middle East/Africa, and Latin America. Annual forecasts are provided for 
each region for the period of 2001 through 2015. A ten-year historic analysis is also provided for these markets with 
annual market analytics. The report profiles 528 companies including many key and niche players worldwide such 
as Aeroflot Russian Airlines, Aerovías de México, S.A. de C.V., Air China Limited, Air Canada, Air France-KLM 
Group, Air France, Air New Zealand, Alitalia - Linee Aeree Italiane S.p.A., All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd., American 
Airlines Inc., Asiana Airlines Inc., ASTAR Air Cargo (Formerly DHL Airways), Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc., 
Polar Air Cargo Worldwide, Inc., bmi Group, British Airways PLC, Cargolux Airlines International S.A, Cathay 
Pacific Airways Limited, China Airlines, China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited, China Cargo Airlines Ltd., 
China Southern Airlines Co., Ltd., Compaaía Mexicana de Aviación, S.A. de C.V., Continental Airlines Airlines Inc., 
Delta Airlines Inc., Deutsche Lufthansa AG, DHL International GmbH, Emirates Airline, Emirates SkyCargo, EVA 
Airways Corp., FedEx Corporation, Iberia, Japan Airlines System Corporation, Korean Air, Martinair Cargo, National 
Aviation Company of India Limited, Nippon Cargo Airlines Co., Ltd., Northwest Airlines Corporation, Qantas Airways 
Limited, Qatar Airways Company Q.C.S.C., Ryanair Ltd., Saudi Arabian Airlines, Singapore Airlines, Southwest 
Airlines Co., Swiss International Air Lines Ltd., Thai Airways International, United Parcel Service of America Inc., 
United Airlines Inc., and US Airways Group, Inc. 
Market data and analytics are derived from primary and secondary research. Company profiles are mostly extracted 
from URL research and reported select online sources.
AIRLINES MCP-1003 A GLOBAL STRATEGIC BUSINESS REPORT
CONTENTS
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
I. INTRODUCTION, METHODOLOGY & PRODUCT DEFINITIONS
Study Reliability and Reporting Limitations I-1 Disclaimers I-2 Data Interpretation & Reporting Level I-2 CAGR 
Disparities Between Historic and Current Data I-2 Quantitative Techniques & Analytics I-3 Product Definitions and 
Scope of Study I-3
II. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. Airlines Industry: A Global Perspective II-1 Global Airlines in 2007 II-1 Service Overview II-1
2. Passenger Transport II-2 First Class II-2 Business/Executive Class II-2 Economy/Tourist Class II-2
Table 1: Leading Regional Airlines Worldwide by Revenue Passenger Kilometers in Billion (2004): American 
Airlines, United Airlines, Delta, Air France/KLM, Northwest, Continental, British Airways, Lufthansa Group, 
Southwest and Qantas Group (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-2
3. Cargo Transport II-3 Global Air Cargo Industry - An Overview II-3 Powered by a Favorable Economy II-3 Years 
2001-2005: A Review II-3 Industry Drivers II-4 Economic Factors Have a Direct Influence II-4 Other Factors II-4 The 
Asian Influence II-4 Fuel Prices II-4
Table 2: Global Air Cargo Traffic (2000, 2005, 2010 & 2015): Percentage Breakdown of RTKs (Revenue Ton 
Kilometers) by Segment - Freight and Mail (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-5 Non-US Airlines Dominate 
Global Air Cargo Traffic II-5
Table 3: Global Air Cargo Traffic (2007 (E)): Percentage Breakdown of FTKs (Freight Ton Kilometers) by Airline 
Domicile - Non-US Scheduled, US Scheduled, Non-US Charter, US Charter, US Mail and Non-US Mail (includes 
corresponding Graph/Chart) II-5 Industry Structure II-5 Business Models - Integrated & Non-Integrated II-6 Cargo 
Vs. Passenger Traffic: A Comparative Overview II-6
4. Fleet Dynamics and Distribution II-7
Table 4: Global Aircraft Market (2007 (E)): Percentage Breakdown of Aircraft Fleet by Region - North America, 
Europe, Asia-Pacific (including Japan), Latin America, and Middle East/Africa (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) 
II-7 Fleet Composition II-7
Table 5: Global Aircraft Makeup: By Size and Type in 2003 (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-8
5. Global Alliances II-9 Benefits of an Alliance II-9 Expanding Geographic Coverage II-9 Low-Cost Market 
Development II-9 Maintaining Presence II-9 Star Alliance: A Major Force II-9 Oneworld(TM): Shrinking the World II-
10 SkyTeam II-11 US and Europe II-11
6. Market Trends & Issues II-12 Mounting Fuel Prices Hit Airlines' Profit II-12 Additional East Coast Routes to Save 
Costs in the US II-12 Airline Ticketing Goes Paperless II-12 Need for Global Standards Drives Evolution of Airline 
Ticketing II-13 E-Ticketing Simplifies Operations and Reduces Costs II-13 E-Tickets Add to Consumer Convenience 
II-13 US-EU Open Skies Agreement - Towards an Unfettered Aviation Industry II-13 Internet Remains a Key 
Distribution Channel II-14
Table 6: Leading Airlines Worldwide in 2003: Percentage Breakdown by Scheduled Freight Ton Kms Flown for 
FedEx, Lufthansa, KAL, UPS, SIA, Cathay, Air France, and Others (includes corresponding Graph/Chart) II-15 
Airlines Target the Corporate Midmarket II-15 Discount Carriers Take Undue Advantage II-15
7. Global Market Analysis II-16
8. Bilateral Agreements II-17 CAAS Signs an Agreement with EASA II-17 UAE and Libya Ink Air Cooperation 
Agreement and Services MoU II-17 India Revises Air Services Agreement with Bahrain II-17 India and Oman 
Revise Aviation Services Agreement II-17 India and Saudi Arabia Review Bilateral Aviation Service Agreement II-18 
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
UAE and Nepal Ink Air Services MoU II-18 India, Iran Revise Air Service Agreement II-18 Canada and New 
Zealand Enter into Air Services Agreement II-19 EU and UAE Ink New Aviation Agreement II-19
9. Service Introductions II-20 US Airways (LCC) Commences its First Service Ever to Heathrow from Philadelphia 
II-20 US Airways Introduces New Flights to Austin and San Antonio II-20 US Airways Starts New Daily Service 
Between Daytona Beach and Charlotte II-20 US Airways Commences New Service to Access Gulf Coast II-20 
Austrian Airlines to Extend Services to Saudi Arabia II-21 Lufthansa Introduces Non-Stop Flight in Calgary- 
Frankfurt Route II-21 Emirates to Introduce Daily Flights to Durban II-21 Hong Kong Express Airways Introduces 
Hong Kong to Shanghai Air Service II-21 AirAsia Introduces New Kuala Lumpur to Haikou Flight Service II-21 Hong 
Kong Express Airways Introduces New Air Service to Nogoya II-22 SWISS Introduces Daily Non-Stop Services 
Between Switzerland and Shanghai II-22 Jet Airways Introduces New Air Service to Hong Kong II-22 Cebu Pacific 
Launches Three New Flight Services II-22 China Southern Airlines to Introduce New Iran Route II-23 PAL 
Introduces First Direct Air Service to Chongqing II-23 HK Express Introduces New HK-Clark Flight Service II-23 
Star Alliance Launches China Airpass Fare Product II-23 ANA Starts Daily Flight Services to Hong Kong from 
Tokyo II-24 Hong Kong Airlines Introduces Online Booking II-24 AirAsia X Introduces Kuala Lumpur-Hangzhou 
Service II-24 China Southern Airlines Introduces New Service to Ashgabat II-25 Air One to Launch Intercontinental 
Flights II-25 Ryanair to Launch New Routes from Shannon II-25 Ryanair to Introduce New Flights from West Knock 
Airport to Liverpool II-25 Jet Airways Commences Flights from Mumbai to San Francisco through Shanghai II-26 
Etihad to Introduce Flights to Minsk II-26 Air Mauritius Introduces Flights from Madrid II-26 Air Berlin Resumes 
Flights from Southwest Florida to Germany II-26 Wizz Air to introduce New Budapest to Dortmund Flight II-26 Wizz 
Air to Introduce New Flights to Rome Ciampino from Warsaw II-27 Ryanair Launches New UK Routes II-27 
American Airlines Introduces Flights to Moscow from Chicago II-27 Delta Air Lines Introduces Non-Stop Flights 
from Salt Lake City to Paris II-27 Air Canada Introduces Direct Service between Frankfurt and Ottawa II-28 Ryanair 
to Introduce New Routes across Europe II-28 Ryanair Launches New Routes to Zweibrücken from London 
Stansted II-28 Singapore Airlines to Expand A380 Services to London II-28 Continental Airlines to introduce non-
stop Service on Cleveland-Paris Route II-28 S7 Airlines Launches Service from Moscow to Mineralnye Vody and 
Rostov-on-Don II-29 Singapore Airlines Introduces All-Business Singapore-New York Service II-29 Lufthansa to 
Introduce All-Business Class Service between Munich and Pune II-29 Lufthansa to Launch Lufthansa Business Jet 
Service from Pune to Frankfurt II-29 Iberia Expands Services from Madrid to Panama and Guatemala II-30 Etihad 
to Launch Services to New Destinations Across the Globe II-30 Air Berlin Launches Services to China II-30 
Icelandair to Introduce First Flight from Toronto International Airport II-30 British Airways to Launch Daily London- 
New York Flights Services II-30 OnAir and Air France Roll Out In-flight Mobile Phone Services II-31 Lufthansa to 
Launch Non-Stop Daily Flights from Saudi Arabia to Frankfurt II-31 Air Arabia to Launch Flight Operations to Shiraz, 
Iran II-31 Gulf Air Inaugurates First Flight to China II-31 Qatar Airways Launches Direct Non-stop Services from 
Doha to Kozhikode II-32 Oman Air Inaugurates Muscat-Bangalore Service II-32 Bahrain Air Launches India 
Services II-32 Air India Express Plans Service Expansion to Dubai II-32 Air Arabia Launches Daily Flight Service to 
Kozhikode, India II-32 Etihad to Launch Summer Service to Geneva II-33 Emirates Airlines to Launch 18 Additional 
Weekly Flights to India II-33 Air Arabia to Launch Dhaka Services II-33 Jet Airways Introduces Daily Service from 
Kochi to Doha II-34 Ethiopian Airlines to Expand Middle East Operations II-34 Emirates to Launch Second Service 
to US West Coast II-34 Qatar Airways Launches Service to Guangzhou, China II-35 Jet Airways to Launch Three 
International Flight Services II-35 Jet Airways to Expand International Destinations Network II-35 Emirates 
Launches Non-stop Daily Service from Dubai to Cape Town II-36 China Southern to Launch Flight Service to Iran 
II-36 FlyYeti.com Rolls Out Kathmandu-Abu Dhabi Service II-36 Sky Cargo to Launch Cargo Service to Cape Town 
II-36 Korean Air to Start Non-Stop Munich - Seoul Service II-37 Korean Air to Start Non-Stop Los Angeles - Sãu 
Paulo Flights II-37 Southwest Airlines to Expand Services from Denver II-37 JAL to Launch Tokyo - Sapporo First 
Class Service II-38 JAL to Launch Tokyo - Fukuoka First Class Service II-38 Delta Launches Non-Stop Daily New 
York - Buenos Aires Flight II-38 Delta Launches Non-Stop Daily New York - Tel Aviv Flight II-38 Delta Launches 
Non-Stop Atlanta - St. Kitts Service II-39 Delta Starts Non-Stop New York - Edinburgh Service II-39 Cathay Pacific 
to Launch Freighter Services to Houston and Miami II-39 Cathay Pacific Introduces More Flights to Delhi and 
Mumbai II-39 Continental to Launch Non-Stop Services Between Cleveland and Four US Cities II-40 United to Start 
Non-Stop Flights to Moscow and Dubai II-40 Continental to Simultaneously Launch Non-Stop Services from 
Houston and New York to London II-40 Cargolux Launches Weekly Service from Asia to Vienna II-41 Cargolux to 
Launch Luxembourg - Miami - Houston - Luxembourg Service II-41 Cargolux to Add Another Hong Kong - 
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
Budapest Flight II-41 British Airways Launches London - Dublin Service II-41 British Airways to Launch London - 
Hyderabad Service II-41 American Eagle to Add Three Chicago - Wausau Daily Flights II-41 American to Launch 
Service Between Kingston - Fort Lauderdale II-42 American Eagle to Launch Dallas/Fort Worth - Tampico Service 
II-42 American Eagle to Add Service Between Dallas/ Fort Worth and Roswell II-42 American Airlines to Introduce 
New Service II-42 Air New Zealand to Increase Capacity to Sydney and Melbourne II-42 Air New Zealand 
Introduces New Inflight Service II-43 Air New Zealand to Introduce new Whakatane - Wellington Service II-43 Air 
France to Introduce Non-Stop Paris - Salt Lake City Flight II-43 Air Canada Introduces New Flights to Dayton and 
Grand Rapids II-43 Air Canada Jazz Introduces New Daily Services II-43 Air Canada Jazz Introduces Two New 
Daily Services to the US II-44 Air Canada Introduces New Flights to India II-44 Northwest Airlines Introduces Non-
Stop Service from Detroit to Düsseldorf II-44 US Airways Begins a New Service to Zurich Adding a New Europaen 
Destination II-44 US Airways Starts New Service to Brussels from Philadelphia II-45 US Airways Introduces New 
Non-stop Service Between Portland - Charlotte II-45 Dragonair Relaunches Services to Kathmandu II-45 Air New 
Zealand to Operate New Service between Auckland - Beijing II-45 Jet Airways to Introduce Flights to Bahrain and 
Kuwait II-46 Air New Zealand to Increase Capacity Between Australia and New Zealand II-46 bmi to Introduce 
Services to Dammam from London Heathrow II-46 Qatar Airways Rolls Out Doha-Ahmedabad Service II-46 
Continental Airlines to Launch Service from New York to Mumbai II-47 Continental Airlines Launches New Service 
on Cleveland- Ottawa Route II-47 Continental Launches Non-stop Daily Flights on New York- Athens Route II-47 
Korean Air Introduces New Flight from Seoul to Zhengzhou II-47 Korean Air to Introduce Cargo Services to Moscow 
II-48 Delta to Launch Non-stop Seasonal Weekend Flights to Aspen/ Snowmass II-48 Continental Launches New 
Non-stop Service from Cleveland to Oklahoma II-48 Japan Airlines to Launch Domestic First Class and JAL 
Premium Economy II-48 Iberia Airline Introduces New Service on Madrid-Boston Route II-48 Cathay Pacific to 
Launch Second Service Between San Francisco and Hong Kong II-49 Lufthansa to Introduce a New Service on 
Frankfurt- Luanda Route II-49 Lufthansa to Introduce Non-stop Orlando Service II-49 Continental to Inaugurate 
New Service from New York to Mont- Tremblant II-49 Delta to Introduce New Service between Atlanta and 
Stockholm II-50 Continental Launches New Non-stop Service on Quebec- Cleveland Route II-50 Continental 
Launches New Service from Houston to Loreto II-50 Cargolux Launches Service to Atyrau, Kazakhstan II-50 
Cargolux Launches Cargo Services to Kazakhstan II-50 American Eagle and American Airlines Introduce 16 New 
Routes II-51 American Eagle to Launch Dallas/Fort Worth - Grand Junction Service II-51 United Airlines Launches 
New Service from Los Angeles to Frankfurt II-51 United Airlines to Introduce New Service Between San Francisco 
and Guangzhou II-51 American Airlines to Introduce New Service on New York- London Route II-51 American 
Airlines Rolls Out Bonus Offer for AAdvantage® Members II-52 American Airlines to Introduce New Services from 
Miami to Phoenix II-52 American Eagle to Launch New Service Between Miami and Florida II-52 American Airlines 
to Launch New Services from Fort Lauderdale II-52 American Eagle to Launch a Direct Service on Dallas/Fort 
Worth- Santa Fe Route II-53 American Airlines to Launch New Service between New York and Minneapolis II-53 
American Eagle to Introduce an Inter-Island Service on St. Lucia- Barbados Route II-53 Air Canada Introduces 
Daily Canada-Australia Services II-53 Northwest Announces New Transatlantic Route Services II-53 Air Canada to 
Expand Services to Trinidad and Venezuela II-54 American Eagle Launches Non-Stop Miami - Cozumel Service II-
54 American Eagle to Introduce New Shreveport- Chicago Service II-54 Air New Zealand to Launch New Regional 
Services II-54 Air Canada Jazz Launches Vancouver- Sacramento Service II-55 Air France to Launch Paris-Seattle 
Service II-55 American Airlines to Launch New York-Las Vegas Service II-55 Air New Zealand Plans Additional 
Services to Hong Kong, Shanghai II-55 Air New Zealand to Launch Direct Auckland- Vancouver Service II-55 Air 
Canada Jazz Introduces Two Services from Calgary II-56 Air Canada Plans Non Stop Ottawa-Las Vegas Service II-
56 Air Canada to Introduce New St. John's-Deer Lake Service II-56 Air France Introduces New Service to New York 
II-56 Air France, CityJet Introduces CityJet for Air France Service II-56 Air Canada to Introduce New Eastern 
Canada Routes II-57 US Airways Begins First Service Between Washington D.C. and Sarasota/Bradenton II-57 US 
Airways Commences New Non-Stop Service Between Portland and Philadelphia II-57 US Airways Announces New 
Service Between Las Vegas and Kahului, Maui II-57 Air France Introduces New Service to Chennai II-57 Air 
France, Qantas Launch 7th Code-Share Destination in Australia II-58 Air Canada Introduces Edmonton - Punta 
Cana Service II-58 Air Canada Rolls Out Edmonton-London Heathrow Service II-58 Air Canada Introduces Non-
Stop Service to Shanghai II-58 Air Canada Launches Montreal-Mexico City Service II-58 Air Canada Introduces 
Non-stop Abbotsford- Toronto Service II-58 Air Canada Jazz Launches Toronto - Salt Lake City Service II-59 Air 
Canada Jazz Rolls Out Edmonton-LA Service II-59 American Eagle Launches New Air Service from New York to 
Halifax, Nova Scotia II-59 American Eagle Introduces Service from Alexandria to Dallas/ Fort Worth II-59 American 
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
Eagle Introduces New Flight from Chicago to the Southeast II-60 Cargolux Launches New Gothenburg Freighter 
Service Route II-60 Cargolux Introduces Daily Flights to Beijing and Xiamen II-60 Continental Airlines Introduces 
Two New Air Services from New York II-60 Continental Airlines Launches Non-stop Flights from New York to 
Moncton II-60 Delta Air Lines Launches Two Air Service Between New York and Chicago II-61 Delta Airlines 
Introduces New Non-stop Flight from Atlanta to Düsseldorf II-61 Asiana Airlines and Qatar Airways Introduce Joint 
Air Service II-61 Korean Air Introduces New Service from Seoul to Vienna, Austria II-61 Turkish Airlines to Operate 
Two New Flights from New Delhi to Istanbul II-62 Lufthansa Launches Private Jet by Lufthansa II-62 Etihad 
Introduces Abu Dhabi Toronto Route II-62 Continental Introduces US-India Nonstop Flight II-62 Jetstar Asia 
Introduces Singapore-Yangon Flight II-62 American Airlines Introduces Dallas/Fort Worth-Osaka Flight II-62 
Singapore Airlines Introduces Direct Flights to Hyderabad II-62 Indian Airlines Launches Delhi-Singapore Service II-
63 Alaska Airlines' Seattle-Miami Nonstop Flight II-63 Czech Airlines to Increase Eastern Europe Frequency II-63 
Southwest to Renew Operations from Denver II-63 Continental to Fly New York-Cologne Nonstop II-63 Southwest 
Airlines to Introduce 49 Services II-63 China Airlines to Introduce 3 Flights to Phnom Penh II-63 Indian Airlines 
Announces New Services II-63 Continental Introduces Houston-Buenos Aires Service II-63 Okay Airways Launches 
New Service II-63 Qatar Airways' Doha-Nairobi Service II-63 Delta Announces Salt Lake City-Milwaukee Nonstop 
Services II-64 Delta to Add New International Services II-64 Air Tran to Expand Services from Chicago II-64 BMI to 
Introduce London-Jeddah Service II-64 Kingfisher Airlines Introduces New Services II-64 China Southern Airlines 
Increases Frequency to Vietnam II-64 Delta Introduces New Services from Orlando II-64 New York to Barcelona 
Nonstop on Continental II-65 Sky Airlines to Augment Peruvian Services II-65 Austrian Airlines to Launch New 
Services to India II-65 Indian Airlines to Launch Services to Saudi Arabia II-65 Kingfisher Airlines Launches Delhi-
Mumbai Services II-65 LAN Airlines to Expand Fleet II-65 Sri Lankan Airlines to Expand Network II-65 Vietnam 
Airlines to Introduce Vietnam-US Service II-65 Mexicana to Introduce Mexico-Washington Nonstop Service II-65 
Spirit to Introduce Atlantic City-Jamaica Service II-65 Delta Introduces Chennai-New York Service II-66 Alaska 
Airlines to Fly Los Angeles-Mexico City II-66 South West Airlines Starts Flights to Pittsburgh II-66 United Airlines 
Extends its Low Fare Service II-66 United Airlines Expands Non-Stop Flight Services to China II-66 North West 
Airlines Resumes Services to Charlottesville II-66 North West Airlines Introduces Seasonal Services II-66 Iberia 
Introduces New Flights to Moscow and Beirut II-67 America West Airlines Introduces New Services from Las Vegas 
II-67 America West Airlines Rolls Out New Service to Oklahoma City II-67 Air Canada Introduces New Flights from 
Beijing to Toronto II-67 Air Canada Launches New Service Between Toronto and Seoul II-67 American Airlines 
Releases New Fares for Military Personnels II-67 Cathay Pacific Airways Launches New Services to Xiamen II-67 
Cathay Pacific Unveils Daily Shanghai Freighter Services II-68 Continental Airlines Introduces Non-Stop Service to 
Guayaquil II-68 Continental Airlines Launches New Service at Montgomery Regional Airport II-68 Continental 
Airlines Introduces Daily Nonstop Service to Mexico II-68 Continental Airlines Spreads Out Services to Bahamas II-
68 Delta Airlines Introduces New Services Between Birmingham and Washington DC II-69 Delta Airlines Initiates 
New Services Between Mississippi and Atlanta II-69 United Express Launches New Services to California II-69 
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines Offers e-tickets II-69 Kharkov plant Releases An-148 Aircraft II-69 United Airlines Offers 
Nonstop Services Between Chicago and Shanghai II-69 United Airlines Offers Nonstop Services to Japan II-69 
United Airlines and All Nippon Airways Jointly Offer E-ticketing II-69 United Airlines Introduces First Flight to 
Vietnam II-69 United and Ted Offer Expanded Service II-70 United Express Initiates Nonstop Service II-70 South 
West Airlines Offers Nonstop Flights II-70 South West Airlines Introduces Nonstop Flights to Colombus II-70 South 
West Airlines Initiated Nonstop Flights from Chicago to Poland II-70 South West Airlines Increases Flights from 
Chicago II-70 Qantas Introduces E-ticketing II-70 Qantas adds Two New Destinations II-70 Qantas Releases New 
Flights to Shanghai II-70 Qantas Initiates New Jet Service to New Zealand II-71 North West Airlines Expands Cargo 
Service to China II-71 North West Increases Flights from Indianapolis II-71 Northwest Initiates New Service from 
China to Tokyo II-71 Northwest Increases Flights from Indianapolis II-71 North west airlines introduces nonstop 
flights from Memphis II-71 North west airlines introduces nonstop flights from Detroit II-71 Northwest Expands 
Flights to Pittsburgh and Toronto II-71 Korean air and Delta Expand Their Codeshare Service II-71 Korean airlines 
Offers Connecting Flight from US to Shanghai II-72 Iberia Connects Spain to Nigeria II-72 Iberia offers Direct Flight 
to Montevideo II-72 Iberia Receives its New Airbus II-72 Iberia Offers Nonstop Flight Between Madrid and Moscow 
II-72 Delta Airlines Connect New York to Melbourne II-72 Delta Connection Releases Nonstop service between 
Charleston, S.C., Orlando and Tampa II-72 Delta Airlines Introduces Nonstop service between St. Croix and Atlanta 
II-72 Delta airlines Releases New Flights Between Atlanta and Beijing II-72 Delta Connection Introduce First Jet 
Service II-72 American Airlines Initiates nonstop Flights II-72 American Airlines to Start Flights Between Chicago 
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
and Shanghai II-73 Delta Airlines Initiates Jet Services to Tupelo II-73 Delta Airlines Introduces Flight Service to 
Birmingham II-73 United Airlines and TED Expands New Services to Mexico & Caribbean II-73 South West Airlines 
Plans Launch Services to Pittsburgh II-73 South West Adds Flights to Chicago and Phoenix II-73 Qantas Increases 
Flight Services to UK II-73 Qantas Launches Nonstop Services to Shanghai II-74 North West Airlines Launches 
Services Between Minneapolis and El Paso II-74 North West Airlines Unveils Services to Wilkes- Barre/Scranton II-
74 Northwest Airlines Rolls Out New Seasonal Services to Cancun II-74 North West Airlines Introduces Seasonal 
Non-stop Jet Service to Memphis II-74 North West Airlines Unveils Jet Services to Washington DC II-75 Korean air 
increases Routes to Russia II-75 Korean Air Cargo Introduces Flights From Calgary To Seoul II-75 JAL and China 
Eastern Airlines Unveils Services to Japan- Shanghai Routes II-75 JAL and Hainan Airlines Launches Services to 
Kansai-Haikou Routes II-75 JAL and Swiss International Airlines to Extend Code-Share Flights II-75 Japan Airlines 
and American Airlines Introduces Daily Code- Share Flights II-76 Delta Airlines Launches Daily Service from Atlanta 
to Moscow II-76 Delta Airlines Launches Services to India II-76 Delta Airlines Launches Services to Oregon II-76 
Delta Airline and Alaska Airlines to Introduce Code-Share Services II-76 Delta Airlines Unveils Florida and New 
Intra-Florida to Savannah Flights II-77 Continental Airlines Launches Services to Texas and Mexico City II-77 
Continental airlines starts New Services from Houston II-77 Continental Airlines Initiates Nonstop Flights from New 
York to Punta Cana II-77 Continental Airlines Initiates Nonstop Flights II-77 Continental Airlines Initiates Nonstop 
Flights Between Houston and Mexico II-77 Continental Airlines Starts Nonstop Flights Between Houston and 
Mexico II-77 Continental Airlines Introduces Nonstop Flights to Houston II-77 Continental Airlines Introduces 
Nonstop Services Between Honolulu and Nagoya, Japan II-77 Continental Airlines Releases Nonstop Services 
Between Houston and Huatulco, Mexico II-78 Continental Airlines Offers Nonstop Services Between Bristol and 
New York II-78 Continental Airlines Unveils Non-Stop Air Services II-78 Continental Airlines Launches Services to 
Texas and Mexico City II-78 Continental Airlines Introduces Service Between New York and Belfast II-78 
Continental Airlines Unveils Non-Stop Flight Services to Berlin II-78 Continental Airlines Introduces Daily Non-Stop 
Services to Hamburg II-78 Continental Airlines Launches Services Linking New York and Stockholm II-79 
Continental Airlines Rolls Out Services to Del Rio II-79 Continental Airlines Launches New Service to Mexico 
Destinations II-79 Cathay Pacific Offers Daily Flights to Colombo II-79 Cathay Pacific Introduces Flights to Taipei, 
Sapporo II-79 Cathay Pacific Introduces Direct Service to Moscow II-79 Cathay Pacific Rolls Out Daily Non-Stop 
Service To New York II-79 Cathay Pacific Introduces 3rd Daily Sydney Service II-79 Cathay Pacific Unveils Daily 
Services to Beijing II-80 Cathay Pacific to Recommence Taiwan services II-80 Cargolux Reintroduces Flight to 
Kinshasa II-80 Cargolux Starts Flight Service Between Asia and Spain II-80 Cargolux Releases Flights to Budapest 
II-80 Cargolux Introduces Service to Kenya II-80 Cargolux Launches Lusaka Service II-80 Cargolux Unveils 3rd 
Flight to Sao Paulo and Curitiba II-81 Cargolux Rolls Out Second Flight to Lagos/Nigeria II-81 Cargolux Launches 
Fourth Flight to Budapest II-81 British Airways Introduces New Flight Schedule II-81 British Airways offers Sleeper 
Service II-81 British Airways CitiExpress Rolls Out Three New routes from Birmingham II-82 British Airways Offers 
Better Food Facilities for Club Europe II-82 America West Introduces New Flights II-82 America west Releases New 
Flights from San Francisco II-82 America west Releases New Flights from Las Vegas II-82 America west 
announces New Flights to Kalispell II-82 America west Launched New Website II-82 America west introduces new 
service II-82 America west Launches New Flights Between Las Vegas Hub and Burbank II-82 America west 
Releases Non stop Service between Phoenix and Toronto II-82 America west Airlines Adds New Flights II-83 
America West Airlines Unveils New Non-Stop Flights from San Diego II-83 America West Airlines Introduces New 
Service from Las Vegas II-83 America West Airlines Rolls Out New Services to Las Vegas and Idaho II-83 America 
West Airlines Introduces New Service from Las Vegas II-83 America West Airlines Starts New Flights II-83 America 
West Airlines Initiates Flights Connecting Los Angeles and Vancouver II-83 America West Airlines Introduces Non-
Stop Services to California II-84 American Airlines Introduces New Flights II-84 America West Airlines Launches 
Flights between Los Angeles and Edmonton II-84 America West Airlines Unveils New Nonstop Service from Sioux 
Falls II-84 America West Introduces New Services II-84 America west Releases New Flights between Phoenix Hub 
and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport II-84 America west Launches Flights Between Los Angeles and 
Washington, D.C II-84 America West Initiates Non Stop Services II-84 America West Airlines Unveils New Nonstop 
Service from Sioux Falls II-85 Air New Zealand Unveils New Routes with Wellington - Nadi Direct Service II-85 Air 
New Zealand Increases Trans-Tasman Flights II-85 Air New Zealand Launches New Service to San Francisco II-85 
Air New Zealand Launches Non-Stop Services to Los Angeles II-85 Air New Zealand Expands Weekly Services to 
Auckland II-85 Air New Zealand Introduces Non- Stop Services to Fiji II-86 Air New Zealand Launches Services 
between Christchurch and Rarotonga II-86 Air France Launches "Dedicate" Service II-86 Air France and Delta Air 
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
Lines Introduce Electronic Ticketing II-86 Air France Introduces A330-200 aircraft on the Paris- Philadelphia Route 
II-86 Air France Unveils Non-Stop Services Linking Paris and Vietnam II-86 Air France Receives Delivery of Boeing 
777-300ER II-87 Air France Reopens Non-Stop Services Linking Paris-CDG2 and Teheran II-87 Air France 
Introduces Service to Tashkent from Paris-Charles de Gaulle II-87 Air France Introduces Services to Baiyun II-88 
Air France Rolls Out Paris - Riyadh Non-Stop Services II-88 Air France Introduces Air Services Linking Paris-CDG2 
and Ljubjlana II-88 Air Canada unveils New Flights Between Montreal and Europe II-88 Air Canada Launches 
Latitude Pass II-88 Air Canada Unveils New Flights to Rome II-88 Air Canada Launches New Flights from Toronto 
to Hong Kong II-88 Air Canada Introduces Non-stop Flights to Bogota and Caracas II-88 Alitalia Unveils New 
Flights to Destinations at Large II-89 Air Canada Introduces new Flights for Winter II-89 Air Canada Cargo 
Introduces Freighter Service II-89 Air Canada Unveils New Flights to Lima II-89 Air Canada Launches New Flights 
Between Sydney, Australia and Vancouver II-89
10. Recent Industry Activity II-90 TAROM Becomes SkyTeam Member II-90 Delta and Northwest Airlines' ALPA 
Units Ink Pre-Merger Agreement II-90 ArabJet Bids for Silverjet II-90 Silverjet Suspends Operations II-90 Eos 
Airlines Goes Bankrupt II-91 Frontier Airlines Files for Bankruptcy Protection II-91 ATA Airlines Files for Bankruptcy 
II-91 Air France to Provide BBC News Broadcast on its First Los Angeles Flight II-91 Air New Zealand to 
Discontinue Nadi and Los Angeles Service II-92 Air New Zealand to Expand Domestic Operations II-92 Cathay 
Pacific Deploys First Boeing 747-400 ERF Aircraft for Freighter Operations II-92 US Airways Signs Codeshare 
Agreement with Air China II-92 Uttarkhand Plans Launching Own Airline II-93 AeroTurbine and British Airways Sign 
Agreement II-93 Saltchuk to Purchase Cargo Business of Aloha Airlines II-93 Virgin America Signs Distribution 
Agreement with Travelocity II-94 Frontier Airlines Signs LoI with VTB Leasing II-94 Aeroflot Signs Lease Contract 
with AerCap II-94 Korean Air Inks a Cooperation Agreement with Uzbekistan Airways II-94 Manara Takes Over 
Minority Stake in ACT Airlines II-95 Lonrho Inks MoU with GEFI II-95 easyJet Airline Company Takes Over GB 
Airways II-95 Aer Lingus Plans to Enter into a Partnership with Jetblue Airways II-96 TPG Takes Over Midwest Air 
Group II-96 Servair and China Southern Airlines Company Ink a Memo for Equity Cooperation II-96 SIA 
Engineering and Cebu Pacific Extend Maintenance Contract II-96 IAHL to Take Over Thrush Aircraft II-97 Boeing 
Announces Services Agreement with EL AL Israel Airlines II-97 Siberia Airlines Enters into a Cooperation 
Agreement with Vladivostok Air II-97 ExelTech Renews Services Agreement with Air Creebec II-97 China Aviation 
and China Eastern to Introduce Xingfu Airline II-98 TAM Inks a Deal with Swiss International II-98 China Southern 
to Ink a Cooperation Agreement with China Airlines II-98 Ethiopian and Brussels Airlines Ink a Codeshare 
Agreement II-99 Vietnam Airlines to Divest Stake to Foreign Partners II-99 TAM Inks a Deal with Air Canada II-99 
JetBlue to Take Over Airfone Business of Verizon II-100 China Southern Enters into a Framework Agreement with 
Air Bleu II-100 Etihad Airways and Malaysia Airlines Ink MoU II-100 Midwest Airlines Expands Agreement with 
Northwest Airlines II-100 Jet Airways Signs Code-Share Agreement with United Airlines II-101 Swiss Airlines to 
Acquire Edelweiss Air II-101 Pacific Airlines to Establish Joint Venture with Qantas II-101 Aeroflot and Mongolian 
Airlines Sign MoU II-101 Delta and Northwest to Merge II-102 Great Wall Airlines Enters Sales Partnership with 
Wallace Air Cargo II-102 Cathay Pacific and Finnair Sign Code-Share Agreement II-102 Cathay Pacific Partners 
with Jet Airways II-103 China Eastern Airlines and AVIC Receive Approval for New Airline II-103 Air China to Divest 
Assets to CNACG II-103 UPS to Move Intra-Asia Air Hub to Shenzhen II-104 UPS Expands Services Back and 
Forth Nagoya II-104 Korean Air and China Eastern Expand Code-Share Agreement II-104 HNA Group Signs 
Agreement with Assets Regulator for New Joint Venture II-105 airBaltic and Eurolines Sign Co-Operation 
Agreement II-105 Skyways Signs Contract with SITA for Improved Revenue and Passenger Management II-105 
OpenSkies Receives Approval from DOT II-105 Lufthansa Cargo Extends Contract for MD-11 Freighters of World 
Airways II-106 Japan Airlines and Finnair Expand Code-Share Agreement II-106 Czech Airlines Announces 
Expansion of Code-Share Agreement II-106 Flybe Announces New Interline Partners II-107 US Airways and Swiss 
International Sign Code-Share Agreement II-107 SkyEurope to Offer IATA Compliant e-Ticketing II-107 Etihad 
Crystal Signs Code-Share and Interline Agreement II-107 Air France and Delta Air Ink Joint Venture Agreement for 
Three New Routes II-108 Singapore Airlines and Saudi Arabian Airlines Sign MoU II-108 Kuwait National Airways 
Unveils New Premium Airline Brand Identity and Name II-109 Etihad Airways Signs Code-Share Agreement with 
Jet Airways II-109 Etihad Airways and Yemen Airways Ink Code-Share Agreement II-109 Etihad Airways Signs 
Code-Share Agreement with Saudi Arabian Airlines II-110 Air Arabia Inks Joint Venture with Yeti Airlines; Expands 
into Nepal II-110 Oman Air and Etihad Airways Ink Reciprocal FFP Agreement II-110 Focus Capital Investment 
Acquires Stake in SkyEurope Holding II-111 Lufthansa to Acquire Potential Stake in BMI; Mulls Further Acquisitions 
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
II-111 TUI AG Acquires Stakes in Jet4You II-111 Singapore Airlines to Divest Stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways II-111 
Deutsche Lufthansa to Divest GlobeGround Berlin to WISAG Group II-111 TAP Air Portugal to Divest Stake in VEM 
Engineering Unit II-112 Turkish Airlines Signs Code-share Agreement with Air Malta II-112 Asiana-ANA Partnership 
to Add Flights, Include New Domestic Japan Routes II-112 Continental and United Sign Framework Agreement for 
Global Co-operation II-112 JAL to Increase Code-sharing on Flights by Vietnam Airlines II-113 Iberia and ST 
Aerospace Enter into a Joint Venture II-113 Air Macau Introduces Five Categories in E-Commerce II-114 Deccan 
Aviation Merges with Kingfisher Airlines II-114 Air New Zealand to Increase Capacity Between Australia and New 
Zealand II-114 Air France-KLM to Take Over VLM Airlines II-114 Qantas Enters into a Joint Venture Agreement 
with MAE II-115 KLM and Copa Enter into Code-Sharing Arrangement II-115 Lufthansa Acquires 19% Stake in 
JetBlue II-115 Air India Merges with Indian Airlines to Form NACIL II-116 Shenzhen Airlines and the Government of 
Ningxia to Form Ningxia Airlines II-116 Continental Airlines Signs Contracts with EDS and GE Aviation II-116 
Lufthansa and DHL Establish Cargo Airline II-117 Japan Airlines to Divest 12.54% Stake in JAMCO to Itochu II-117 
Vinashin to Establish Airline Joint Venture with AirAsia II-117 US Consortium Acquires Bolivia's LAB Airline II-118 
Global Aero Logistics Acquires World Air Holdings II-118 Kingfisher Airlines Acquires Stake in Air Deccan II-118 MK 
Airlines Enters into a Contract with Pratt & Whitney II-118 Emirates and CAE Enter into a Contract for New Flight 
Simulator II-118 Naviera Armas Acquires 50% Stake in ISLAS II-119 Jet Airways Acquires Air Sahara II-119 Hainan 
Airlines to Establish New Airline II-119 ICBS Takes Over 50% Stake in Northern Lights Airlines II-119 Pinnacle 
Airlines Acquires Colgan Air II-119 Malev Inks Agreement with American Airlines II-120 Gibralt Acquires Majority 
Stake in Skyservice Airlines II-120 VRG Inks Interline Agreement with Six Foreign Airlines II-120 United Airlines 
Takes Over Stake in Aloha Airlines II-120 Qantas to Take Over Minority Stake in Pacific Airlines II-120 Northwest 
Airlines Completes Acquisition of Mesaba II-121 LONRHO Acquires Stake in Fly540 II-121 Bolivia to Introduce 
Aerolineas Bolivianas II-121 Sri Lanka Establishes Mihin Air II-121 New Airline AirAsia X Launched in Malaysia II-
121 Russian Government to Divest Stake in Samara Airlines II-122 CVC Takes Over Webjet Airline II-122 ACTS 
Aero Inks an Agreement with SkyWest Airlines II-122 Temasek and Singapore Airlines Acquire Minor Stake in 
China Eastern II-122 York Global Finance Takes Over SkyEurope Airlines II-122 River Hawk Divests Viva Air 
Dominicana and Eastern Caribbean Airlines II-123 Chase Nominees Acquires Minority Stake in Vueling Airlines II-
123 RAK Airways Enters into Distribution Agreement with Galileo II-123 Etihad Airways and MEA Signs Code-
Share Agreement II-123 Qatar Airways Signs Code-Share Agreement with United Airlines II-124 EgyptAir Signs 
Code-Share Agreement with bmi II-124 Asiana and ANA to Add Code-Sharing Flights, Strengthen Collaboration II-
124 HNA Group Companies Launch Grand China Air II-125 Air France, Qantas Announce Expansion of Code-
share Agreement II-125 DHL to Establish North Asia Hub at Shanghai Airport II-126 Cargolux and Kuhne & Nagel 
Ink Agreement to operate Southern Connex Service II-126 Air New Zealand Becomes Launch Customer Airline for 
Boeing 787-9 Aircraft II-126 EBRD Acquires Stake in Sky Express II-127 Mesa Air Group and Shenzhen Airlines 
Combine to Form a JV II-127 TAP to Acquire PGA II-127 Avion and Advent Air Enter into Joint Venture II-128 
Baguio Gold to Take Over Philippine Airlines II-128 Okay Airways to Acquire stakes in Jixiang Airlines II-128 Hainan 
Airlines to Acquire 45% Interest in Hong Kong Express Airways II-128 Zoom Airlines to Launch Low Cost Carrier in 
UK II-129 Petters Group Acquires Sun Country MN Airlines II-129 NICON Airways Takes Over EAS Airlines II-129 
Thai Airways Signs MoU with Shanghai Airlines II-129 Pan American Inks a Letter of Intent with Hainan Airlines II-
130 Indigo Partners Acquires 49% Stake in PT Mandala Airlines II-130 Northwest Airlines Takes Over 
Independence Air II-130 Cathay Pacific Acquires Dragon Airlines II-130 ExelTech Enters into a Contract Agreement 
with CanJet II-130 British Airways Floats New Low Cost Airline II-131 Lufthansa and Swiss Merge II-131 
Independence Air Turns Bankrupt II-131 Caribbean Star to Expand Capacity II-131 ATA Airlines to Suspend Flights 
from Denver II-131 United Airlines and Swiss Sign Code-share Agreement II-131 Emu Airways and Airlines of 
South Australia Terminate Operations II-132 Russian EKNOR Airlines Bankrupt II-132 OzJet to Launch Operations 
II-132 China Eastern Airlines to Acquire 80 Aircraft II-132 Delta to Merge Song into Mainline Operations II-132 
Japan Airlines to Join oneworld Alliance II-132 Northwest Applies to End Aircraft Leases II-132 American Airlines 
Reduces Frequencies II-132 Iberia Withdraws from Mexico and Aero Mexicana Privatization II-132 Delta to 
Restructure Comair Operations II-133 Singapore Airlines to Promote Australia II-133 America West Merges with US 
Airways II-133 GoJet Airlines to Begin Operations II-133 Mesa to Establish New Airline in Hawaii II-133 Northwest 
to Terminate Jet Leases to Regional Airlines II-133 Delta Announces Restructuring Initiatives II-133 Lithuanian 
Airlines Spins Off Non-core Divisions II-134 China Airlines to Acquire Stake in Yangzijiang Express Airlines II-134 
Indian Airlines to Acquire 43 Aircraft from Airbus II-134 Taiwanese Airlines to Enter Chinese Airspace II-134 United 
Signs Aircraft Maintenance Agreement with Ameco II-134 SkyWest to Acquire Atlantic Southeast Airlines II-134 
Reportlinker Adds World Airlines Market Report
Ethiopian Airlines to Acquire 787 Dreamliners II-134 Turkish Airlines to Acquire 8 Boeing Aircraft II-135 All Nippon 
Airways to Divest Nippon Cargo Airlines Stake II-135 Middle East's First Private Airline Launched II-135 LAN 
Airlines to Expand Fleet II-135 Lion Mentari Airlines to Acquire 60 Aircraft II-135 SIA Cargo in Joint Venture in 
China II-135 Saudi Arabian Airlines to Privatize Business Divisions II-135 China Eastern Airlines to Acquire CYA 
and CAN II-136 Temasek Holdings to Acquire Stake in Pacific Airlines II-136 Kingfisher Airlines Launched II-136 
Skymark Airlines Merges with Zero Inc II-136 China Southern Airlines Co Plans to Purchase Five "Superjumbos" II-
136 Qantas Invests in QantasLink Fleet II-136 Polish and German Airlines Enter into A Partnership II-137 South 
West Airlines and ATA Airlines Ink a Codeshare Agreement II-137 America West Airlines inks a Codeshare 
Agreement with Qantas Airways II-137 South West and ATA Airlines Launch Code Share Flights to Chicago II-137 
Japan Airlines Signs a Pact with Korean Air II-137 Iberia Signs Maintenance Contract in Nigeria II-137 Air Canada 
Extends Code share Service to Vietnam II-138 France Sells Airbus to China II-138 Lufthansa Signs an Agreement 
with TAP Air Portugal II-138 India Divests Stake in Air India II-138 Japan Airlines Divests it's Building II-138 Aeroflot 
Acquires Arkhangelsk Airlines II-139 Lufthansa Acquires Seven Airbus A340-600 jets II-139 Cathay Pacific to 
increase its fleet to 100 II-139 Air Hong Kong Purchases two Airbus freighters II-139 SITA INC Joins Hands with 
Cargolux Airlines International SA II-139 America west Acquires A320 Aircraft II-139 Air New Zealand Acquires 17 
Dash 8 Q300 Turbo-prop Aircraft II-140 Air New Ze
To order this report: World Airlines Market
http://www.reportlinker.com/p098234/World-Airlines-Market.html
More market research reports here!
CONTACT: Reportlinker
Nicolas: nbo@reportlinker.com
US: (805)-652-2626
Intl: +1 805-652-2626
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 21, 2009
End of Document
Research and Markets: Airlines - Global Strategic Business Report
Research and Markets: Airlines - Global Strategic Business Report
Business Wire
February 3, 2009 Tuesday 4:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 589 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/5a5e2e/airlines_global ) has announced the 
addition of the "            Airlines - Global Strategic Business Report " report to their offering.
This report analyzes the worldwide markets for Airlines in Billions of RPKs (Revenue Passenger Kilometers). The 
specific product segments analyzed are Passenger Traffic in Revenue Passenger Kilometers (RPKs), and Freight 
Traffic in Freight Ton Kilometers (FTKs). The report provides separate comprehensive analytics for the US, 
Canada, Japan, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Middle East/Africa, and Latin America. Annual forecasts are provided for 
each region for the period of 2001 through 2015. A ten-year historic analysis is also provided for these markets with 
annual market analytics.
The report profiles 528 companies including many key and niche players worldwide such as Aeroflot Russian 
Airlines, Aerovías de México, S.A. de C.V., Air China Limited, Air Canada, Air France-KLM Group, Air France, Air 
New Zealand, Alitalia - Linee Aeree Italiane S.p.A., All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd., American Airlines Inc., Asiana 
Airlines Inc., ASTAR Air Cargo (Formerly DHL Airways), Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc., Polar Air Cargo 
Worldwide, Inc., bmi Group, British Airways PLC, Cargolux Airlines International S.A, Cathay Pacific Airways 
Limited, China Airlines, China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited, China Cargo Airlines Ltd., China Southern 
Airlines Co., Ltd., Compaaía Mexicana de Aviación, S.A. de C.V., Continental Airlines Airlines Inc., Delta Airlines 
Inc., Deutsche Lufthansa AG, DHL International GmbH, Emirates Airline, Emirates SkyCargo, EVA Airways Corp., 
FedEx Corporation, Iberia, Japan Airlines System Corporation, Korean Air, Martinair Cargo, National Aviation 
Company of India Limited, Nippon Cargo Airlines Co., Ltd., Northwest Airlines Corporation, Qantas Airways Limited, 
Qatar Airways Company Q.C.S.C., Ryanair Ltd., Saudi Arabian Airlines, Singapore Airlines, Southwest Airlines Co., 
Swiss International Air Lines Ltd., Thai Airways International, United Parcel Service of America Inc., United Airlines 
Inc., and US Airways Group, Inc. Market data and analytics are derived from primary and secondary research. 
Company profiles are mostly extracted from URL research and reported select online sources.
Please note: Reports are sold as single-site single-user licenses. The delivery time for hard copies is between 3-5 
business days, as each hard copy is custom printed for the organization ordering it. Electronic versions require 24-
48 hours as each copy is customized to the client with digital controls and custom watermarks. 
For information on site licence pricing please click on Enquire before buying
Key Topics Covered:
Research and Markets: Airlines - Global Strategic Business Report
AIRLINES - A GLOBAL STRATEGIC BUSINESS REPORT
•
CONTENTS
•
INTRODUCTION, METHODOLOGY & PRODUCT DEFINITIONS
•
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
•
Airlines Industry: A Global Perspective
•
Passenger Transport
•
Cargo Transport
•
Fleet Dynamics and Distribution
•
Global Alliances
•
Market Trends & Issues
•
Global Market Analysis
•
Bilateral Agreements
•
Service Introductions
•
Recent Industry Activity
•
Focus on Select Global Players
•
Global Market Perspective
MARKETS
•
The United States
•
Canada
•
Japan
•
Europe
•
France
•
Germany
•
Italy
•
The United Kingdom
•
Spain
•
Russia
•
Rest of Europe
•
Asia Pacific
•
Middle East And Africa
•
Latin America
COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/5a5e2e/airlines_global
CONTACT: Laura Wood
Senior Manager
Research and Markets: Airlines - Global Strategic Business Report
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 4, 2009
End of Document
Ryanair Partners With Booking.com; New hotel partnership offers over 57,000 great value hotels
Ryanair Partners With Booking.com; New hotel partnership offers over 
57,000 great value hotels
Business Wire
January 29, 2009 Thursday 9:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2009 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel & Hospitality Writers
Length: 403 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Ryanair, Europe's largest low fares airline, today announced a new partnership withBooking.com, Europe's largest 
and fastest growing online hotel reservation service. Ryanair's passengers can now gain access to Booking.com's 
inventories of over 57,000 great value hotels in more than 15,000 destinations in Europe and beyond via 
www.ryanair.com . Booking.com is part of priceline.com (Nasdaq: PCLN).
The new partnership offers hotel accommodation which will cater to every budget with accommodation ranging from 
small independent hotels to luxury five star hotels. Specific terms of the partnership were not disclosed.
"Ryanair will carry 67 million passengers this year at our guaranteed lowest fares and no fuel surcharges and we 
are delighted that our partnership with Booking.com will ensure they gain access to the best hotel accommodation 
in Europe," said Sinead Finn of Ryanair. "Ryanair passengers will benefit from a wide selection of hotels at great 
prices which will cater to the needs of every budget."
"We are proud to welcome such a key partner and to be a part of Ryanair's commitment in meeting their customers' 
needs," said Nick Monaghan, Booking.com's Director of Distribution. "With highly competitive hotel rates, a vast 
choice of properties, multilingual content and the flexibility to make last minute reservations, we believe this 
partnership offers great added value for Ryanair customers."
About Booking.com
Booking.com is part of Priceline.com (Nasdaq: PCLN). Its website attracts an average of 30 million unique visitors 
each month. Booking.com offers more than 57,000 affiliated hotels in 15,000 destinations around the world. Its 
services are available in 21 languages.
About Ryanair
Ryanair was Europe's original low fares airline and is still Europe's largest low fares carrier. In the current year 
Ryanair will carry 58m passengers on 800+ low fare routes across 26 European countries.
Ryanair Partners With Booking.com; New hotel partnership offers over 57,000 great value hotels
Ryanair has 31 European bases and by the end of March 2009 Ryanair will operate a fleet of 195 new Boeing 737-
800NG aircraft with firm orders for a further 84 new aircraft (all net of planned disposals), which will be delivered 
over the next 4 years. Ryanair currently employs a team of 5,961 people, comprising over 25 different nationalities.
CONTACT: Ryanair
Stephen McNamara, 00 353 1 812 1271
or
Priceline.com
Brian Ek, 203-299-8167
brian.ek@priceline.com
or
Murray Consultants
Pauline McAlester, 00 353 1 4980 300
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 30, 2009
End of Document
Comprehensive Assessment of the Global Airlines Market and the Top 200 Airlines
Comprehensive Assessment of the Global Airlines Market and the Top 200 
Airlines
Business Wire
November 3, 2008 Monday 1:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 537 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/4566d4/global_industry_re ) has announced 
the addition of the "Global Industry Report - Airlines" report to their offering.
The two distinct sections of the Airlines report are:
1) Each Airline individually assessed
The two-page analysis of each company provides a wealth of information on each company. Using this text and 
graphical-based model, you can instantly evaluate the company's performance, including: A comprehensive 4 year 
financial assessment, Complete performance comparison analysis, Profit level per passenger, Sales per 
passenger, Latest Sales and Profitability Rankings, Efficiency rankings, And much more.
2) A complete assessment of the whole market: An overview of the industry trends highlights what is happening in 
the global airlines industry.
This section identifies: The latest growth trends, the contrast between the smaller and larger players, the best 
performers, the fastest growing companies, an overall market summary, and much more...
Key Topics Covered:
The report is broken into two parts:
Part 1: A complete assessment of the whole market (Approx 30 pages)
This section highlights all the trends that are happening in the market. It includes, tables of data, written analysis 
and graphs. All quickly give you a clear idea of where the industry is heading. In particular:
Section 1- The latest growth trends
Section 2- The contrast between small and large companies
Comprehensive Assessment of the Global Airlines Market and the Top 200 Airlines
Section 3- The best performers
Section 4- The fastest growers
Section 5- A complete overview of the market including figures for profit margins, return on capital and profitability.
Part 2: An individual analysis of each company (2 pages per company)
The individual analysis gives a complete financial picture of each company listed, including some written 
interpretation of the figures. One of our key indicators is the Plimsoll Chart which combines several performance 
figures to give a measurement of the financial strength of any company. And, because all measurements are 
standardised, in one report you can quickly compare like with like for every major company in your industry.
Each individual report includes:
- A full four year financial assessment
- Comprehensive performance comparison
- Latest sales/profitability rankings
- Specific industry measurements
25 of the 212 Companies Mentioned:
- AMERICAN AIRLINES INC
- AER ARANN GROUP
- AER LINGUS GROUP PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
- AIR ARABIA COMPANY PJSC
- AVIAKOMPANIYA POLYARNYE AVIALINII
- AIR BALTIC CORPORATION AS
- BINTER CANARIAS SA.
- BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC
- AIR FRANCE
- KLM
- AIR INDIA LTD.
- CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LIMITED 
- AIR NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
- CONTINENTAL AIRLINES INC
- DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
- JAPAN AIRLINES CORPORATION
- DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG
Comprehensive Assessment of the Global Airlines Market and the Top 200 Airlines
- JAPAN AIRLINES INTERNATIONAL CO., LTD.
- EASYJET PLC
- EMIRATES GROUP
- VIRGIN ATLANTIC LIMITED
- SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD
- QANTAS AIRWAYS LIMITED
- RYANAIR HOLDINGS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
- SPANAIR SA
- SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES LTD
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/4566d4/global_industry_re
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood
Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 4, 2008
End of Document
Analyse the Aviation Broadband Networks from 2009-2012, Including Company Profiles, Technologies & 
Forecasts
Analyse the Aviation Broadband Networks from 2009-2012, Including 
Company Profiles, Technologies & Forecasts
Business Wire
August 15, 2008 Friday 5:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 336 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research 
and 
Markets 
( 
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/c2f16a/aviation_broadband 
) 
has 
announced the addition of the "Aviation Broadband Networks: 2009-2012" report to their offering.
While the in-flight connectivity industry is just beginning to grow, the market has already started to splinter. With a 
growing choice of ground and satellite technology options, the major question for many business jet owners and 
airlines is increasingly shifting from "when?" to "how?". But as technology progresses, the business case has 
become increasingly dependent on finding the right pricing strategy, and has left many in both the aviation and 
communications industry wondering:
- how quickly can the airlines surpass the revenue per plane of a business jet?
- to what extent will current pricing need to be adjusted to either increase usage or improve profit margins?
- why have there been so many announcements, but so few installations?
In addition to service revenue forecasts by aircraft type, this study addresses the specifics of RF and cabling 
technologies, as well as the needs of the individual markets developing for Ku-Band, L-Band and Air-to-Ground 
services. 
Key Topics Covered:
- Technologies
- Business Strategies and Microeconomic Developments
- Selected Company Profiles
- Forecasts
Analyse the Aviation Broadband Networks from 2009-2012, Including Company Profiles, Technologies & 
Forecasts
- List of Charts and Exhibits
Companies Mentioned:
- AeroMobile 
- OnAir
- Iridium
- Boeing
- Bombardier
- Embraer
- JetBlue
- Aircell
- Verizon
- American Airlines
- Ryanair
- Qantas
- EMS Satcom
- Row 44
- Rockwell Collins 
- Gulfstream
- Air France
- T-Mobile
- Nomadix
- Virgin America
- Allegiant Air
- Alaska Air
- Southwest Airlines
- Virgin Blue
- Air Canada
- USAirways
- Hainan Airlines
Analyse the Aviation Broadband Networks from 2009-2012, Including Company Profiles, Technologies & 
Forecasts
- WestJet
- China Eastern
- Easyjet
- TAM
- ANA
- Qatar Airways
- British Airways
- Cathay Pacific
- Emirates
- Lufthansa
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/c2f16a/aviation_broadband
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 16, 2008
End of Document
Second Edition of the United Kingdom Online Travel Overview
Second Edition of the United Kingdom Online Travel Overview
Business Wire
August 13, 2008 Wednesday 10:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 745 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets ( http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/02ccb6/united_kingdom_onl ) has 
announced the addition of the "United Kingdom Online Travel Overview Second Edition" report to their offering.
The consolidation of tour operators (TUI and First Choice, and MyTravel and Thomas Cook), and, earlier, online 
travel agencies (U.S.-based conglomerates' purchases of U.K.-based ebookers and lastminute.com) have been the 
recent big stories in the U.K. online travel market. However, fueled by demand for experience-based shopping and 
research, The Long Tail is also manifesting itself in travel niche sites that, taken as a whole, rival or surpass the 
influence of the traditional giants.
Specialist travel companies and tour operators are offering differentiated travel experiences and pursuing an 
Internet presence, and, as the U.K. travel shopper evolves, even the mass market travel tour operators are 
investing in experience-based travel brands. This trend is also behind the emergence of communities (e.g., WAYN, 
or "Where Are You Now") and inspiration sites (e.g., InterContinental's GoDiscover.co.uk, launched in partnership 
with Lonely Planet). After a decade of leading the migration of the European traveler to online purchase channels, 
the U.K. traveler is ready to go beyond price and the simple air/car/hotel purchase and enter the realm of shopping 
for experiences.
The U.K. is the first market in which Expedia has experimented with its recommendations engine, dubbed the 
Inspirator. Lastminute.com's strategy from the start has focused on retailing meals, event tickets and other 
experiential products, with these "lifestyle" sales peaking at close to one-tenth of sales before its purchase by Sabre 
diluted the mix. But as demand for such products swells with the online travel shopper's desire to build a trip rather 
than simply assemble transport and accommodations, many of the smaller travel players are leveraging the online 
channel to communicate and market their distinctive offerings.
Even airlines have tried to transcend the commoditization of air by focusing on experience. All U.K. airlines have put 
the Web at the heart of a strategy that allows travelers to manage the pre-, during- and post-trip experience. Now 
that the LCC model has been firmly established, the market leaders such as easyJet and Ryanair continue to avoid 
intermediaries and seek to stimulate their ancillary revenue. Ryanair's recent switch to Expedia as its 
accommodations supplier and easyJet's activation of its deal with hotelopia are examples of this effort.
Second Edition of the United Kingdom Online Travel Overview
The U.K. has a robust but mature online travel market, and yet it continues to attract new players. The U.K. remains 
the first point of entry for any travel player with pan-European designs. The past two years have seen metasearch 
companies such as Sidestep, Kayak and Skyscanner; community sites such as Trip Advisor and IgoUgo; and 
portals such as Yahoo! (through its acquisition of Kelkoo) launch travel offerings in the market. The U.K. market has 
also seen the emergence of home grown intermediaries such as the aggregator Travelsupermarket.com, lodging 
specialist LateRooms.com, and WAYN, one of the largest community Web sites to emerge from the U.K.
Providing guidance in the highly fragmented European market:
This report is our latest in-depth look at market size, forecasts and analysis for the European market as a whole 
along with the U.K. travel market and online travel markets for the years 2004-2006 (actual) and 2007-2008 
(projected), by segment and channel. Get informed about the local players and their importance in each of the 
market segments.
Along with channel analysis of European and U.K. online travel agency, tour operator and supplier direct sales, this 
report provides segment analyses (including historical and projected segment gross bookings and growth, both 
online and offline) for:
- Airline
- Hotel
- Car Rental
- Rail
- Packaging
The European Online Travel Marketplace
- Introduction
- Europe Market Assumptions
- Growth Factors
- Trends in European Online Corporate Travel
- Conclusions
The U.K. Online Travel Marketplace
- Overview
- E-Commerce and Internet Penetration
- Size of the Market
- Online Travel Agencies
- Suppliers
- Conclusion
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/02ccb6/united_kingdom_onl
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Second Edition of the United Kingdom Online Travel Overview
Laura Wood
Senior Manager
Fax from USA: 646-607-1907
Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 14, 2008
End of Document
ONN Sidewinder Video Report: Mechel Stock Hit Hard The Monday, July 28, 2008 Sidewinder Video Report
ONN Sidewinder Video Report: Mechel Stock Hit Hard; The Monday, July 28, 
2008 Sidewinder Video Report
Business Wire
July 28, 2008 Monday 5:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 170 words
Dateline: CHICAGO 
Body
The Sidewinder Report , the            www.onn.tv daily options news program recorded live on the floor of the 
Chicago Board Options Exchange, today examined options trading in the following securities:
Mechel (MTL)
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc (HOT)
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY)
Amgen Inc (AMGN)
Tyson Foods Inc (TSN)
See the full video report at http://link.brightcove.com/services/link/bcpid1556063660/bctid16952901 68 .
(Due to its length, this URL may need to be copied/pasted into your Internet browser's address field. Remove the 
extra space if one exists.)
About the Options News Network:
Serving a rapidly growing segment of the investment community,  The Options News Network provides daily 
options news and entertainment, options education, options strategies to enhance options trading and expert 
commentary on the options market, targeting options traders of all skill and experience levels as well as stock 
investors thinking about options.
CONTACT: The Options News Network
Ed McDaries, 312-362-2548
info@onn.tv
www.onn.tv
ONN Sidewinder Video Report: Mechel Stock Hit Hard The Monday, July 28, 2008 Sidewinder Video Report
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 29, 2008
End of Document
The Revenue Generated by UK Airlines is Estimated to Have Reached £17.32bn in 2007
The Revenue Generated by UK Airlines is Estimated to Have Reached 
£17.32bn in 2007
Business Wire
July 23, 2008 Wednesday 8:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 598 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/5b5b74/airlines_market_re) has announced 
the addition of the "Airlines Market Report 2008" report to their offering.
The revenue generated by UK airlines is estimated to have reached £17.32bn in 2007, a 4.1% increase on 2006. 
The number of passengers carried by UK airlines increased by 3%, to 131.2 million in 2007, and the number of seat 
kilometres (km) used rose by 4.7%, to 315.87 billion km.
Air-passenger transport is undertaken on both scheduled and non-scheduled services. The scheduled sector, which 
includes low-cost carrier services, is the market's largest and fastest-growing sector. Non-scheduled flights, which 
include holiday charter flight operator services, have generally been contracting for a number of years - a result of 
the growing trend towards independent travel, as opposed to package or
inclusive tours.
The rising price of oil is presenting the airline sector with a major challenge. Between 2007 and 2008, the cost of jet 
fuel increased by around 80%. Oil accounts for a third or more of most airlines' operating costs, therefore oil price 
increases are impacting significantly on their profitability. Between January and April 2008, up to 12 airlines around 
the world - including the US-owned Eos Airlines, which operated flights between London Stansted and JFK in New 
York, and Oasis Hong Kong Airlines, which operated scheduled services to Gatwick from its Hong Kong base - 
ceased trading. The Isle of Man-based airline EuroManx also ceased trading in May 2008, and further airline 
closures during the rest of the year are expected. Early in June 2008, Ryanair announced that, if oil prices remained 
at their current rate, the company would only break even in the upcoming financial year.
The EU-US Open Skies Agreement, which marks the start of a new era in transatlantic aviation, came into effect on 
30th March 2008. The agreement allows any airline of the EU and any airline of the US to fly between any two 
points in the regions. US airlines are also allowed to fly between points in the EU. The agreement removes 
restrictions on routes, prices or the number of weekly flights and also establishes closer co-operation between the 
EU and the US in areas such as security and the environment.
The Revenue Generated by UK Airlines is Estimated to Have Reached £17.32bn in 2007
Although, we forecast long-term growth in demand for air transport, the rate of increase in the immediate term 
(2008 and 2009) could be affected by the general slowdown in the economy. The growth that will be achieved 
between 2008 and 2012 will, once again, come from the expansion of the low-cost scheduled services sector, while 
passenger numbers on non-scheduled flights are projected to slide further, as consumers continue to favour 
independently arranged travel. The problems the industry will continue to encounter up to 2012 include increasing 
oil prices, government taxation on air travel and rising airport charges.
Key Topics Covered:
•
Market Definition
•
Market Size
•
Industry Background
•
Competitor Analysis
•
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats
•
Buying Behaviour
•
Current Issues
•
The Global Market 
•
Forecasts
•
Company Profiles
•
Further Sources
Companies Mentioned:
•
British Airways Plc
•
British Midland Airways Ltd
•
Easyjet Airline Company Ltd
•
Flybe Group Ltd
•
First Choice Airways Ltd
•
Monarch Airlines Ltd
•
Thomas Cook Airlines Uk Ltd
•
Thomsonfly Ltd
•
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd
For more information visithttp://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/5b5b74/airlines_market_re
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 24, 2008
The Revenue Generated by UK Airlines is Estimated to Have Reached £17.32bn in 2007
End of Document
Leading Flight Information Provider, OAG (Official Airline Guide), Partners with ProfessionalTravelGuide.com to 
Launch Brand New Flight Centre for Travelers; Tr....
Leading Flight Information Provider, OAG (Official Airline Guide), Partners 
with ProfessionalTravelGuide.com to Launch Brand New Flight Centre for 
Travelers; Travelers Can Now Access Up-To-Date Info for Every Scheduled 
Flight on All Airlines
Business Wire
July 8, 2008 Tuesday 5:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Travel Editors
Length: 789 words
Dateline: ATLANTA 
Body
ProfessionalTravelGuide.com, the world's most comprehensive travel and trip planning resource, has signed a 
partnership with OAG (Official Airline Guide). For the first time, travelers will be able to access OAG's industry-
leading, up-to-date information on airline flight schedules through ProfessionalTravelGuide.com's newly-launched 
Flight Centre.
Using the Flight Centre powered by OAG data, travelers can search airline flight schedules by preferred airline, 
including major carriers like Delta, American Airlines and United, and low cost airlines like Ryanair and Southwest; 
by departure city or destination; or by preferred travel dates. The Flight Centre allows users to look up any airline 
schedule in the world based on their preferred alliance, including oneworld, Skyteam and Star Alliance. In 
addition,the Flight Centre contains detailed travel guides about every airport in the world, including airport maps, 
airline information and transportation services. Travelers can use the Transportation Features and Industry News 
section to access the latest news about airlines and other transportation-related issues. The Flight Centre can be 
accessed athttp://www.professionaltravelguide.com/Flight-Centre.
OAG is a global flight information and data solutions company for the passenger aviation, air cargo logistics and 
business travel markets. OAG's flight schedules database is the most comprehensive available, and 
ProfessionalTravelGuide.com users will be able to search for flights anywhere in the world, knowing that the same 
data powers all of the world's global distribution systems.
"We 
are 
excited 
to 
partner 
with 
OAG 
in 
launching 
the 
Flight 
Centre," 
said 
Peter 
Nicas,ProfessionalTravelGuide.com'sCEO and Editor-in-Chief. "This valuable solution, used by experienced air 
travelers, business people, travel agents and corporations, is the leading flight information resource with every 
conceivable scheduled flight for every destination. We have now made it available to travelers through            
www.ProfessionalTravelGuide.com in an easy-to-use, consumer friendly search function."
Leading Flight Information Provider, OAG (Official Airline Guide), Partners with ProfessionalTravelGuide.com to 
Launch Brand New Flight Centre for Travelers; Tr....
"OAG is delighted to partner withProfessionalTravelGuide.com," said David Rosen, Managing Director, OAG Travel 
Solutions. "As the world's authority on global flight information, we believe that the combination of OAG's flight 
schedules database and           ProfessionalTravelGuide.com's extensive travel content will deliver a unique online 
resource for travelers."
As part ofProfessionalTravelGuide.com's goal of providing the public with a comprehensive one-stop travel 
resource, the flight center joins other recently added features, including a cruise reviews and news section and the 
personalized Pocket Guidebook.
About ProfessionalTravelGuide.com
ProfessionalTravelGuide.comis the most comprehensive, unbiased travel resource on the Internet. Designed for 
leisure and business travelers who value credible and objective travel information above all else, the website 
comprises the most extensive collection of professional hotel reviews, breaking travel news, images, videos, and 
destination guides ever assembled on the Internet. The site features the world's largest travel database including 
more than 159,000 hotels, 7,000+ destination travel guides; 10,000+ professional hotel reviews; 250,000+ 
associated high resolution images; streaming videos; real-time health and travel security alerts; international 
business etiquette; and personalized eGuideBooks(TM).           ProfessionalTravelGuide.comis written by 
professional travel journalists and draws its content from the travel industry's leading databases, such as Star 
Service hotel reviews, Weissmann Professional Destination Reports, Hotel & Travel Index (HTI), and Official 
Meeting Facilities Guide (OMFG).
About OAG (Official Airline Guide)
OAG (www.oagcorporate.com) is a global flight information and data solutions company for the passenger aviation, 
air cargo logistics and business travel markets. Its suite of online, mobile and print reference products for business 
travelers and arrangers are recognized globally as the world standard. The business is underpinned by its data 
management expertise. OAG holds a breadth of aviation and travel related content and is best known for its airline 
schedules database. This feeds the world's global distribution systems and travel portals, and drives the internal 
systems of many airlines, air traffic control systems, aircraft manufacturers, airport planners and government 
agencies. OAG is part of Commonwealth Business Media (           www.cbizmedia.com) a wholly owned subsidiary 
of United Business Media plc (           www.unitedbusinessmedia.com).
CONTACT: Middleberg Communications
Marisol L. Smith, 212-812-5665, ext. 111
mlopez-smith@middlebergcommunications.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 9, 2008
End of Document
Research and Markets: Get off the Ground with New SWOT Framework Analysis of Ryanair Holdings Plc
Research and Markets: Get off the Ground with New SWOT Framework 
Analysis of Ryanair Holdings Plc
Business Wire
May 16, 2008 Friday 8:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 304 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c91872) has announced the addition of 
"Ryanair Holdings Plc - SWOT Framework Analysis" to their offering.
SWOT Analysis, is a strategic planning tool used to evaluate the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and 
Threats involved in a project or in a business venture. It involves specifying the objective of the business venture or 
project and identifying the internal and external factors that are favorable and unfavorable to achieving that 
objective.
The aim of any SWOT analysis is to identify the key internal and external factors that are important to achieving the 
objective. SWOT analysis groups key pieces of information into two main categories:
Internal factors - The strengths and weaknesses internal to the organization. 
External factors - The opportunities and threats presented by the external environment.
The internal factors may be viewed as strengths or weaknesses depending upon their impact on the organizations 
objectives. What may represent strengths with respect to one objective may be weaknesses for another objective. 
The factors may include all of the 4Ps; as well as personnel, finance, manufacturing capabilities, and so on. The 
external factors may include macroeconomic matters, technological change, legislation, and socio-cultural changes, 
as well as changes in the marketplace or competitive position. The results are often presented in the form of a 
matrix.
Key Topics:
Executive Summary
A Brief Profile of the Company 
SWOT Framework Analysis
Research and Markets: Get off the Ground with New SWOT Framework Analysis of Ryanair Holdings Plc
- Strengths to Build Upon
- Weaknesses to Overcome
- Opportunities to Exploit
- Threats to Overcome
Glossary of Terms
For more information visithttp://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c91872
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 17, 2008
End of Document
Cebu Pacific, the Philippines ' Leading Low-Fare Airline, Chooses Navitaire's Hosted Reservation and Revenue 
Management Services With addition of Cebu Pacific, ....
Cebu Pacific, the Philippines' Leading Low-Fare Airline, Chooses Navitaire's 
Hosted Reservation and Revenue Management Services; With addition of 
Cebu Pacific, Navitaire's reservation system powers 17 of the world's 25 
largest low-cost airlines
Business Wire
April 16, 2008 Wednesday 4:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 454 words
Dateline: MINNEAPOLIS & MANILA, Philippines 
Body
Cebu Pacific (CEB), the leading low fare airline in the Philippines, has converted to Navitaire's New Skies®hosted 
reservation services and SkyPrice®revenue management system. Terms of the contract were not disclosed.
Navitaire, a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture (NYSE: ACN), provides technology and business solutions to the 
airline industry on an outsourced basis. 
An integrated Web enabled passenger management system, New Skies includes Internet booking, call center, real 
time reporting, ancillary revenue generation and airport check-in capabilities. Navitaire's SkyPrice revenue 
management system is designed to help low fare airlines make better inventory allocation decisions and maximize 
revenue. 
Lance Gokongwei, CEB President and CEO, said, "Over the past 12 months, we've experienced tremendous 
growth, both domestically and throughout Asia. Navitaire is the ideal technology partner to help enable our vision 
and support our rapid growth with innovative technology and tightly integrated products. We will now be able to offer 
our guests more services and options through our website because of the system's flexibility."
John Dabkowski, Navitaire managing director, said, "Having built a reputation in the industry as a leader in 
innovation, creativity and high-performance, Cebu Pacific understands how Navitaire's advanced systems can help 
them achieve their aggressive growth goals. With the addition of Cebu Pacific, Navitaire's reservation services now 
power 17 of the world's 25 largest low-cost airlines, including Ryanair, JetBlue, Virgin Blue, AirTran Airways, GOL 
and AirAsia."
About Cebu Pacific
Now in its thirteenth year, Cebu Pacific is the low fare airline leader in the Philippines. The airline flew 5.5 million 
passengers in 2007 and has the youngest fleet of aircrafts in the Philippines. CEB flies to 14, soon to be 16 
Cebu Pacific, the Philippines ' Leading Low-Fare Airline, Chooses Navitaire's Hosted Reservation and Revenue 
Management Services With addition of Cebu Pacific, ....
international destinations, with the addition of Kaohsiung and Kota Kinabalu. CEB also operates flights to 21 
domestic destinations.
About Navitaire
Navitaire (www.navitaire.com) delivers industry-leading technology services that enable growth, profitability and 
innovation to more than 85 airlines worldwide, including a majority of the world's most successful and profitable 
airlines. Its offerings include reservation, direct-distribution, revenue-management, revenue-accounting, revenue-
protection, operations-management and operations-recovery services. A wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture, 
Navitaire has offices in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.
CONTACT: Navitaire Inc.
Susan Adelman , +1-612-317-7284
susan.adelman@navitaire.com
or
Accenture
Jim Finlaw, 917-452-3249
james.e.finlaw@accenture.com
or
Cebu Pacific
RG Orense, +632-853-9277
rg.orense@cebupacificair.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 17, 2008
End of Document
WaMu to Strengthen Capital Position, Raising $7 Billion Anchored by a TPG Capital Investment; TPG Founding 
Partner David Bonderman to Join WaMu Board; Company E....
WaMu to Strengthen Capital Position, Raising $7 Billion Anchored by a TPG 
Capital Investment; TPG Founding Partner David Bonderman to Join WaMu 
Board; Company Expects First Quarter Net Loss of Approximately $1.1 
Billion; Board Intends to Reduce Quarterly Dividend Rate to $0.01 Per 
Common Share
Business Wire
April 8, 2008 Tuesday 1:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 1600 words
Dateline: SEATTLE 
Body
Washington Mutual, Inc. (NYSE:WM) announced today that it entered into definitive agreements to raise an 
aggregate $7 billion through direct sale of equity securities to an investment vehicle managed by TPG Capital 
(TPG), and to other investors, including many of WaMu's top institutional shareholders. TPG's investmentvehicle, 
as anchor investor, will purchase $2 billion in newly-issued WaMu securities. With the proceeds of the offering, the 
company's capital ratios are expected to remain well above its targeted levels during the period of elevated credit 
costs in its loan portfolios in 2008 and 2009. At the same time, the company will continue to grow its leading, 
national banking franchise.
"We're very pleased that TPG and these major investors have expressed their confidence in WaMu's underlying 
value and its growth potential," said WaMu Chairman and CEO Kerry Killinger. "This substantial new capital - along 
with the other steps we are announcing today - will position us for a return to profitability as these elevated credit 
costs subside. With the support of these investors, we have every confidence in our ability to deal with today's 
market conditions and restore shareholder value."
WaMu's board of directors intends to appoint TPG Founding Partner David Bonderman to the board. In addition, 
Larry Kellner, chairman and chief executive officer of Continental Airlines and former executive vice president and 
chief financial officer of American Savings Bank, will become a board observer at TPG's request.
"In TPG we have found a great partner with a terrific investment track record," said Killinger. "We are particularly 
pleased that David will rejoin our board. He has a long history with the company - having previously served as a 
WaMu director - and we are privileged to once again benefit from his insight and experience."
Bonderman is a founder and principal of TPG and TPG Asia (formerly Newbridge Capital). Before founding TPG in 
1992, Bonderman was Chief Operating Officer of the Robert M. Bass Group, Inc. (now Keystone, Inc.) in Fort 
Worth. Prior to that, he was a partner in the law firm of Arnold & Porter in Washington, D.C. Bonderman serves as 
WaMu to Strengthen Capital Position, Raising $7 Billion Anchored by a TPG Capital Investment; TPG Founding 
Partner David Bonderman to Join WaMu Board; Company E....
director on several public company boards, including Burger King Holdings, Inc.; CoStar Group, Inc.; Gemalto NV.; 
and Ryanair Holdings, plc, of which he is Chairman. He served as a director on WaMu's board from 1996 to 2002.
In addition to raising capital, the company announced the following actions:
Dividend
To further strengthen the company's capital position, the board of directors intends to reduce the quarterly dividend 
rate to $0.01 per common share from its most recent quarterly dividend rate of $0.15 per common share, which will 
preserve approximately $490 million of capital annually.
Advancing its Retail-focused Business Strategies
Last year, WaMu took steps to realign its home lending business primarily into its core retail banking network and to 
reduce the size of its other home lending operations. Today, the company announced plans to further its retail-
focused strategy by:
•
Investing in and growing its retail bank branch and call center production;
•
closing all of its freestanding home loan offices; and
•
exiting wholesale lending - its loan broker channel.
The company expects the closures of its freestanding home loan offices and wholesale channel to be completed by 
the end of the second quarter.
First Quarter 2008 Results
WaMu also today announced preliminary, abbreviated results for the 2008 first quarter, as follows:
•
a net loss of approximately $1.1 billion, or $1.40 per diluted share;
•
a provision for loan losses for the quarter of approximately $3.5 billion and expected first quarter net 
charge-offs of approximately $1.4 billion;
•
a 19 basis point increase in net interest margin for the quarter from the prior quarter to approximately 3.05 
percent reflecting significantly lower wholesale borrowing costs following the 200 basis point reduction in 
the Federal Funds rate;
•
an increase in total deposits of approximately $6 billion, including an approximate $8 billion increase in 
retail deposits; and
•
a 15 percent increase in total noninterest income to approximately $1.6 billion from the prior quarter.
WaMu expects to announce full first quarter earnings results on April 15, 2008.
Terms of the Capital Raising Transaction
In the capital raising transaction, the company sold approximately 176 million shares of its common stock at a 
purchase price of $8.75 per share. In addition, the company issued an aggregate of approximately 55,000 shares of 
contingently convertible, perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock at a purchase price and liquidation preference of 
$100,000 per share. After receipt of certain approvals, including approval of the company's shareholders, the 
convertible preferred stock will automatically convert into the Company's common stock at an initial exercise price 
of $8.75 per share, subject to adjustment.
In addition, certain investors who agreed to transfer restrictions on their shares will receive warrants, which, upon 
obtaining certain approvals, will become exercisable for common stock based on a post-closing reference price. 
These warrants have a term of five years.
WaMu to Strengthen Capital Position, Raising $7 Billion Anchored by a TPG Capital Investment; TPG Founding 
Partner David Bonderman to Join WaMu Board; Company E....
The company intends to call a special shareholders' meeting to increase the number of common shares available 
for issuance under its articles of incorporation and to approve conversion of the preferred stock into common stock. 
Further details about the private offering and the terms of the securities will be available in the company's Form 8-K 
to be filed with the SEC.
In addition to reporting first quarter results, the company's annual shareholders' meeting will be held on April 15, 
2008 and a conference call to discuss the company's financial results will be held on Wed., April 16, 2008, at 10:00 
a.m. ET. The call will be hosted by Kerry Killinger, chairman and chief executive officer and Tom Casey, executive 
vice president and chief financial officer. The conference call is available by telephone or on the Internet. The dial-in 
number for the live conference call is 888-391-7808. Participants calling from outside the United States may dial 
630-395-0029. The passcode "WaMu" is required to access the call. Via the Internet, the conference call is 
available on the Investor Relations portion of the company's web site atwww.wamu.com/ir. A recording of the 
conference call will be available one hour following the end of the call through midnight ET on Friday, April 25. The 
recorded message will be available at 866-360-3314. Callers from outside the United States may dial 203-369-
0168.
Advisors
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Lehman Brothers served as placement agents and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP 
served as legal advisors to Washington Mutual in the transaction. Credit Suisse and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & 
Hamilton LLP acted as financial and legal advisers to TPG.
About TPG Capital
TPG Capital is the global buyout group of TPG, a leading private investment firm founded in 1992 with more than 
$50 billion of assets under management and offices in San Francisco, London, Hong Kong, New York, Minneapolis, 
Fort Worth, Melbourne, Menlo Park, Moscow, Mumbai, Beijing, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo. TPG Capital has 
extensive experience with global public and private investments executed through leveraged buyouts, 
recapitalizations, spinouts, joint ventures and restructurings. TPG Capital's investments span a variety of industries 
including financial services, technology, industrials, retail, consumer, travel and entertainment, media and 
communications and healthcare. Please visitwww.tpg.com.
About WaMu
WaMu, through its subsidiaries, is one of the nation's leading consumer and small business banks. On Dec. 31, 
2007, WaMu and its subsidiaries had assets of $327.91 billion. The company has a history dating back to 1889 and 
its subsidiary banks currently operate approximately 2,500 consumer and small business banking stores throughout 
the nation. WaMu's news releases are available at www.wamu.com.
Cautionary Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements, which are not historical facts and pertain to future operating 
results. These forward-looking statements are within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, 
expectations and intentions and other statements contained in this document that are not historical facts. When 
used in this presentation, the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," or 
words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as "will," "would," "should," "could," or "may" are 
generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject 
to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our 
control. In addition, these forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions with respect to future business 
strategies and decisions that are subject to change. Actual results may differ materially from the results discussed 
in these forward-looking statements for the reasons, among others, discussed under the heading "Factors That May 
Affect Future Results" in Washington Mutual's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
WaMu to Strengthen Capital Position, Raising $7 Billion Anchored by a TPG Capital Investment; TPG Founding 
Partner David Bonderman to Join WaMu Board; Company E....
CONTACT: Washington Mutual, Inc.
Media Contact:
Derek Aney, 206-500-6094 (Seattle)
212-326-6075 (New York)
derek.aney@wamu.net
Investor Relations:
Alan Magleby, 206-500-4148 (Seattle)
212-702-6955 (New York)
alan.magleby@wamu.net
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 9, 2008
End of Document
Arthur D. Little: Search for Strategic Partnership for Brussels South - Charleroi Airport
Arthur D. Little: Search for Strategic Partnership for Brussels South - 
Charleroi Airport
Business Wire
March 3, 2008 Monday 10:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Transportation Writers
Length: 604 words
Dateline: BRUSSELS, Belgium 
Body
B.S.C.A.
B.S.C.A. is the company that operates the airport infrastructures of Brussels South Charleroi, which is owned by the 
Walloon Region via the SOWAER.
B.S.C.A. has experienced a strong growth over the last years thanks to:
•
Its ideal localisation (in the centre of a large catchment area)
•
The presence of Ryanair, a European leader in air transport, which operates one of its bases on that site
•
Modern infrastructures
The company has passed 2 million passengers in 2006, with a growth of over 14% p.a. since 2002. In order to 
pursue its future growth, it has just opened a brand-new, ultra-modern terminal capable of handling up to 5 million 
passengers per year, which will make it one of the largest regional airports in Europe.
Opening of shareholding structure to a strategic partnership
In order to reinforce its growth potential, the Walloon Government is considering opening the shareholding structure 
of B.S.C.A. to a strategic partner that can add an operational, commercial and financial value to the company. 
This strategic partnership would be carried out through the sale of the participation of the Walloon Region held on 
its behalf by the SOGEPA, i.e. 27.65%.
Procedure
In order to select the ideal partner for B.S.C.A., the Walloon Government decided to organise a transparent 
'invitation to tender' procedure, which respects the equal treatment of candidates. This procedure will be composed 
of three main phases:
•
Invitation to tender candidacy leading to a possible invitation to submit a non-binding offer
•
Pre-selection of a limited number of potential partners on the basis of non-binding offers
Arthur D. Little: Search for Strategic Partnership for Brussels South - Charleroi Airport
•
Selection of the preferred partner based on binding offers 
The Walloon Government has mandated Arthur D. Little, assisted by a legal counsel (CMS De Backer), to assist it 
in organising and managing the selection process (Phase I).
Call to Candidacy
A call to candidacy has been launched to all companies / groups interested in this strategic partnership.
If this partnership meets your strategic ambitions, we invite you to indicate your interest to participate to the 
selection process by sending a registered letter and an e-mail before the 25 March 2008 at midday exclusively to:
Monsieur Philippe BUELEN,
Chef de Cabinet du Ministre André ANTOINE
en charge de la politique aéroportuaire wallonne
rue d'Harscamp, 22
5000 NAMUR
E-mail: philippe.buelen@gov.wallonie.be
Your letter of interest should include the following:
•
The identity of the Group, its shareholding structure as well as a copy of the annual reports and accounts 
for the two last fiscal years
•
An indication of the elements that you believe important in terms of contributions that you could bring to 
B.S.C.A. and that justify your interest
•
The identity of the contact person mandated by your group to handle the file
All documents should be established in French and sent in three copies.
As soon as you have answered our invitation to tender candidacy, you may contact us in order to visit the airport 
and get access to publicly available information, but without the possibility to engage in discussions or get access to 
documents that will be provided during the course of the selection process.
Before 14 April 2008, you will be informed of the decision to accept your candidacy or not in order to continue the 
selection process, whose details will be then sent to the retained candidates.
The grounds of the Walloon Region's decision will be kept confidential so that candidates will not be entitled to 
obtain any information in that respect and will have no right to appeal against that decision.
CONTACT: Arthur D. Little - Benelux
Patrick DeBleser
+32 2761 7262
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 4, 2008
End of Document
SkyMall and GuestLogix Announce Agreement to Develop New On-Board Shopping Service for Airlines
SkyMall and GuestLogix Announce Agreement to Develop New On-Board 
Shopping Service for Airlines
Business Wire
February 20, 2008 Wednesday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Retail Writers
Length: 563 words
Dateline: PHOENIX & TORONTO 
Body
SkyMall, the industry's leading in-flight catalog shopping provider, and GuestLogix Inc. (TSX VENTURE:GXI), the 
leading provider of on-board retail technology and solutions to the airline industry, today announced a multi-year 
agreement to deliver a new on-board shopping service integrated with SkyMall's on-board catalogs.
Christine Aguilera, President of SkyMall, welcomed the deal:
"Our research shows that 73% of our customers made their buying decision on the plane and GuestLogix provides 
a platform that will allow us to take customer orders in-flight. Making it easy for our customers to 'ring up their sale' 
at 30,000 feet will help us close more impulse buys and offer more convenience to time-pressed travelers. We look 
forward to working with GuestLogix to provide an enhanced on-board shopping experience which will benefit both 
our airlines as well as busy travelers."
SkyMall pioneered in-flight catalog shopping, and has been the go-to catalog merchandiser within the airline 
industry for over 16 years. Their innovative product and distribution model make SkyMall the most compelling and 
efficient shopping medium in the sky today.
Commenting on the development, Tom Douramakos, President and CEO of GuestLogix, said:
"The combination of SkyMall's in-flight catalog with our on-board retail platform provides airlines substantial 
opportunity for ancillary revenue growth at a time when it's especially difficult to raise ticket prices. This agreement 
also exemplifies the potential of our Mobile Virtual StoreTMas an efficient channel that enables retail partners, 
operators and GuestLogix to benefit mutually from new on-board sales."
Serving more than 600 million passenger trips annually, GuestLogix offers the most popular on-board retail solution 
in the airline industry and serves as a channel for providers of in-flight entertainment, branded food and beverages, 
merchandising, the SkyMall catalog, duty-free products, travel and entertainment ticketing, destination-based 
products and services, gifts and flowers delivery, on-board currency exchange, Internet access, and more.
About SkyMall
SkyMall and GuestLogix Announce Agreement to Develop New On-Board Shopping Service for Airlines
SkyMall is a multi-channel, direct marketer offering high-quality, innovative merchandise from top direct marketers 
and manufacturers through its SkyMall catalog and web site, skymall.com. The SkyMall catalog is seen by 
approximately 88% of all passengers carried by U.S. airlines reaching more than 650 million air travelers annually. 
SkyMall also offers turn-key merchandise and fulfillment solutions for loyalty marketing programs. For more 
information, please visitwww.skymall.com.
About GuestLogix
GuestLogix is a leading provider of on-board retail technology and solutions to the passenger travel industry. The 
world's leading airline brands, including American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Air Canada, Alaska Airlines and Ryanair 
rely on GuestLogix to serve their customers daily. GuestLogix is publicly traded on the TSX Venture Exchange in 
Toronto (Symbol GXI). For more information, please visitwww.guestlogix.com.
© 2008 GuestLogix. All Rights Reserved.
CONTACT: GuestLogix
Josef Zankowicz, 647-500-1563 (Media and Analyst)
josefz@guestlogix.com
or
SkyMall
Casey Christ, 602-528-3284 (Media, Analyst and Sales)
cchrist@skymall.com
or
GuestLogix Europe
Dan Hayter, +44 7949 697872 (Sales)
dan.hayter@guestlogix.com
or
GuestLogix
Tony Ashe, 410-452-5940 (Sales)
tashe@guestlogix.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 21, 2008
End of Document
Detailed Data on Market Size and Segmentation for the Airlines in the United Kingdom Market
Detailed Data on Market Size and Segmentation for the Airlines in the United 
Kingdom Market
Business Wire
January 11, 2008 Friday 9:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 440 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c79214) has announced the addition of 
"Airlines in the United Kingdom" to their offering.
Our Airlines in the United Kingdom industry profile is an essential resource for top-level data and analysis covering 
the airlines industry. It includes detailed data on market size and segmentation, plus textual and graphical analysis 
of the key trends and competitive landscape, leading companies and demographic information.
Scope
•
Contains an executive summary and data on value, volume and/or segmentation.
•
Provides textual analysis of the industry's recent performance and future prospects.
•
Incorporates in-depth five forces competitive environment analysis and scorecards.
•
Includes a five-year forecast of the industry.
•
The leading companies are profiled with supporting key financial metrics.
•
Supported by the key macroeconomic and demographic data affecting the market.
Highlights
•
Detailed information is included on market size, measured by value and/or volume.
•
Five forces scorecards provide an accessible yet in depth view of the market's competitive landscape.
Why you should buy this report
•
Spot future trends and developments
•
Inform your business decisions
•
Add weight to presentations and marketing materials
•
Save time carrying out entry-level research 
Detailed Data on Market Size and Segmentation for the Airlines in the United Kingdom Market
Market Definition
The airlines industry comprises passenger air transportation, both scheduled and chartered, but excludes air freight 
transport. Industry volumes are defined as the total number of passengers enplaned at all airports within the country 
or region. Industry value is defined as the total revenue obtained by airlines from transporting these passengers. 
This avoids the double-counting of passengers. All currency conversions in this profile were carried out using 
constant 2006 average annual exchange rates.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CHAPTER 1 Market Overview
1.1 Market Definition
1.2 Research Highlights
1.3 Market Analysis
CHAPTER 2 Market Value
CHAPTER 3 Market Volume
CHAPTER 4 Market Segmentation I
CHAPTER 5 Market Segmentation II
CHAPTER 6 Five Forces Analysis
6.1 Summary
6.2 Buyer Power
6.3 Supplier Power
6.4 New Entrants
6.5 Substitutes
6.6 Rivalry
CHAPTER 7 Leading Companies
7.1 Ryanair Holdings plc
7.2 British Airways Plc
7.3 easyJet plc
7.4 bmi
CHAPTER 8 Market Forecasts
8.1 Market Value Forecast
8.2 Market Volume Forecast
CHAPTER 9 Macroeconomic Indicators
CHAPTER 10 Appendix
10.1 Methodology
10.2 Industry Associations
10.3 Related Research
For more information visithttp://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c79214
Source: Datamonitor
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 12, 2008
End of Document
Study the Competitive Landscape and Leading Companies in the Airlines in Germany Market
Study the Competitive Landscape and Leading Companies in the Airlines in 
Germany Market
Business Wire
January 11, 2008 Friday 9:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2008 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 441 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c79211) has announced the addition of 
"Airlines in Germany" to their offering.
Our Airlines in Germany industry profile is an essential resource for top-level data and analysis covering the airlines 
industry. It includes detailed data on market size and segmentation, plus textual and graphical analysis of the key 
trends and competitive landscape, leading companies and demographic information.
Scope
•
Contains an executive summary and data on value, volume and/or segmentation.
•
Provides textual analysis of the industry's recent performance and future prospects.
•
Incorporates in-depth five forces competitive environment analysis and scorecards.
•
Includes a five-year forecast of the industry.
•
The leading companies are profiled with supporting key financial metrics.
•
Supported by the key macroeconomic and demographic data affecting the market.
Highlights
•
Detailed information is included on market size, measured by value and/or volume.
•
Five forces scorecards provide an accessible yet in depth view of the market's competitive landscape.
Why you should buy this report
•
Spot future trends and developments
•
Inform your business decisions
•
Add weight to presentations and marketing materials
•
Save time carrying out entry-level research
Study the Competitive Landscape and Leading Companies in the Airlines in Germany Market
Market Definition
The airlines industry comprises passenger air transportation, both scheduled and chartered, but excludes air freight 
transport. Industry volumes are defined as the total number of passengers enplaned at all airports within the country 
or region. Industry value is defined as the total revenue obtained by airlines from transporting these passengers. 
This avoids the double-counting of passengers. All currency conversions in this profile were carried out using 
constant 2006 average annual exchange rates.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CHAPTER 1 Market Overview
1.1 Market Definition
1.2 Research Highlights
1.3 Market Analysis
CHAPTER 2 Market Value
CHAPTER 3 Market Volume
CHAPTER 4 Market Segmentation I
CHAPTER 5 Market Segmentation II
CHAPTER 6 Five Forces Analysis
6.1 Summary
6.2 Buyer Power
6.3 Supplier Power
6.4 New Entrants
6.5 Substitutes
6.6 Rivalry
CHAPTER 7 Leading Companies
7.1 Lufthansa
7.2 Air Berlin PLC & Co. Luftverkehrs KG
7.3 Germanwings GmbH
7.4 Ryanair Holdings plc
CHAPTER 8 Market Forecasts
8.1 Market Value Forecast
8.2 Market Volume Forecast
CHAPTER 9 Macroeconomic Indicators
CHAPTER 10 Appendix
10.1 Methodology
10.2 Industry Associations
10.3 Related Research
For more information visithttp://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c79211
Source: Datamonitor
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 12, 2008
End of Document
Spirit Airlines Ranks #1 in Email Brand Equity
Spirit Airlines Ranks #1 in Email Brand Equity
Business Wire
December 11, 2007 Tuesday 4:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Aviation Writers; Travel Writers
Length: 440 words
Dateline: MIRAMAR, Fla. 
Body
This week, Email Data Source, the leading provider of email competitive analysis data, ranked ultra low cost carrier 
Spirit Airlines as the number one airline in its latest Email Brand Equity Index(TM) ranking of marketers in the airline 
industry.
The study ranked airlines on the quality and effectiveness of their email marketing efforts, as well as the 
representation of their brands in third party e-mails. The Email Brand Equity Index(TM) is determined by compiling 
historical data on e-mail marketing messages and measuring a combination of factors, including the emails' 
perceived effectiveness in driving website traffic and the quality of the delivered e-mail.
The study, which included both low cost carriers and legacy airlines, ranked Spirit Airlines above JetBlue, 
Continental, Ryanair, Lufthansa, Delta, American Airlines, US Airways, Northwest Airlines and Icelandair.
"Although we already knew that our marketing was successful based on our sales results, this ranking serves as 
further third-party testament in affirming Spirit's innovative and edgy creative style," said Barry Biffle, Spirit's Senior 
Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. "Our strategic and methodical marketing efforts are one of our 
strengths which sets us apart from other airlines around the world."
Spirit posts ultra low fare sales and "top picks" travel packages on its website (www.spiritair.com) each week. 
Visitors can sign up to receive emails with low-fare deals to a variety of destinations throughout the U.S., Caribbean 
and Latin America.
Successful Spirit low-fare sales have included theFibonacci Sale(lead fare of $1),$24 Off for 24 Hours, and the$9 
Clearance Sale, as well as the most recent and highly publicizedMany Islands Low Farespromotion, which has 
received national coverage onABC News, MSNBC's Dan Abrams, FOX News' O'Reilly Factor,and more.
Travelers can also sign up to become a member of Spirit's $9 Fare Club and receive exclusive, private sale fares 
available to members only. Last week, members of Spirit's $9 Fare Club even received a negative fare promotion in 
which Spirit paid passengers to fly.
About Spirit Airlines
Spirit Airlines Ranks #1 in Email Brand Equity
Spirit Airlines, Inc. (www.spiritair.com) is the Ultra Low Cost Carrier (ULCC) in the United States, Latin America and 
Caribbean. Its all-Airbus fleet, the youngest in the Americas, flies more than 200 daily flights to 39 destinations. The 
company is based in Miramar, Florida, and employs 2,300 professionals.
CONTACT: Spirit Airlines, Inc., Miramar
Misty Pinson (North America), 954-918-9432
misty.pinson@spiritair.com
or
Juan Arbelaez E. (Latin America & Caribbean),
954-447-7856
juan.arbelaez@spiritair.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 12, 2007
End of Document
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for 'Rent' Ambassador Theatre Group to Support Mobile Ticketing
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for 'Rent'; Ambassador Theatre 
Group to Support Mobile Ticketing
Business Wire
November 21, 2007 Wednesday 8:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Entertainment Editors
Length: 754 words
Dateline: LONDON & DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Ticket Text, a Dublin based mobile technology company that provides a mobile event ticketing service, today 
announced that it is to sell, through its ticket-text.com website, tickets for Rent with Denise Van Outen at The Duke 
of York's Theatre in London's West End. The Duke of York Theatre is one of the 23 venues run by the Ambassador 
Theatre Group (ATG). ATG is currently the largest theatre group in the West End.
Ticket Text
Tickets are now available on the Ticket Text website,www.ticket-text.com. Using Ticket Text's innovative mobile 
technology, customers will receive their tickets as unique barcodes sent via text message straight to their mobile 
phone. Customers simply take their phone to the Duke of York's Theatre and then scan the barcode to gain 
admittance. Receiving tickets by SMS through Ticket Text saves money too because Ticket Text does not charge 
customers any over inflated postage and packing fees.
Welcoming this agreement, Helen Brownlee, Group Head of Sales for Ambassador Theatre Group said:
"Ambassador Theatre Group's association with ticket-text.com to sell tickets for Rent at the Duke of York's Theatre 
is the perfect accompaniment to our already implemented innovative pricing strategy for the show. This new 
relationship with ticket-text.com also reflects our marketing approach to Rent and the desire to attract younger 
audiences into our venues and remove the perceived barriers to their theatre attendance."
Ticket Text's CEO Mark McLaughlin commented
"Ticket Text is delighted to extend our developing relationship with London's West End and in particular, to work 
with the Ambassador Theatre Group, the largest theatre group in the West End."
He added
"Ticket Text is committed to bringing a new audience to the leading theatrical city in the world. The millions of 
Ryanair customers flying into London each year from all over Europe can purchase tickets that get sent direct to 
their mobile for London's best theatre shows viawww.ticket-text.com"
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for 'Rent' Ambassador Theatre Group to Support Mobile Ticketing
About Rent
Based on Puccini's La Bohème, the Broadway hit musical RENT broke convention when it first opened and was 
hailed by the New York Times as the return of the musical that dared to "take the culture's temperature and catch 
its tempo". Over a decade later, that temperature's changed. William Baker, Creative Director for Kylie Minogue and 
the visionary behind some of the most iconic pop images of recent years, brings together his cutting edge 
collaborators from the music industry to re-invent Jonathan Larson's award-winning musical RENT.
Denise Van Outen, Broadway and West End musical star, joins a vibrant and dynamic cast in the role of Maureen 
to create a modern-day RENT, remixed for the 21st century. For the first time in West End history, RENT has 
adopted a general admission policy similar to gigs and concerts. Like cinema seating, tickets are sold in advance, 
but seating is on a first come, first served basis. Avoid the queues and arrive early to choose a seat in the house 
from only £30.
About Ticket Text
Ticket Text (www.ticket-text.com) is a Dublin based start up company that is backed by a collection of Europe's 
leading entertainment companies and individuals. It has a dynamic approach to ticketing and is staffed by an 
innovative young team from the music, mobile, internet and ticketing industries. In July, Ryanair, Europe's largest 
low fares airline, and Ticket Text announced an agreement that will provide Ryanair's 52m customers with low-cost 
tickets for concerts, sport, theatres, galleries and exhibitions in Ireland, UK and the rest of Europe.
About The Ambassador Theatre Group
Ambassador Theatre Group (ATG) is currently the largest theatre group in the West End and separately, the 
second largest in the UK regions, with a total of 23 venues. ATG is also one of the country's foremost theatre 
producers and has been behind some of the most successful and innovative productions in Britain and 
internationally.
ATG's impressive portfolio of West End theatres include high profile and historic buildings such as the Comedy, 
Donmar Warehouse, Duke of York's, Fortune, Phoenix, Piccadilly, Playhouse and Savoy (both co-ownership and 
management of) and the two new venues at Trafalgar Studios. In 2007, ATG opened a New York office as part of 
the company's expansion in the United States and announced productions for Europe and Australia.
CONTACT: K Capital Source for Ticket Text
Jonathan Neilan/Mark Kenny, +353 1 631 5500
tickettext@kcapitalsource.com
or
Ticket Text Ltd
Mark Mc Laughlin, CEO
E: info@ticket-text.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 22, 2007
End of Document
Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: Marvel Entertainment , Nu Skin Enterprises and Ryanair Holdings
Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: Marvel Entertainment, Nu Skin Enterprises 
and Ryanair Holdings
Business Wire
November 6, 2007 Tuesday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 813 words
Dateline: CHICAGO 
Body
Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts 
discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog 
include:Marvel Entertainment(NYSE:MVL),Nu Skin Enterprises(NYSE:           NUS) andRyanair 
Holdings(Nasdaq:           RYAAY).
See the latest posts to the Analyst Blog by visiting:http://at.zacks.com/?id=2673
Here are highlights from Monday's Analyst Blog:
Marvel's Marvelous, Nu Skin & Ryanair OK
Superhero entertainment enterprise groupMarvel Entertainment(NYSE:MVL) posted a 55% positive earnings 
surprise; its 45 cents per share was north of 180% higher than the previous year's quarter. The company reported 
sales in the quarter of $123.64 million. So far today, the company is trading up about 18-and-a-half percent on the 
news.
With its more than 5000 characters, Marvel has a wide array of licensing and publishing opportunities. The 
company emphasizes feature films, DVD/home video, action figures and video games for its main sources of 
income. In addition to Spider-Man and X-Men franchises, new offerings will include Captain America and The 
Avengers.
Innovative direct-sellerNu Skin Enterprises(NYSE:NUS) generated a decent positive earnings surprise of 13% this 
morning, on income growth of just over 27%. Year-over-year, this is nearly a 37% improvement. Sales were 
reported to have reached $290.71 million. Still, the company is lagging so far this morning, down over 12%.
The company distributes its products exclusively through a network marketing system. It currently has a network of 
active distributors located throughout its markets that purchase products for resale to consumers and for personal 
consumption.
Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: Marvel Entertainment , Nu Skin Enterprises and Ryanair Holdings
Finally,Ryanair Holdings(Nasdaq:RYAAY) also surprised to the upside today, albeit by a relatively modest 5%. Its 
$1.24 per share improved nearly 40% over the same quarter a year ago. The airline servicing both the UK and 
Ireland currently provides over 100 flights per day on its fleet of Boeing 737s. However, the company is trading 
down nearly 6% in early trading today.
See the latest posts to the Analyst Blog by visitinghttp://at.zacks.com/?id=2645
About Zacks Equity Research
Zacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks 
to buy and which to sell for the long-term.
Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by 
industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. 
Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.
Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. 
Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visitinghttp://at.zacks.com/?id=2674.
About Zacks
Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a 
PhD in mathematics Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment 
results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks 
Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable 
stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email 
newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your 
time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros.
The performance of the Zacks Rank portfolios shown above for annual and year-to-date periods are the linked 
monthly total returns (price changes + dividends) of equal weighted hypothetical portfolios, consisting of those 
stocks with the indicated Zacks Rank, assuming monthly rebalancing and zero transaction costs. These are not the 
returns of actual portfolios. The hypothetical portfolios were created at the beginning of each month from Jan 1988 
forward based on the values of the Zacks Rank available to Zacks' clients before the beginning of each month. The 
portfolios created monthly from 1988 through September 2006 exclude ADRS and are comprised of stocks that 
have the indicated Zacks Rank and were covered by at least two analysts at the time of the stocks inclusion in the 
portfolio. Starting in October 2006 and going forward, the portfolios are comprised of all stocks with the indicated 
Zacks Rank and do not exclude ADRs, which is more reflective of the list of stocks that customers will find on the 
Zacks web sites. 2007 returns are for the period of Jan 1 - Jun 30, 2007. These performance numbers have been 
audited from 1995 through 2003 by Autschuler Melovan, a division of American Express Financial.
CONTACT: Zacks.com
Terry Ruffolo
Media Relations
312-265-9213
Visit:www.zacks.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 7, 2007
End of Document
The Five to Watch: Ascend Predicts Future Aviation StarsFirst A380 Passenger Flight Marks Dawn of Next 
Generation
The Five to Watch: Ascend Predicts Future Aviation StarsFirst A380 
Passenger Flight Marks Dawn of Next Generation
Business Wire
October 24, 2007 Wednesday 6:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 669 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
The first passenger flight of the new Airbus A380 mega-plane, between Singapore and Sydney, heralds more than 
just an exciting new era for Singapore Airlines and its long-haul passengers. Thursday's much anticipated journey 
could also be said to augur the beginning of a whole new era in aviation. And to mark the occasion international 
aviation consultancyAscendhas today released its predictions for global aviation's future stars.
Ascend has looked at the current crop of younger, smaller airlines: assessing their order books, routes, expansion 
plans, pricing, passenger numbers and all aspects of their business. Using its own analysis of the industry's 
prospects for the next decade, Ascend has filtered these assessments to predict which airlines have what it takes to 
join carriers such as British Airways, Singapore Airlines and American Airlines in aviation's big league.
Ascend's ones-to-watch list:
AirAsia - currently the largest low-cost carrier in Asia, the airline has aggressive expansion plans including 
launching low-cost long-haul flights to both Europe and Australia later this year.
Kingfisher Airlines - currently operating internal routes within India it has confident expansion plans including 
offering long-haul routes using wide-body aircraft. As with Virgin the Kingfisher brand is strong and diverse.
Air Berlin - has rapidly grown to become Germany's second largest airline following takeovers of dba, LTU and 
Condor. It currently offers a mix of low-cost and charter flights and has placed orders for Boeing's 787.
Virgin Blue - has established itself as a low-cost carrier mainly operating routes across Australia and New Zealand. 
The airline is planning to launch low-cost transpacific flights in 2008. This is the first time that any airline has 
challenged the established carriers on the Australia-USA route which is currently very limited in terms of choice of 
airline and fares.
TAM - the oldest of the five airlines, the well established Brazilian carrier started out by offering mostly internal 
flights and routes within South America. However it has recently stretched its wings and now has the largest fleet on 
its home continent. It now also offers long-haul routes to Europe and North America.
The Five to Watch: Ascend Predicts Future Aviation StarsFirst A380 Passenger Flight Marks Dawn of Next 
Generation
East bests West"Airlines come and airlines go," says Gehan Talwatte, Managing Director, Ascend. "But some stick 
around long enough to make a name for themselves and a few even break into the big league. In recent years, 
we've seen Emirates, Ryanair and Virgin Atlantic all make that step up. Now our analysis shows five new airlines 
that have what it takes to join the ranks of the industry leaders. We believe that all five have the business models, 
and the right expansion plans in place to capitalise on the sweeping changes we're expecting in the aviation market 
over the next decade."
According to Ascend, the focus of the global aviation industry is set shift dramatically away from the North America 
and Europe to Asia. Its data shows that of the current global aircraft fleet 38% are registered in North America, 26% 
in Europe and 18% in Asia. But when it comes to the backlog of aircraft on order Asian airlines outstrip these 
traditionally dominant markets: 32% have been ordered by Asian carriers, against 25% in North America and 24% 
by European airlines.
"We've been watching the growth of the Asian airlines for some time now," continues Talwatte. "And we now are 
reaching the point where that growth translates into real clout. This is the market that will increasingly set the 
industry agenda, and present the greatest opportunities. For example, airlines will be clamouring after the routes 
into major Asian cities, particularly into China. So whether we are talking about the capabilities to build into new 
aircraft or aircraft landing rights, it's the Asian voice that will increasingly be heard."
CONTACT: Tannissan Mae Communications for Ascend
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7243 4440
Kieran Miles
Kieran@tannissanmae.com
or
Nancy Prendergast
nancy@tannissanmae.com
www.ascendworldwide.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 25, 2007
End of Document
Sale of Premiership Football Tickets by Ticket Text Fulham FC Becomes First Premiership Club to Sign up to 
Ticket Text
Sale of Premiership Football Tickets by Ticket Text; Fulham FC Becomes 
First Premiership Club to Sign up to Ticket Text
Business Wire
October 15, 2007 Monday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Sports Editors; Technology Editors
Length: 645 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland & LONDON 
Body
Ticket Text, a Dublin based mobile technology company that provides a mobile event ticketing service, today 
announced that it is selling, through itsticket-text.comwebsite, premiership tickets for Fulham Football Club's home 
matches for the remainder of the 2007/08 season at Craven Cottage.
Ticket Text
Tickets are now available for Fulham FC on the Ticket Text website,www.ticket-text.com. Using Ticket Text's 
innovative mobile technology, customers will receive their tickets as unique barcodes sent via text message straight 
to their mobile phone. Customers simply take their phone to Craven Cottage and then scan the barcode to gain 
admittance. If customers happen to delete the text containing the barcode, they can receive additional texts from 
Ticket Text at no additional cost.
Welcoming this agreement Fulham FC's Head of Commercial Operations, Olly Dale said:
"I am delighted that Fulham is the first Premier League football club to work with Ticket Text, using their innovative 
ticketing solution to bring a new audience to watch Fulham at Craven Cottage."
Ticket Text's CEO Mark Mc Laughlin commented: 
"Ticket Text is delighted that customers wanting to purchase tickets for premiership football on the banks of the 
River Thames can now do so viawww.ticket-text.com. We look forward to providing our innovative service for the 
remainder of this season.
In addition, through our relationship with our travel partner, Ryanair, the millions of customers flying into London 
each year will now be able to easily purchase tickets for the most popular football league in the world 
throughwww.ticket-text.comor the low fares website           www.ryanair.com."
Tickets currently available on
Event
Date
Venue
Sale of Premiership Football Tickets by Ticket Text Fulham FC Becomes First Premiership Club to Sign up to 
Ticket Text
Year_07 Art Fair
11th - 14th October 
12:00
County Hall - London
Swimming with Sharks
Monday to Saturday 
19:30
Vaudeville Theatre - 
London
The Buddy Holly Story
Monday to Saturday 
19:30
Duchess Theatre - 
London
Fulham v Derby County
20/10/2007 15:00
Craven Cottage - 
London
Take That
20/10/2007 19:30
Paulau Sant Jordi - 
Barcelona
Fulham v Reading
03/11/2007 15:00
Craven Cottage - 
London
About Ticket Text
Ticket Text (www.ticket-text.com) is a Dublin based start up company that is backed by a collection of Europe's 
leading entertainment companies and individuals. It has a dynamic approach to ticketing and is staffed by an 
innovative young team from the music, mobile, internet and ticketing industries. In July, Ryanair, Europe's largest 
low fares airline, and Ticket Text announced an agreement that will provide Ryanair's 52m customers with low-cost 
tickets for concerts, sport, theatres, galleries and exhibitions in Ireland, UK and the rest of Europe.
How the 'mobile ticketing' process works
Customers buy a ticket from the Ticket Text website using their credit cards as normal. The ticket is sent to their 
mobile as a 2d barcode. The customer will also have a print-at-home version e-mailed to them which can also be 
scanned at the venue. They take the bar code ticket to the venue and present it at the gate to the scanner, where 
they will get quick and easy entry to the event avoiding queues at box offices. If they lose their phone or 
accidentally delete the bar code, they can send another SMS ticket through their Ticket Text account.
About Fulham FC
Founded in 1879, Fulham FC is the oldest professional football team in London. Fulham's long history began with 
some Sunday-school boys knocking a ball around on a park pitch.
About Craven Cottage
Craven Cottage has been the home ground Fulham F.C. since 1896. Craven Cottage's unique location on the 
banks of the River Thames and the closeness of the seats to the pitch make it one of the best places to watch 
premiership football in England.
CONTACT: K Capital Source for Ticket Text
Jonathan Neilan/Mark Kenny
T: +353 1 631 5500
tickettext@kcapitalsource.com
or
Ticket Text Ltd
Mark Mc Laughlin, CEO
info@ticket-text.com 
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 16, 2007
Sale of Premiership Football Tickets by Ticket Text Fulham FC Becomes First Premiership Club to Sign up to 
Ticket Text
End of Document
New Report Examines the Next Phase for the Aviation Broadband Markets
New Report Examines the Next Phase for the Aviation Broadband Markets
Business Wire
October 10, 2007 Wednesday 4:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 878 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c70932) has announced the addition of 
Aviation Broadband Markets to their offering.
With private jet owners clamouring for Internet access, and airlines developing new passenger data services, the 
broadband aviation market has recovered from the negative press attention it received after the Connexion 
cancellation. But as the industry shifts its focus from public intrigue to revenue-generating service features, many 
are wondering:
-To what extent will private jets dominate the market over the next four years?
-How will web pages at 30,000 feet differ from what users see on the ground?
-Why is passenger capacity a poor predictor of whether an aircraft will offer broadband service?
In addition to broadband installation forecasts by aircraft type, this report looks at how advancements in avionics 
and in-flight entertainment are filtering into the market for Internet connectivity in the skies. It also features analyses 
of the airlines and aircraft manufacturers planning the systems that will make passengers productive while they fly.
Chapter 1 Avionics, Economics, and Slot Machines in the Sky
1.1 Avionics and Aviation Broadband Economics
1.2 Commerce, Communications, and a Captive Audience
1.3 Not Another Post-Mortem on the Connexion Cancellation
1.4 Maximum Take-Off Weights vs. Passenger Capacity
1.5 Inavsat?
1.6 EV-DO Economics Need to Improve on the Ground Before they can Dominate the Skies
New Report Examines the Next Phase for the Aviation Broadband Markets
1.7 Messaging
1.8 Electronic Flight Bags
1.9 Antennas and Cabin Systems Diverging Economics
Chapter 2 Private Jet Manufacturers
2.1 Private Jets - All or Nothing
2.2 Gulfstream
2.3 Dassault
2.4 Cessna
2.5 Bombardier
2.6 Raytheon/Beechcraft
2.7 Boeing & Airbus Business Jets
Chapter 3 Very Light Jets
3.1 SUVs in the Sky
3.2 Eclipse Aviation
3.3 Adam Aircraft
3.4 Air Taxis
Chapter 4 Commercial Airlines
4.1 How Many Customers Per Plane to Break-Even?
4.2 Why Discounters will Lead the Market
4.3 Qantas
4.4 Ryanair
4.5 Virgin America
4.6 JetBlue
4.7 Southwest
Chapter 5 Projections of Systems Shipments and Service Revenue, by Aircraft Type
5.1 Forecast Methodology - What's Done vs. What's Said
5.2 VLJs
5.3 Private Jets and King Airs with MTOWs between 10,000 and 25,000 lbs.
5.4 Private Jets with MTOWs between 25,000 and 50,000 lbs.
5.5 Private Jets with MTOWs over 50,000 lbs.
New Report Examines the Next Phase for the Aviation Broadband Markets
5.6 Total Installations on Private Aircraft
5.7 Commercial Aircraft
5.7.1 737s & A320s
5.7.2 E-Series & Regional Jets
5.7.3 787s 
5.7.4 A330s
5.7.5 777s
5.7.6 A340s
5.7.7 A380s & 747s
5.7.8 Out-of-Production Commercial Models - 757s, MD-80s, A300s
Charts and Exhibits
Exhibit 1.1 Private Jets - Maximum Take-Off Weights and Passenger Capacity
Exhibit 1.2 Top Points of Embarcation - Cruise Liners and Commercial Aviation
Exhibit 2.1 Gulfstream New Aircraft Revenue
Exhibit 2.2 Boeing Business Jet Customers by Market Segment
Exhibit 3.1 Selected Air Taxi Aircraft and Service Areas
Exhibit 4.1 LiveTV Revenue and Installations on non-JetBlue aircraft
Exhibit 5.1 Broadband Installations in VLJs 2007-2011
Exhibit 5.2 Graphic - VLJs 2007-2011
Exhibit 5.3 Installations on Private Jets and King Airs with MTOWs between 10,000 and 25,000 lbs.
Exhibit 5.4 Broadband Installations on Private Jets and Kong Airs with MTOWs between 10,000 and 25,000 
pounds, 2007-2011
Exhibit 5.5 Broadband Installations on Private Jets with MTOWs between 25,000 and 50,000 lbs.
Exhibit 5.6 Broadband Installations on Private Jets with MTOWs between 25,000 and 50,000 pounds, 2007-2011
Exhibit 5.7 Broadband Installations on Private Jets with MTOWs above 50,000 lbs.
Exhibit 5.8 Installations of Broadband Systems on Private Jets with MTOWs over 50,000 lbs.
Exhibit 5.9 Total Installations on Private Jets and King Airs
Exhibit 5.10 Installations of Broadband Systems on Private Jets and King Airs, 2007-2011
Exhibit 5.11 Total Broadband Systems Installed on 737s
Exhibit 5.12 Total Broadband Systems Installed on A320s (including A318s, A319s, and A321s)
New Report Examines the Next Phase for the Aviation Broadband Markets
Exhibit 5.13 Total Broadband Systems Installed on E-170/E-190-series Jets
Exhibit 5.14 Total Broadband Systems Installed on CRJs and ERJs
Exhibit 5.15 Total Broadband Systems Installed on 787s
Exhibit 5.16 Total Broadband Systems Installed on A330s
Exhibit 5.17 Total Broadband Systems Installed on 777s
Exhibit 5.18 Total Broadband Systems Installed on A340s
Exhibit 5.19 Total Broadband Systems Installed on A380s
Exhibit 5.20 Total Broadband Systems Installed on 747s
Exhibit 5.21 Total Broadband Systems Installed on 757s, MD-80s, A300s, and other Out-of-Production Models
Exhibit 5.22 Total Broadband Systems Installed on Commercial Airliners
Exhibit 5.23 Installations of Broadband Systems on Commercial Jets
Exhibit 5.24 Total Revenue from Systems Installed on Commercial Airlines
Exhibit 5.25 Service Revenue from Systems Installed on Commercial Jets
Exhibit 5.26 Share of Broadband Systems Shipped on Private Jets vs. Commercial Jets, 2007
Exhibit 5.27 Share of Broadband Systems Shipped on Private Jets vs. Commercial Jets, 2011
Exhibit 5.28 Share of Broadband Systems on New Aircraft vs. Retrofits, 2007
Exhibit 5.29 Share of Broadband Systems on New Aircraft vs. Retrofits, 2011
For more information visithttp://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c70932
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood
Senior Manager
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 11, 2007
End of Document
XOJET Secures $363 Million in Financing from TPG and Lehman Brothers Global Principal Strategies ("GPS") 
New Capital, Board Additions to Support XOJET Expansion....
XOJET Secures $363 Million in Financing from TPG and Lehman Brothers 
Global Principal Strategies ("GPS"); New Capital, Board Additions to 
Support XOJET Expansion and Drive Growth;; Total XOJET Financing 
Raised to Date Now $542 Million
Business Wire
September 26, 2007 Wednesday 1:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 1044 words
Dateline: ATLANTA 
Body
XOJET, the world's fastest-growing private aviation company, today announced the close of $143 million in equity 
and debt financing from TPG and Lehman Brothers GPS, and an additional $220 million in aircraft lease financing 
from Lehman Brothers GPS. Advised by Morgan Stanley, this investment will allow XOJET to meet expanding 
customer demand for its innovative private jet ownership, leasing and on-demand solutions. XOJET will leverage 
the additional capital to grow its operations and expand its fleet to serve its rapidly expanding customer base. 
XOJET funding raised to date now totals $542 million.
As part of the investment, XOJET said that David Bonderman, founding partner, TPG; David Siegel, chairman and 
CEO, Gate Gourmet; and William E. McGlashan, Jr., partner and managing director, TPG Growth, will join the 
XOJET board of directors, bringing proven experience in growing enterprises across multiple industries.
"We are pleased to align with investment partners with such strong track records in aviation. TPG brings unique 
strength and experience to our company," said Paul Touw, president and CEO of XOJET. "Although customer 
demand for private jet travel has never been higher, there has been no significant innovation in this industry since 
fractional ownership was introduced more than 20 years ago. XOJET has completely changed this dynamic, and 
this financing positions us to continue our aggressive growth."
Today's financing news is the latest in a series of announcements made by XOJET at the National Business 
Aviation Association (NBAA) convention this week. Earlier the company announced the acquisition of 30 Cessna 
Citation X jets and 80 Bombardier Challenger 300 jets with a combined market value of $2.5 billion. These orders 
will increase XOJET's fleet to 127 super-midsize jets by 2012. With an unmatched value proposition for frequent 
private jet travelers, XOJET has raised more than $322 million in debt and equity financing, more than doubled 
revenues each year since inception, and obtained a yearly employee growth rate of over 160 percent, becoming the 
world's fastest-growing private aviation company.
XOJET Secures $363 Million in Financing from TPG and Lehman Brothers Global Principal Strategies ("GPS") 
New Capital, Board Additions to Support XOJET Expansion....
"Global demand for private jet travel continues to grow more than three times the rate of the broader economy," 
said Mr. Bonderman. "After studying this substantial $33 billion global industry, TPG concluded that XOJET's model 
is well positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities by delivering top quality service cost-effectively."
TPG is a leading global private investment firm with more than $30 billion of capital under management. The firm 
has been active in the commercial airline industry for more than a decade, with investments in Continental, America 
West and Ryanair. Most recently, TPG announced a major investment in Midwest Air Group. The XOJET 
investment marks TPG's first investment in private aviation.
"In a market where business travelers are increasingly switching from commercial aviation to private aviation, 
XOJET brings a game-changing approach to the table that puts the customer first while increasing efficiency, 
lowering costs and generating profits," commented Mr. McGlashan. "At a time when fractional growth has stagnated 
and commercial carriers are focused on cost-cutting, XOJET has rapidly distinguished itself as the most 
dependable, simple and cost-effective way to fly privately."
XOJET is the first company to provide a complete range of private jet ownership, leasing and on-demand travel 
solutions built especially for the most frequent business jet fliers. The company's strategy is to combine the service, 
access and exclusivity of owning a jet with the efficiencies and operational rigor of successful commercial airlines. 
XOJET's customers include more than 500 executives, leading corporations and influential individuals for whom 
flying private is essential.
XOJET's business model is differentiated by key strategies including:
•
Combining guaranteed availability and on-demand service to quadruple the industry averages for aircraft 
utilization, delivering dramatic cost efficiencies to customers;
•
A modern pilot culture where every XOJET pilot is empowered to provide exceptional customer service and 
where career progression is based on accomplishment, skills, and safety.
•
Investing in airline-grade scale and safety processes to significantly improve reliability, performance and 
customer service;
•
Standardizing on a single, popular aircraft class, a practice common to several successful commercial 
airlines.
About XOJET
XOJET is the first companytoprovide private jet ownership, leasing and on-demand travel solutions built especially 
for frequent business jet fliers. The company's strategy is to combine the service, access and exclusivity of owning 
a jet with the efficiencies and operational rigor of successful commercial airlines. Founded in 2001, XOJET officially 
launched its service in January 2006 and has quickly established itself as the fastest-growing private aviation 
company on record. Among its customers, XOJET is known for brand new jets, unmatched economics, stringent 
safety practices, exceptional service and a 99.5 percent on-time departure rate.
Most recently, XOJET has been recognized with a number of honors including being named a Robb Report "Best of 
Private Aviation" winner, an Inc. Magazine "Fastest Growing Company" and one of the best places to work in the 
Bay Area. For more information, visitwww.xojet.com.
About TPG Growth
TPG Growth is the venture, growth and mid-cap buyout investment platform of TPG, the global private investment 
firm. With more than $2.5 billion under management, TPG Growth targets investments in technology, life science, 
biotechnology, renewables, and consumer companies utilizing venture capital, growth equity, public equity and 
leveraged buyout structures. The firm is backed by the resources of TPG with more than $30 billion of assets under 
management and with successful travel investments that include America West, Continental, Hotwire and Sabre. 
TPG Growth has offices in the US, China and India. Please visitwww.tpg.com.
XOJET Secures $363 Million in Financing from TPG and Lehman Brothers Global Principal Strategies ("GPS") 
New Capital, Board Additions to Support XOJET Expansion....
CONTACT: CXO Communication
Kathleen Bowden, 617-247-0122 or 617-872-0914 (cell)
kathleen@cxocommunication.com
Morgan Mauritz, 650-462-2969 or 650-906-7200 (cell)
morgan@cxocommunication.com 
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 27, 2007
End of Document
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for Year_07 Art Fair
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for Year_07 Art Fair
Business Wire
September 20, 2007 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Entertainment Editors; Telecommunications Writers
Length: 744 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Ticket Text, a Dublin based mobile technology company that provides a mobile event ticketing service, today 
announced that it is to sell, through its ticket-text.com website, tickets for Year_07 Art Fair at the County Hall, 
London in October.
Ticket Text
Tickets are now available for Year_07 on the Ticket Text website,www.ticket-text.com. Using Ticket Text's 
innovative mobile technology, customers will receive their tickets as unique barcodes sent via text message straight 
to their mobile phone. Customers simply take their phone to County Hall and then scan the barcode to gain 
admittance. Receiving tickets by SMS through Ticket Text saves money too because Ticket Text does not charge 
customers any over inflated postage and packing fees.
Welcoming this agreement Year_07 Fair Organiser Simon Pittuck and Andrew Clarkin, commented:
"We are delighted that Year_07 is the first Art Fair to work with Ticket Text, using their innovative ticketing solution 
to bring a new audience to art in London."
Ticket Text's Arts Director Isobel Lyons commented:
"Ticket Text is delighted that customers wanting to purchase tickets for the best Art Events can now do so 
viawww.ticket-text.com. Ticket Text is committed to promoting art events to a larger audience in Europe, the 
millions of Ryanair customers flying into London each year will now be able to easily purchase tickets for events in 
the leading art capital of the world."
Year_07
Year_07, the London art fair scene's fastest-rising star, will showcase yet more globally breaking galleries and 
artists for its second year as it moves to its new location of County Hall, London. London gallery Keith Talent is 
again hosting the most vibrant and vital international art fair on the London circuit during Frieze Art Fair week. From 
11-14 October the rising galleries of tomorrow will come together under one roof.
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for Year_07 Art Fair
About Ticket Text
Ticket Text (www.ticket-text.com) is a Dublin based start up company that is backed by a collection of Europe's 
leading entertainment companies and individuals. It has a dynamic approach to ticketing and is staffed by an 
innovative young team from the music, mobile, internet and ticketing industries. In July, Ryanair, Europe's largest 
low fares airline, and Ticket Text announced an agreement that will provide Ryanair's 52m customers with low-cost 
tickets for concerts, sport, theatres, galleries and exhibitions in Ireland, UK and the rest of Europe. 
How the 'mobile ticketing' process works
Customers buy a ticket from the Ticket Text website using their credit cards as normal. The ticket is sent to their 
mobile as a 2d barcode. The customer will also have a print-at-home version e-mailed to them which can also be 
scanned at the venue. They take the bar code ticket to the venue and present it at the gate to the scanner, where 
they will get quick and easy entry to the event avoiding queues at box offices. If they lose their phone or 
accidentally delete the bar code, they can send another SMS ticket through their Ticket Text account.
About 2d barcodes
2d bar codes contain many times more information than the traditional barcodes found on the side of most products 
in a supermarket. One 2d barcode can contain, for example, entry to a venue, or dinner and drinks.
About Year_07
Year_07 is cementing its position after the success of its inaugural exhibition last year. With its anti-hierarchical 
policy and curatorial freedom, Year_07 is quickly becoming the major new generation event in London. The fair will 
showcase 58 dealers and artists from the most exclusive and cutting edge galleries in the world including the USA, 
Switzerland, France, Germany, The Netherlands and Belgium, and newcomers include Galerie Anne Barrault, Paris 
and CTRL Gallery, Houston. Year_07 breaks away from the standard mould of art fairs by allowing ambitious and 
experimental artists and galleries to respond to the architectural space imaginatively, without restraint. For further 
information about the fair visitwww.year07.co.uk.
About County Hall
Riverside venue County Hall will provide a richly traditional space of 19thcentury wood panelled rooms overlooking 
the Thames, in which artists are encouraged to engage with and make their own through their work - a reaction 
against the sterile and neutral atmosphere of conventional art fairs.
CONTACT: K Capital Source
Jonathan Neilan/Mark Kenny, +353 1 631 5500
tickettext@kcapitalsource.com
or
Ticket Text Ltd
Isobel Lyons
Arts Director
info@ticket-text.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
Dohop Unveils Connection Platform for Airlines Enables Low-Cost Airlines to Book Connected Flights in a 
Seamless Process without Adding Cost to the Ticket Price
Dohop Unveils Connection Platform for Airlines; Enables Low-Cost Airlines 
to Book Connected Flights in a Seamless Process without Adding Cost to 
the Ticket Price
Business Wire
September 18, 2007 Tuesday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Technology Editors
Length: 645 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Dohop Ltd., the global travel technology company, today at the Low Cost Airline Congress in London, announces 
the release of the Dohop Connection Platform for Airlines. The Dohop Connection Platform is a new technology that 
enables airlines to cross-sell and book connected flights with each other in a seamless way.
The Dohop Connection Platform offers a low-cost alternative to the legacy interline and code-share arrangements, 
and allows airlines to connect with each other without adding significant cost or complexities to their operation. It 
delivers a simple and cost effective way for airlines to help their customers find and book the best connecting flights 
without inflating ticket prices.
By facilitating connections for their customers, low cost airlines are set to enter a new era of growth and 
competitiveness. It will multiply the destinations offered by each airline, help them acquire new customers, and 
compete on routes that until now have been dominated by legacy network airlines. According to a study by Dohop, 
most airlines can multiply the number of destinations offered by connecting with other airlines.
Airline:
Direct
-
One Stop
Ryanair
170
-
311
EasyJet
70
-
550
Iceland Express 
9
- 
145
Germanwings
65
-
549
"If an airline wanted to offer connection flights in the past, the only option was a full service connection facilitated by 
legacy interline and complex code-share agreements that inflated ticket prices," says Frosti Sigurjonsson, CEO and 
co-founder of Dohop Ltd. "With the introduction of the Dohop Connection Platform, airlines now have a new 
alternative for connecting. This is especially relevant for low-cost airlines that have traditionally not offered 
connections. Now they can compete with connected flights and do it in a low-cost way."
Dohop Unveils Connection Platform for Airlines Enables Low-Cost Airlines to Book Connected Flights in a 
Seamless Process without Adding Cost to the Ticket Price
Airlines increasingly generate profits from selling ancillary services such hotel, rental car, and travel insurance. 
Facilitating connection flights with other airlines is a natural addition and will become an important source of referral 
revenues for low-cost airlines.
For the Traveler, better connected airline networks mean a wider range of options to choose from to save time and 
money. A study by Dohop indicates a potential for saving ten thousand man years through optimizing connections 
in Europe. Better connected airline networks can in time lead to significant fuel savings.
About Dohop Ltd.
Dohop Ltd. is a technology company serving the travel industry. Dohop Flight Planner is a consumer oriented travel 
search engine that delivers results from close to 700 airlines to virtually any destination worldwide, including over 
100 low cost airlines. It's innovative connection engine calculates the best connections. The service is currently 
localized in 15 languages, and most world currencies.
Dohop provides a range of enterprise infrastructure services for airlines such as the Dohop Connection Platform 
that allows airlines to easily partner and offer connections with other airlines; white-label search engine for airline 
websites; distribution and marketing services for the travel industry; and analytics and research services. Dohop 
offers a range of developer tools and for mash-up and integration of flight search into other services and web-sites, 
and a white label flight planner for airports, travel websites, and partners.
In 2005 Dohop launched the world's first flight planner for low-cost airlines and later expanded it to include all 
scheduled flights worldwide. The Dohop Flight Planner has been recommended by travel editors of major media 
including CNN.com, BBC.co.uk, Times.co.uk. Dohop ltd. holds the Travel Mole Web Awards 2006 for best travel 
technology and was in 2007 nominated to the Innovator Awards by the Travel Industry Association of America. 
CONTACT: Dohop
Kristinn Thorleifsson, +354-561-4848
kt@dohop.com
Press center:http://www.dohop.com/press/
Website:           http://www.dohop.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for Buddy - the Buddy Holly Story
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for Buddy - the Buddy Holly Story
Business Wire
August 28, 2007 Tuesday 10:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Entertainment Editors; Telecommunications Writers
Length: 705 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Ticket Text, a Dublin based mobile technology company that provides a mobile event ticketing service, today 
announced that it is to make available, through its ticket-text.com website, tickets for Buddy, The Buddy Holly Story 
at The Duchess Theatre in London's West End.
Ticket Text
Tickets are now available for Buddy on the Ticket Text website,www.ticket-text.com. Using Ticket Text's innovative 
mobile technology, customers will receive their tickets as unique barcodes sent via text message straight to their 
mobile phone. Customers simply take their phone to the Duchess Theatre and then scan the barcode to gain 
admittance. Receiving tickets by SMS through Ticket Text saves money too because Ticket Text does not charge 
customers any over inflated postage and packing fees.
Welcoming this agreement Nimax Chief Executive Nica Burns, said:
"I am delighted that Nimax is the first West End theatre company to work with Ticket Text, using their innovative 
ticketing solution to bring a new audience to London theatre"
Ticket Text's Chairman Tim Delaney commented
"Ticket Text is delighted that customers wanting to purchase tickets for the best West End shows can now do so 
viawww.ticket-text.com. The millions of Ryanair customers flying into London each year will now be able to easily 
purchase tickets for the leading theatre city in the world"
The Buddy Holly Story
Over forty years ago, the man who changed the face of popular music tragically died in a plane crash aged 22. Now 
Buddy - The Buddy Holly Story tells of the three years in which he became the World's top recording artist with a 
show that features over twenty of Buddy Holly's greatest hits including 'Peggy Sue', 'That'll Be The Day', 'Oh Boy', 
'Rave On', Heartbeat' and 'Raining In My Heart'.
Ticket Text Announces Sale of Tickets for Buddy - the Buddy Holly Story
'Buddy' has had audiences on their feet in every corner of the globe. 'The World's most successful rock 'n' roll 
musical is a toe tapping, hand clapping extravaganza which will have you 'up and dancing in the aisles'.
About Ticket Text
Ticket Text (www.ticket-text.com) is a Dublin based start up company that is backed by a collection of Europe's 
leading entertainment companies and individuals. It has a dynamic approach to ticketing and is staffed by an 
innovative young team from the music, mobile, internet and ticketing industries. In July, Ryanair, Europe's largest 
low fares airline, and Ticket Text announced an agreement that will provide Ryanair's 52m customers with low-cost 
tickets for concerts, sport, theatres, galleries and exhibitions in Ireland, UK and the rest of Europe.
How the 'mobile ticketing' process works
Customers buy a ticket from the Ticket Text website using their credit cards as normal. The ticket is sent to their 
mobile as a 2d barcode. The customer will also have a print-at-home version e-mailed to them which can also be 
scanned at the venue. They take the bar code ticket to the venue and present it at the gate to the scanner, where 
they will get quick and easy entry to the event avoiding queues at box offices. If they lose their phone or 
accidentally delete the bar code, they can send another SMS ticket through their Ticket Text account.
About 2d barcodes
2d bar codes contain many times more information than the traditional barcodes found on the side of most products 
in a supermarket. One 2d barcode can contain, for example, entry to a venue, or dinner and drinks.
About Nimax Theatres
On the 26th September 2005, producers Nica Burns and Max Weitzenhoffer purchased the Apollo, Lyric, Duchess 
and Garrick Theatres from Andrew Lloyd Webber, creating Nimax Theatres Limited. The Vaudeville Theatre, solely 
owned by Max Weitzenhoffer, completes the Nimax portfolio.
About The Duchess Theatre
The Duchess is one of the youngest and smallest West End theatres. The building was originally promoted by 
Arthur Gibbons and designed by architect Ewen Barr to overcome objections about ancient lights which had 
prevented previous building on the small site. The interior decoration as it is today was introduced in 1934 under the 
supervision of Mary Wyndham Lewis, wife of J B Priestley.
CONTACT: K Capital Source
Jonathan Neilan / Mark Kenny, +353 1 631 5500
tickettext@kcapitalsource.com
or
Ticket Text Ltd
Mark Mc Laughlin
CEO
info@ticket-text.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 29, 2007
End of Document
Polish Airports Served 15.4 Million Passengers in 2006 According to This New Report
Polish Airports Served 15.4 Million Passengers in 2006 According to This 
New Report
Business Wire
August 20, 2007 Monday 10:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Transportation Writers
Length: 351 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c66109) has announced the addition of 
"IntelliNews Polish Transportation Report" to their offering.
IntelliNews Polish Tourism Sector Report offers an extensive summary of the Polish tourism market. The report 
includes complete coverage of the latest developments as well as the latest corporate news accompanied by 
statistical data. This sector report is ideal to keep you abreast on recent company and industry news. Written by 
local analysts, it is a unique market and business intelligence analysis, tailored to save time by providing in-depth 
information, while helping you to make confident and informed business decisions. The report covers the period 
July 2006 - January 2007.
According to the Civil Aviation Office (ULC), Polish airports served 15.4m passengers in 2006, which translates into 
a 34% y/y growth. Analysts claim that this year may prove to be slightly worse; still the upward trend is to be 
maintained. Passengers' traffic at the Polish airports is expected to go up by 20% y/y in 2007, to 18m passengers.
Key Points Outlined in This Report
- Passengers' air traffic to increase by 20% y/y in 2007
- Budget airlines take 45% of Polish air market
- KGHM might purchase LOT's shares
- LOT to be floated at the turn of 2007/2008
- Fischer Air re-launches operations
- GUS: Demand for rail transportation goes up in 
- Grupa PKP allegedly to break even in 2007
Polish Airports Served 15.4 Million Passengers in 2006 According to This New Report
- CTL Logistics wants to debut on WSE
- GDDKiA to boost road spending to PLN 11bn
- Warsaw subway in dire straits due to no state
- MPK to issue bonds worth PLN 166m
- LNG gasport to be build in Swinoujscie
Companies Mentioned Include:
- LOT
- Wizz Air
- Ryanair
- Centralwings
- Lufthansa
- easyJet
- Fischer Air Polska
- SkyEurope
- Emirates Airlines
- Warbud
- PKP
- PKP Intercity
- PKP PLK
- CTL Logistics
- Arriva and PCC Rail
- ITD
- Budimex-Dromex
- GTC
- Autostrada Wielkopolska
- Pekaes
- MPK
- PKP SKM
- Euroafrica
For more information visithttp://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c66109
Polish Airports Served 15.4 Million Passengers in 2006 According to This New Report
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
GE Money Signs European Deal with Ryanair Co-branded credit card launched
GE Money Signs European Deal with Ryanair; Co-branded credit card 
launched
Business Wire
August 2, 2007 Thursday 11:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 577 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
GE Money, the global consumer lending unit of GE and Ryanair today announced that they have signed a deal 
which will see GE Money provide co-branded credit cards for Europe's largest low fares airline, across a number of 
European Markets.
The new Ryanair credit card was formerly launched today in the UK and will be introduced later in the year in two 
additional markets, Poland and Sweden. The agreement, which positions GE Money as Ryanair's European credit 
card partner, also allows for the roll out of the card across other markets where Ryanair and GE Money operate. 
The card will be issued in association with Mastercard in the UK and will be available through Ryanair.com and at 
selected airports.
Cardholders will benefit from a rewards programme, based on their usage and spend, which will allow them redeem 
free flights across Ryanair's extensive network of over 500 routes. Consumers can also transfer from an existing 
credit card provider to the Ryanair Mastercard with a 0% offer for 6 months on all balance transfers.
Commenting on the agreement Des O'Shea, Chief Commercial Officer of GE Money EMEA said;
"We are delighted to be selected by Ryanair as their partner of choice for its credit card. Both our organisations 
have an extensive presence across Europe coupled with an extensive customer base. We are also high growth 
companies with a keen focus on delivering value to the customer.
Our pan-European presence puts us in a unique position to offer partners, like Ryanair, best in class product 
knowledge and expertise with local market know-how. The development of these partnerships is a key platform of 
our organic growth strategy for the EMEA region."
Michael Cawley, COO and Deputy CEO of Ryanair said;
"Ryanair's new GE Money credit card is the icing on the cake for our passengers who already enjoy Europe's 
lowest fares and best punctuality. This card offers competitive rates, free flights and a programme full of rewards for 
our millions of loyal customers".
GE Money Signs European Deal with Ryanair Co-branded credit card launched
GE Money has over 130 million customers worldwide with operations in 54 countries, earnings of US $3.5 billion 
and assets of $190 billion. It operates multi market partnerships that include Apple, Dell, eBay/PayPal, Expert, 
Walmart (ASDA), Avon, Kia, Debenhams andthe Metro Group in the EMEA region.
Ryanair is Europe's largest low fares airline and in the coming year will carry over 50m passengers on 512 routes 
across 136 airports in 26 countries with a fleet of 137 brand new Boeing 737-800 aircraft.
Editors Notes:
About GE Money
GE Moneya unit of General Electric Company, with $190 billion in assets, is a leading provider of credit services to 
consumers, retailers and auto dealers in 54 countries around the world. GE Money, based in Stamford, Conn., 
offers a range of financial products globally, including private label credit cards, personal loans, bank cards, auto 
loans and leases, mortgages, corporate travel and purchasing cards, debt consolidation and home equity loans and 
credit insurance. More information can be found online atwww.gemoney.com
GE Money EMEA
GE Money first established a presence in EMEA in 1992. Today GE Money operates in 25 countries in the region 
and employs over 24,000 employees. GE Money EMEA has assets of $88.7 billion (2006) and NI of $1.6 billion. 
The region accounts for approximately 45% of the total global assets of GE Money.
CONTACT: GE Money
Hugh J. Gillanders
Tel:+353 1 4052721
Fax:+353 1 4021114
M: +353 87 2901511
hugh.gillanders@ge.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Ticket Text Launches Low Cost Ticketing on WWW.RYANAIR.COM Win 20 Free Flights to See Take That in 
Barcelona
Ticket Text Launches Low Cost Ticketing on WWW.RYANAIR.COM; Win 20 
Free Flights to See Take That in Barcelona
Business Wire
July 20, 2007 Friday 8:19 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 614 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Ryanair, Europe's largest low fares airline, and Ticket Text, a Dublin based mobile technology company, today 
(20th July) announced an agreement that will provide Ryanair's 52m customers with low-cost tickets for concerts, 
sport, theatres, galleries and exhibitions in Ireland, UK and the rest of Europe.
Using Ticket Text's innovative mobile technology, customers will receive their tickets as unique barcodes sent via 
text message straight to their mobile phone. Customers simply take their phone to the venue and then scan the 
barcode to gain admittance.
Receiving tickets by SMS through Ticket Text saves money too because Ticket Text will not charge their customers 
any over inflated postage and packing fees. To celebrate today's launch, the first twenty customers to buy tickets 
for the Take That concert in Barcelona using Ticket-text's revolutionary service will receive a FREE Ryanair return 
flight from London.
Welcoming this agreement Ryanair's Head of Ancillary Revenue, Santina Doherty said:
"Thanks to Ryanair's low fares, it has never been cheaper or easier to travel to concerts and other live events 
around Europe. Ticket Text's innovative and easy to use service provides an ideal match for passengers who want 
to combine their trip abroad with concerts, festivals and other live events. This is a fast growing part of our business 
and we look forward to developing it with the help of Ticket Text."
Ticket Text's Chairman and music industry veteran Tim Delaney commented:
"I have seen how technology has disrupted the music industry. We have now reached the tipping point where 
technology will start to impact the business model of the ticketing industry. Ryanair's participation combined with 
Ticket Text's innovative ticketing solution will contribute significantly to this change. Ryanair has significant 
presence in all of Europe's key ticketing markets so there is a natural fit to be the leading ticket seller in all these 
markets with more events on sale to be added every week."
Notes to Editors
Ticket Text Launches Low Cost Ticketing on WWW.RYANAIR.COM Win 20 Free Flights to See Take That in 
Barcelona
How the 'mobile ticketing' process works
Customers buy a ticket from the Ticket Text website using their credit cards as normal. The ticket is sent to their 
mobile as a 2d barcode. The customer will also have a print-at-home version e-mailed to them which can also be 
scanned at the venue. They take the bar code ticket to the venue and present it at the gate to the scanner, where 
they will get quick and easy entry to the event avoiding queues at box offices. If they lose their phone or 
accidentally delete the bar code, they can send another SMS ticket through their Ticket Text account.
About 2d barcodes
2d bar codes contain many times more information than the traditional barcodes found on the side of most products 
in a supermarket. One 2d barcode can contain, for example, entry to a venue, or dinner and drinks.
About Ryanair
Ryanair is Europe's largest low fares airline with 20 bases and 499 low fare routes across 25 countries. Ryanair 
currently employs a team of 4,500 people and expects to carry approximately 52m scheduled passengers in the 
current fiscal year.
About Ticket Text
Ticket Text (www.ticket-text.com) is a Dublin based start up company that is backed by a collection of Europe's 
leading entertainment companies and individuals. It has a dynamic approach to ticketing and is staffed by an 
innovative young team from the music, mobile, internet and ticketing industries. It has developed a leading mobile 
ticketing solution by combining best of breed technology partners (AudienceView and Gavitec).
CONTACT: Ryanair
Peter Sherrard, 353 1 812 1228
or
Murray Consultants
Pauline McAlester, 353 1 498 0300
or
Ticket Text Ltd
Mark Mc Laughlin
info@ticket-text.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 21, 2007
End of Document
Ireland's Holiday Uptake to Rise by 7% by 2010, Expenditure by 11%
Ireland's Holiday Uptake to Rise by 7% by 2010, Expenditure by 11%
Business Wire
June 6, 2007 Wednesday 8:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 1075 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c58811) has announced the addition of 
Holidays - The Irish Abroad - Ireland 2007 to their offering.
The 1990s was undoubtedly the decade of the rise of the low-cost airline. Traditional carriers such as Aer Lingus in 
RoI and British Airways in NI gradually saw their market share eroded by smaller competitors such as Ryanair in 
RoI, and easyJet and bmibaby in NI. The demand for no-frills travel was unprecedented, with a large number of 
consumers more than willing to forego in-flight meals, complementary alcoholic drinks and entertainment in the 
interest of a cheaper holiday experience. 
This report seeks to outline the popularity of foreign holidays among Irish tourists, in addition to profiling a selection 
of the major travel providers in RoI and NI.
Introduction
Definitions
Geographical, national and regional definitions
Conversion factors
BMRB Target Group Index sample sizes
Abbreviations
Executive Summary
4 million holidays taken in 2005, spending tops EUR 6 billion
Multiple holidays become a reality
Growth in independent booking and 'dynamic packaging'
RoI consumers rush to the airports - especially the young
Beach holidays and city breaks remain the most popular
Competition to increase as new destinations emerge
Market Drivers
Goodbye travel agent - hello Internet?
Figure 1: Percentage of population with Internet access, RoI and NI,
2001-06
Economic factors
Figure 2: Health of the ecomony, RoI and NI, 2005-07 (% real change
unless indicated otherwise), 2005-07
Ireland's Holiday Uptake to Rise by 7% by 2010, Expenditure by 11%
Will baggage charges deter holidaymakers?
The young, free and single - bitten by travelling bug
Figure 3: Average age at marriage, RoI and NI, 2000-05
Shrinking family sizes spell trouble for providers - or do they?
Figure 4: Average household size (number of persons), RoI and NI,
2000, 2005 and 2010
Demand for family holidays in decline?
Figure 5: Household composition trends, RoI and NI, 2000-05
Salaries on the rise in RoI and NI
Figure 6: Net income per capita, RoI, NI and UK, 2000-05
Growing trend for cheaper holidays in RoI...
Figure 7: Average spend on last holiday, RoI, 2002-06
...but are NI holidaymakers losing interest?
Figure 8: Average spend on last holiday, NI, 2002-06
Market Size
Over 4 million holidays taken in 2005
Figure 9: Total volume of, and expenditure on holidays, all Ireland,
2001-05
Holiday expenditure exceeds EUR 4bn in RoI, GBP 1bn in NI
Figure 10: Total volume of, and expenditure on foreign holidays, RoI
and NI, 2001-05
RoI holidays up a third on 2001 - 10% in NI
Market Segmentation
European destinations most popular with RoI consumers...
Figure 11: Number of visits abroad, by destination, RoI, 2000-05
...as well as with NI holidaymakers
Figure 12: Visits abroad, by destination, NI, 2005
Crossing the border for a break
Figure 13: Numbers of consumers travelling within Europe, by
destination, NI, 2005
Company Profiles
Low-cost/discount carriers
Aer Arann
Bmibaby
CityJet
easyJet plc
Figure 14: easyJet financial results, 2002-06
Flybe
Figure 15: Flybe destinations, 2006
Germanwings
Figure 16: Germanwings destinations, 2006
Jet2
MyTravelLite
Ryanair
Figure 17: Ryanair destinations, 2006
Figure 18: Ryanair performance highlights, 2005 and 2006
Travel agent company profiles
Budget Travel
eBookers.com
Expedia.com/expedia.co.uk
First Choice Holidays plc
Figure 19: First Choice Holidays Plc financial highlights, 2004 and
2005
Lastminute.com
Terra Travel
Thomson
Thomas Cook
Going Places
Long-haul and flag carriers
Aer Lingus
Ireland's Holiday Uptake to Rise by 7% by 2010, Expenditure by 11%
Figure 20: Aer Lingus financial results, 2003-05
Figure 21: Aer Lingus destinations, 2006
British Airways
Figure 22: BA financial results, 2003-06
British Midland (bmi)
Figure 23: bmi destinations, 2006
Virgin Atlantic
Figure 24: Virgin Atlantic financial performance, 2003-06
The Consumer
Who takes holidays?
Figure 25: Consumers taking at least one holiday (as % of population),
RoI and NI, 2001-05
Figure 26: Consumers taking at least one holiday in the last 12 months
by gender, age and socio-economic group, RoI and NI, 2004 and 2006
RoI consumers take to the skies
'Wander-lust' takes hold of younger consumers in RoI
Are holidays becoming more affordable?
Multiple holidays a necessity for some
Figure 27: Number of holidays taken by those who had gone on holiday
in the previous year, RoI and NI, 2002-06
Types of holiday
Figure 28: Penetration of selected holiday types for last holiday,
RoI, 2002-06
Short breaks also gaining popularity in NI
Figure 29: Penetration of selected holiday types for last holiday, NI,
2002, 2004 and 2006
Length of stay
Figure 30: Length of stay for last holiday, RoI and NI, 2002, 2004 and
2006
Accommodation
Figure 31: Accommodation choices of holidaymakers, last holiday, RoI
and NI, 2002, 2004 and 2006
Where do holidaymakers go to book?
Figure 32: Holiday arrangement methods, last holiday, RoI and NI,
2002, 2004 and 2006
Enormous surge in Internet bookings
Figure 33: Booking channels used by holidaymakers, last holiday, RoI
and NI, 2004 and 2006
Attitudes towards holidays
Figure 34: Agreement with selected holiday-related attitudinal
statements, RoI and NI, 2003 and 2006
Mainstream media less popular as a holiday information source
Domestic travel quickly losing appeal
Beach holidays becoming a cliche for RoI consumers
The Future
Independent booking to further erode travel agent market share?
Emerging destinations
Rising interest in culture and exploration, particularly in RoI
Will oil prices impact upon the cost of travel?
Figure 35: Trends in crude oil prices, 2000-06
Will fuel duty hikes put NI holidaymakers off?
Forecast
All-Ireland holiday market to expand
Figure 36: Forecast volume and value of foreign holidays, all Ireland,
2006-10
RoI holiday uptake to rise by 7% by 2010, expenditure by 11%
Figure 37: Forecast volume and value of foreign holidays, RoI, 2006-10
Slow but sustained growth in NI by 2010
Figure 38: Forecast volume and value of foreign holidays, NI, 2006-10
Appendix
Ireland's Holiday Uptake to Rise by 7% by 2010, Expenditure by 11%
Lifestage
Figure 39: Lifestage definitions and lifestages as percentage of
population, RoI and NI, 2005
Figure 40: Forecast population change (000s), by age group, RoI,
2000-20
Figure 41: Forecast population change (000s), by age group, NI,
2000-20
Companies Mentioned:
Budget Travel
eBookers.com
Expedia.com
First Choice Holidays plc
Lastminute.com
Terra Travel
Thomson
Thomas Cook
Going Places
Aer Lingus
British Airways
British Midland (bmi)
Virgin Atlantic
For more information visithttp://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c58811
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 7, 2007
End of Document
Mandala Names Brady Managing Director and CEO
Mandala Names Brady Managing Director and CEO
Business Wire
June 4, 2007 Monday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Aviation Writers
Length: 573 words
Dateline: JAKARTA, Indonesia 
Body
PT Mandala Airlines today announced that Warwick Brady has been named the airline's new Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer. Brady brings to Mandala a wealth of world class airline experience, including airline 
management in emerging aviation markets. Brady will join Mandala on July 1, 2007.
"Warwick's experience in developing a new generation airline in the competitive Indian and Western European 
markets, his focus on operations and safety, and his ability to drive airline strategy make him an ideal choice to lead 
Mandala Airlines," said Diono Nurjadin, Mandala's Chairman. "The addition of Warwick to our team will provide 
Mandala with an accomplished and battle-tested leader as we modernize operations and expand our reach in the 
Indonesian travel market."
For the past two years Brady, 42, has served as Chief Operating Officer of Air Deccan, India's second largest 
airline. Before joining Deccan, Brady held several senior management positions at Ryanair, Europe's most 
successful low fares carrier. Prior to that, he was a commercial jet pilot with Britannia Airways. Of his new 
opportunity at Mandala, Brady said, "Indonesia, the third fastest growing aviation market after India and China, 
offers tremendous opportunity for a modern, well managed, new generation, low fares airline. I look forward to 
working with the management team to make Mandala Indonesia's leading airline offering safe and affordable travel 
for millions of travelers."
Brady earned an MBA and a Diploma in Business Management from Henley Management College. He also holds 
an Airline Transport Pilots License.
In 2006, Mandala was acquired by Cardig International and Indigo Partners. The owners have undertaken an 
aggressive growth plan designed to modernize the airline's fleet and improve all aspects of operations including 
safety compliance, flight operations, and engineering and management systems. Mandala has committed to a 
program for replacing the airline's existing fleet with Airbus A320 family aircraft and recently entered into a long 
term maintenance agreement for the Airbus fleet with Singapore Airlines Engineering Company (SIAEC).
Information regarding PT Mandala Airlines
Mandala Names Brady Managing Director and CEO
Mandala Airlines was established in 1969 and is one of the pioneers in Indonesia's commercial aviation business. 
With a current fleet of nine aircraft, Mandala Airlines currently serves 18 destinations. Mandala is committed to 
providing safe, reliable travel offering low fares and superior customer service.
About Cardig International
Cardig International is based in Indonesia and is a business group that focuses in the commercial aviation industry. 
Cardig is involved in aviation-related services, logistics, catering, and food distribution. Cardig's track record also 
includes the trust bestowed upon them by UPS for international courier services, Panasonic for trucking and 
logistics, SIA Engineering Company for aircraft maintenance and Singapore Airport Terminal Services (SATS) for 
airport services. 
About Indigo Partners LLC
Indigo Partners is a private equity firm that specializes in acquisitions and strategic investment in the aviation and 
aerospace industries. Indigo has shareholdings in a number of international airline companies in Europe, Asia and 
United States. Indigo is based in Phoenix, Arizona, USA with offices in Singapore which manage its businesses in 
the Asia-Pacific region.
CONTACT: For Indigo Partners
Caroline Luz, 203-656-2829
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 5, 2007
End of Document
JetBird Appoints Stefan Vilner as CEO CCO of Sterling Airlines and Chairman of ELFAA Joins JetBird
JetBird Appoints Stefan Vilner as CEO; CCO of Sterling Airlines and 
Chairman of ELFAA Joins JetBird
Business Wire
May 21, 2007 Monday 6:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers
Length: 858 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland & ZUG, Switzerland 
Body
JetBird AG ('JetBird' or the 'Company'), the first Pan-European, low cost executive jet operator, today announced 
the appointment of Mr Stefan Vilner as CEO. Mr. Vilner joins JetBird from Sterling Airlines, Europe's fourth largest 
low-cost airline, where he was Chief Commercial Officer (CCO). Stefan is also Chairman of the European Low 
Fares Airline Association (ELFAA).
Stefan Vilner has been CCO at Sterling Airlines for the past four years where he was responsible for the airline's 
revenue and yield management, advertising and branding, distribution and product development. Mr Vilner headed 
the airline's commercial efforts as they turned a business with combined losses of (EURO)120 million into a 
profitable company within one year. Stefan's achievements with Sterling include growing revenue by 42% over the 
past financial year and cutting distribution costs by 25%. Mr Vilner was also responsible for the migration of 95% of 
Sterling's sales to its online booking platform. Europe's fourth largest low-cost airline, Sterling Airlines was formed in 
2005 by the merger of Sterling Airways and Maersk Air. Sterling Airlines is Scandinavia's largest low-cost carrier. 
The ELFAA, of which Mr Vilner is Chairman and a former President, was established to represent and protect the 
needs of low cost airlines and their customers. Its members include Europe's two largest low cost carriers, Ryanair 
and Easyjet.
Domhnal Slattery, Founder & Chairman of JetBird, commented "We are delighted to announce the appointment of 
Stefan Vilner as CEO of JetBird. JetBird's business model utilises the operating principles of successful low-cost 
commercial carriers to deliver a premium private jet experience at a significantly lower price point than existing 
players. Stefan's knowledge and track record in the European low-cost airline industry will be key to delivering 
compelling value for our customers."
Mr Slattery added "Web based sales will be JetBird's preferred method of distribution, and Stefan's expertise in this 
area will be extremely beneficial as we come to market. Stefan will now lead the JetBird team to bring Europe's first 
low-cost on-demand private jet operator to our first flight in April, 2009."
JetBird Appoints Stefan Vilner as CEO CCO of Sterling Airlines and Chairman of ELFAA Joins JetBird
Stefan Vilner, incoming JetBird CEO, added "I am delighted to be joining Domhnal and the team at JetBird. We 
have a very exciting proposition that will revolutionise the private jet market marking the private travel experience 
widely available to the corporate travel market and the mass affluent."
Mr Vilner concluded "JetBird now has best-in-class aircraft, a management team with significant private and 
commercial aviation expertise and the knowledge and ability to replicate the low-cost model in private aviation."
About JetBird
Commencing operations in April, 2009, JetBird will become Europe's first true low cost private jet airline, offering a 
private jet experience at up to 50% less than current branded operators. With aircraft based at a number of demand 
centres around Europe, JetBird will offer on-demand private jet charter at a price that offers true value for money, 
thus making private jet travel affordable for middle and senior level executives and the mass affluent.
About Stefan Vilner
Prior to joining Sterling, Stefan was the Chief Executive Officer at DTF Travel, a Scandinavian tour operator with 
subsidiaries in Denmark, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Spain and the UK. During his time at DTF Travel, Stefan 
increased the company's revenue from (EURO)8 million to (EURO)25 million. Stefan also established an online 
customer database for DTF that grew to 350,000 members. Previously Mr Vilner served as Director of Travel & 
Transportation at Valtech, an international IT consulting group and as Head of International Sales & Marketing at 
Go Fly Ltd., the low cost carrier launched by British Airways in March 1998. Stefan Vilner is an avid linguist and is 
fluent in seven European languages.
About Sterling
Sterling is Europe's fourth-largest low-cost airline, and the largest in Scandinavia, operating both charter and 
scheduled flights to more than 80 routes across Europe. The company has a fleet of 25 Boeing 737-800s, 700s and 
500s. Sterling is based in Copenhagen and is part of Northern Travel Holding. Both in 2005 and 2006 Sterling was 
awarded "Best Low-cost Carrier" at the Danish Travel Award by Danish consumers.
About Claret Capital
Claret Capital, founded by Domhnal Slattery in 2005, is a private investment firm based in Dublin, Ireland. Claret 
Capital manages the assets of a small number of ultra high net worth individuals and families and has a global 
investment mandate. The firm has completed investments in the Private Equity, Real Estate, Media and Technology 
sectors. Claret Capital has also founded a number of new ventures including Blue Ocean Wireless, a company 
focused on expanding communication capability in the merchant maritime sector. Blue Ocean Wireless provides, for 
the first time, GSM connectivity for seafarers in deep ocean water, where no other network exists.
CONTACT: K Capital Source
Mark Kenny or Jonathan Neilan
Tel. +353 1 631 5500 or +353 86 231 4135
JetBird@kcapitalsource.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Graphic
 
Stefan Vilner, Incoming CEO of JetBird, Europe's first low cost private jet operator.. Formerly CCO of Scandinavian 
Low Cost Carrier, Sterling.dk (Photo: Business Wire)
JetBird Appoints Stefan Vilner as CEO CCO of Sterling Airlines and Chairman of ELFAA Joins JetBird
Load-Date: May 22, 2007
End of Document
Zacks Buy List Highlights: Ryanair Holdings plc , QUALCOMM Incorporated , Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. 
and Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.
Zacks Buy List Highlights: Ryanair Holdings plc, QUALCOMM Incorporated, 
Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. and Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.
Business Wire
April 25, 2007 Wednesday 10:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 962 words
Dateline: CHICAGO 
Body
Zacks.com releases the latest list of Zacks Rank Buy Stocks. Everyday on Zacks.com, four stocks are selected 
based on how well they match the criteria for the four main schools of investing: Aggressive Growth, Growth & 
Income, Momentum and Value. The four Zacks Rank Buy stocks highlighted today areRyanair Holdings 
plc(Nasdaq: RYAAY),QUALCOMM Incorporated(Nasdaq: QCOM),Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc.(Nasdaq: 
BRLI), andSchnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.(Nasdaq: SCHN).
Stocks ranked #1 (Strong Buy) by Zacks have produced an average annual return of +31.8% since inception in 
1988. During the 2000-2002 bear market, Zacks #1 Rank stocks gained 43.8% while the S&P 500 tumbled 37.6%. 
To see the full Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) List, or the rank for any other stock, visit: http://at.zacks.com/?id=88
Here is a synopsis of today's Zacks Rank Buy Stocks:
Aggressive Growth -Ryanair Holdings plc(Nasdaq: RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings plc has taken off to the tune of 100% over the past year. Despite rising fuel costs, it has remained 
highly profitable as it has expanded across Europe. Its third-quarter profit jumped 30%, Earnings estimates have 
been on the rise. Over the past 90 days, this year's estimates have risen 25 cents to $1.69 per share, while next 
year's numbers have jumped 21 cents to $2.20 per share.
Growth & Income -QUALCOMM Incorporated(Nasdaq: QCOM)
QUALCOMM Incorporated topped analysts' earnings expectations in 10 out of the last 12 quarters. Earnings per 
share are projected to grow 17% over the next 3-5 years. In mid March, the company raised its second-quarter 
profit guidance (it is scheduled to release second-quarter results today). QCOM has a current dividend yield of 
1.12% and a five-year average dividend yield of 0.67%.
Momentum -Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc.(Nasdaq: BRLI)
Zacks Buy List Highlights: Ryanair Holdings plc , QUALCOMM Incorporated , Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. 
and Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.
On Mar 8, Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. reported first-quarter earnings of 14 cents per share, up from nine cents 
per share in the prior year period and two cents above expectations. Following the company's 16.7% surprise, full-
year earnings estimates were increased by three cents to 97 cents. Last week the company broke through 
resistance and went on to make new highs.
Value -Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.(Nasdaq: SCHN)
Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc., a Zacks #1 Rank stock, exceeded analysts' earnings expectations in three out of 
the past four quarters by an average margin of 30.4%. Profits and revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 
were solid. Consensus earnings estimates have been on the rise over the past 30 days. The company has returned 
value to its shareholders through both dividend payments and share buybacks. SCHN has a price-to-book ratio of 
2.0, compared to 4.5 for the market. 
Truly taking advantage of the Zacks Rank requires the understanding of how it works. The free special report, 
"Zacks Rank Guide: Harnessing the Power of Earnings Estimate Revisions," provides an insightful background 
about this wealth-building tool. Download your free copy of the report now to prosper in the years to come by 
visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=93.
About the Zacks Rank
Since 1988, the Zacks Rank has proven that "Earnings estimate revisions are the most powerful force impacting 
stock prices." A $10,000 investment in the Zacks Rank list made in 1988 would now be worth $1.77 million - 
equivalent to a 31.8% annualized return! During the 2000-2002 bear market, Zacks #1 Rank stocks gained 43.8%, 
while the S&P 500 tumbled 37.6%. Also note that the Zacks Rank system has just as many Strong Sell 
recommendations (Rank #5) as Strong Buy recommendations (Rank #1). Since 1988, Zacks Rank #5 stocks have 
underperformed the S&P 500 by 143.6% annually (+4.8% vs. +11.8%). Thus, the Zacks Rank system allows 
investors to truly manage portfolio trading effectively.
Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter offers continuous coverage of Zacks Rank Buy stocks and highlights 
those stocks poised to outperform the market. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting 
http://at.zacks.com/?id=90. 
About Zacks
Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a 
PhD in mathematics Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment 
results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks 
Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable 
stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email 
newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your 
time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros http://at.zacks.com/?id=91
Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an 
investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such 
affiliates.
(a)The S&P 500 Index ("S&P 500") is a well-known, unmanaged index of the prices of 500 large-company common 
stocks selected by Standard & Poor's. The S&P 500 includes the reinvestment of all dividends, no transaction 
costs, and represents the gross returns before management fees.
Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and 
securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or 
sell any security.
Zacks Buy List Highlights: Ryanair Holdings plc , QUALCOMM Incorporated , Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. 
and Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.
CONTACT: Zacks.com
Aggressive Growth Stocks:
Roopak Chakravarty, 312-265-9188
or
Growth & Income Stocks:
Jim Licato, 312-265-9226
or
Momentum Stocks:
Ryan Whitmore, 312-265-9265
or
Value Stocks:
Jim Licato, 312-265-9226
pr@zacks.com
www.zacks.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 26, 2007
End of Document
Flightglobal Exclusive: Ryanair To Offer $12 Air Fare From Europe to the US
Flightglobal Exclusive: Ryanair To Offer $12 Air Fare From Europe to the US
Business Wire
April 12, 2007 Thursday 11:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Travel Editors
Length: 206 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Flightglobal.com reports that Ryanair is to launch a new transatlantic airline serving the US East Coast offering 
fares as low as $12.
In an exclusive interview with Flightglobal's sister magazine Flight International, Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary says 
that therecent OpenSkies agreement has made this possible. The agreement allows airlines to operate transatlantic 
flights without individual national bilateral deals from 2008.
With "the cheapest fare (EURO)10 ($12)", O'Leary expects the services, to secondary airports such as Baltimore, 
Providence in Rhode Island and NewYork Long Island Islip Macarthur "to be full". He expects sales of food, drink, 
duty-free goods and in-flight entertainment to be a major revenue earner.
However, the new airline will have a "premium class" pitched against "the best in the business" such as Virgin 
Atlantic.
O'Leary says: "By mid 2009, we will be carrying 70 million passengers at 23 bases across Europe. It will be 
relatively straightforward for us to do a deal for 40 to 50 long-haul aircraft and connect these bases transatlantically. 
There would be no one to touch us."
For more on this story visit Flightglobal.com.
CONTACT: Reed Business Information for Flightglobal
Tim Haigh, +44 (0)208 6523 296
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 12, 2007
End of Document
Research & Markets: Gain an Understanding of the Opportunities and Threats Facing Ryanair Holdings Plc in 
the Travel & Tourism Market
Research & Markets: Gain an Understanding of the Opportunities and 
Threats Facing Ryanair Holdings Plc in the Travel & Tourism Market
Business Wire
March 30, 2007 Friday 5:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 409 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c53095 ) has announced the addition of the 
Euromonitor International report: Ryanair Holdings Plc: Travel and Tourism to their offering.
Our Ryanair Holdings Plc Company Profile offers detailed strategic analysis of the company's business, examining 
its performance in the travel and tourism market. The report examines company shares by region, financial 
performance, its marketing strategies, challenges from the competition and future prospects. Use it to understand 
opportunities and threats facing the business and the factors driving success.
We have over 30 years experience of publishing market research reports, business reference books and online 
information systems. With offices in London, Chicago, Singapore, Shanghai and Vilnius and a network of over 600 
analysts worldwide, We have a unique capability to develop reliable information resources to help drive informed 
strategic planning.
Topics Covered
•
SWOT Analysis
•
Corporate Overview
•
Summary 1 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Key Facts
•
Travel and Tourism Strategic Evaluation by Region and by Sector
•
Market
•
Air
•
Travel and Tourism Brand Assessment
•
Prospects for the Travel and Tourism Business
Appendix
•
Table 1 Ryanair Holdings Plc: The: World Sales Performance of Key Sectors of Involvement 2005
Research & Markets: Gain an Understanding of the Opportunities and Threats Facing Ryanair Holdings Plc in 
the Travel & Tourism Market
•
Table 2 Ryanair Holdings Plc: The: World Sales Performance of Key Geographies of Involvement 2005
•
Table 3 Ryanair Holdings Plc: World Shares & Rankings in Travel and Tourism by Sector 2001/2005
•
Table 4 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Regional Shares in Travel and Tourism by Sector 2005
•
Table 5 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Financial Summary 2001-2006
•
Financial Summary by Division
•
Table 6 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Sales by Region 2001-2005
•
Table 7 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Sales by Other Sectors 2001-2005
•
Operational Strategies
•
Summary 2 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Business Agreements 2005/2006
•
Brand Portfolio
•
Summary 3 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Travel and Tourism Business Brands 2005
•
Subsidiaries and Affiliates
•
Summary 4 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Subsidiaries 2005
•
Websites of Ryanair Holdings Plc
•
Summary 5 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Websites
•
History and Corporate Development
•
Summary 6 Ryanair Holdings Plc: Historical Development 
Companies Mentioned
•
easyJet
•
Ryanair
•
Air France
•
British Airways
•
Hertz Corp
•
Wizz Air
•
SkyEurope Airlines
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c53095
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood
Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax: +353 1 4100 980 
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 31, 2007
End of Document
Airline Weekly Provides News and Analysis of Commercial Airlines from a Strategy & Finance Perspective
Airline Weekly Provides News and Analysis of Commercial Airlines from a 
Strategy & Finance Perspective
Business Wire
March 6, 2007 Tuesday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel & Hospitality Writers; Travel Editors
Length: 306 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c51481) has announced the addition of 
"Airline Weekly" to their offering.
Worldwise news and analysis of commercial airlines from a strategy & finance perspective.
Published 48 times each year, Airline Weekly subscribers enjoy an in-depth look at the week's news with an 
emphasis on business strategy. Each issue features an in-depth cover story on the always-challenging marketplace 
of commercial airlines. Plus we keep an eye on who's flying where, interesting business models, and critical airline 
and airport data - all from a truly worldwide perspective. Energy prices, labor disputes, sky congestion, developing 
economies, changing government regulation ... the list of market variables is as boundless as the sky itself. Every 
Monday, Airline Weekly helps subscribers understand and keep track of these variables.
Airline Weekly is distributed by email in a PDF format for readers to print or save to their hard drives to read in the 
office or while travelling.
•
Cover Story
•
The Weekly Skies
•
Labor & Airports
•
Routes & Networks
•
Marketing & Sales
•
Finance
•
Around the World
Companies mentioned:
British Airways
Air France/KLM
Airline Weekly Provides News and Analysis of Commercial Airlines from a Strategy & Finance Perspective
Lufthansa
Iberia
SAS
Austrian
Alitalia 
Finnair
Aeroflot
Aer Lingus
Virgin Atlantic
easyJet
Ryanair
Air Berlin
SkyEurope
Japan Airlines
All Nippon
Singapore Airlines
Cathay Pacific
Korean Air
Air China
China Eastern 
China Southern
Malaysia Airlines
AirAsia
Thai Airways
Qantas
Virgin Blue
Air New Zealand
American
United
Delta
Airline Weekly Provides News and Analysis of Commercial Airlines from a Strategy & Finance Perspective
Northwest
Continental
US Airways 
Southwest
Alaska
jetBlue
AirTran
Frontier
SkyWest
Mesa
Republic 
ExpressJet
Pinnacle
Air Canada
WestJet
LAN
TAM
Gol
Copa Emirates
Kenya Airways
Jet Airways
Air Deccan
SpiceJet
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c51481
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood
Senior Manager
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 7, 2007
Airline Weekly Provides News and Analysis of Commercial Airlines from a Strategy & Finance Perspective
End of Document
Zacks #1 Rank Top Performers: Hologic , Crocs , Cadence Design Systems , RAE Systems and Ryanair 
Holdings
Zacks #1 Rank Top Performers: Hologic, Crocs, Cadence Design Systems, 
RAE Systems and Ryanair Holdings
Business Wire
February 7, 2007 Wednesday 2:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 1075 words
Dateline: CHICAGO 
Body
Zacks.com announces the latest list of top performing Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks. The stocks on the 
prestigious list with the highest returns last week wereHologic, Inc.(NASDAQ: HOLX),Crocs, Inc.(NASDAQ: 
CROX),Cadence Design Systems, Inc.(NASDAQ: CDNS),RAE Systems Inc.(AMEX: RAE) andRyanair 
Holdings Plc(NASDAQ: RYAAY). Each of these stocks easily outperformed the S&P 500.
Stocks ranked #1 (Strong Buy) by Zacks have produced an average annual return of +31.8% since inception in 
1988. During the 2000-2002 bear market, Zacks #1 Rank stocks gained 43.8% while the S&P 500 tumbled 37.6%. 
To learn more about the Zacks Rank, go to http://at.zacks.com/?id=3172.
Here is a synopsis of the last week's best performing Zacks #1 Rank stocks.
Hologic, Inc.(NASDAQ: HOLX) was one of the top-performing Zacks #1 Rank stocks last week with a gain of 
12.3%. The medical imaging company announced solid fiscal first quarter results on Jan 31, including earnings per 
share of 30 cents on revenue of $163.2 million. EPS improved from 12 cents a year earlier and eclipsed the 
consensus by four cents. Revenues soared 86% from $88 million as Hologic installed and recognized as revenue a 
record 228 SeleniaÂ® full-field digital mammography systems. In response to the bullish report, analysts boosted 
their earnings estimates for fiscal 2007 by approximately 15.2%.
Crocs, Inc.(NASDAQ: CROX) announced last week a creative licensing agreement with Nickelodeon to produce an 
exclusive, limited edition line of footwear. The new line, which should be available at select U.S. retail locations this 
summer, will incorporate the popular Nickelodeon characters Dora the Explorer and SpongeBob SquarePants. The 
agreement helped Crocs gain 10.5% and set new record highs last week.
Cadence Design Systems, Inc.(NASDAQ: CDNS) reported fourth quarter revenue of $431 million, marking a 14% 
improvement from $378 million a year earlier. Meanwhile, earnings per share exceeded the consensus and moved 
forward year-over-year. The company said it enjoyed outstanding execution across all elements of its business, 
especially fueled by technology innovation and significant customer engagements in all regions. Shares of Cadence 
Design Systems rose 9.9% last week and reached a 52-week high on Feb 2.
Zacks #1 Rank Top Performers: Hologic , Crocs , Cadence Design Systems , RAE Systems and Ryanair 
Holdings
RAE Systems Inc.(AMEX: RAE) makes the top performer list with a gain of 8.7%. Last week, the company 
introduced a pair of Geiger-Mueller tube-based, electronic, gamma radiation dosimeters: the DoseRAE and 
DoseRAE-P. The company called these models an important addition to its offerings in the international safety and 
security markets. RAE Systems is a leading global provider of rapidly deployable sensor networks that enable 
customers to identify safety and security threats in real time.
Ryanair Holdings Plc(NASDAQ: RYAAY) hit a fresh 52-week high on Feb 5 as the low-cost European airline 
announced fiscal third-quarter results. Net profit during the quarter rose 30% as total revenues increased 33%. 
Furthermore, despite higher oil costs, Ryanair maintained a better-than-expected net margin of 10% in the quarter. 
Ryanair stated that the 30% increase during a period of higher oil prices, intense competition, and 21% seat 
capacity growth demonstrates the robustness of its lowest fare model. The company also offered an optimistic 
outlook for 2007 and analysts responded by raising their earnings forecasts.
About the Zacks Rank
Since 1988, the Zacks Rank has proven that "Earnings estimate revisions are the most powerful force impacting 
stock prices." Since inception in 1988, #1 Rank stocks have generated an average annual return of +31.8%. During 
the 2000-2002 bear market, Zacks #1 Rank stocks gained +43.8%, while the S&P 500 tumbled -37.6%. Also note 
that the Zacks Rank system has just as many Strong Sell recommendations (Rank #5) as Strong Buy 
recommendations (Rank #1). Since 1988, Zacks Rank #5 stocks have underperformed the S&P 500 by 143.6% 
annually (+4.8% vs. +11.8%). Thus, the Zacks Rank system allows investors to truly manage portfolio trading 
effectively.
To view the current Zacks #1 Rank List and to see additional Zacks Rank resources, go to 
http://at.zacks.com/?id=3173.
Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter offers continuous coverage of Zacks Rank stocks and highlights 
those stocks poised to outperform the market. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting 
http://at.zacks.com/?id=3168.
About Zacks
Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a 
PhD in mathematics Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment 
results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks 
Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable 
stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email 
newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your 
time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=3169.
Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an 
investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such 
affiliates.
(a)The Zacks Performance Rank performance is the total return of equal weighted simulated portfolios consisting of 
those stocks with the indicated Zacks Rank net of fees. Results reflect the reinvestment of dividends and other 
earnings. Simulated results do not represent actual trading and may not reflect the impact that economic and 
market factors might have had on decision-making if an adviser were actually managing a client's money.
(b)The S&P 500 Index ("S&P 500") is a well-known, unmanaged index of the prices of 500 large-company common 
stocks selected by Standard & Poor's. The S&P 500 includes the reinvestment of all dividends, no transaction 
costs, and represents the gross returns before management fees.
Zacks #1 Rank Top Performers: Hologic , Crocs , Cadence Design Systems , RAE Systems and Ryanair 
Holdings
Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and 
securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or 
sell any security.
CONTACT: Zacks.com
Jim Giaquinto, 312-265-9268
pr@zacks.com
www.Zacks.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 8, 2007
End of Document
The Market Share of Low-Cost Carriers in Europe Reached 16.3% in May 2006 - a Full 2.4% Higher Than at 
the Same Point 12 Months Prior
The Market Share of Low-Cost Carriers in Europe Reached 16.3% in May 
2006 - a Full 2.4% Higher Than at the Same Point 12 Months Prior
Business Wire
January 15, 2007 Monday 10:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 553 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c48470) has announced the addition of 
"Primary Research into Easyjet and the UK Low Cost Carrier Market" to their offering.
In October 2006, YGX conducted an online survey to gauge easyJet's prospects for success within the UK low cost 
carrier (LCC) sector. The results indicate that things are looking good for easyJet. The full report gives detailed 
analyses of the responses and explains the implications of these findings.
The market share of low-cost carriers in Europe reached 16.3% in May 2006. This is a full 2.4% higher than at the 
same point 12 months prior. Of all the European countries, the UK has the highest penetration of low-cost carriers - 
with LCCs taking a 28.4% share from Jan-May 2006. There are now 48 low-cost airlines in Europe, operating out of 
22 countries. However just 15 of these operate more than 50 flights a day. The two biggest low fare airlines in 
Europe are Ryanair and easyJet.
The main objective of this research is to assess easyJet's brand equity and to determine whether seat yields could 
increase. This requires analysis of the wider UK low cost carrier market. Key issues explored are:
Amongst all UK airline passengers:
•
What is the general perception of easyJet. Has it changed? How are they perceived from a leisure vs. 
business perspective?
•
What is the awareness generally of easyJet's service?
•
What are the key criteria by which flyers evaluate carriers? How does easyJet score in each of these 
criteria in comparison to their rivals (with particular focus on British Airways and Ryanair)?
•
How attractive are the elements of easyJet's service offering that easyJet is now promoting [such as 
frequency of flights on major routes]?
•
To what extent are people bundling the purchase of broader travel requirements with air travel (such as 
hotels and car hire), and why?
The Market Share of Low-Cost Carriers in Europe Reached 16.3% in May 2006 - a Full 2.4% Higher Than at 
the Same Point 12 Months Prior
•
What are the reasons for flyers not choosing easyJet? And would they now consider using easyJet in the 
future?
•
How price sensitive are flyers? Are personal flyers more price sensitive than business flyers?
Amongst UK airline passengers that have used easyJet in the last six months:
•
What are the satisfaction levels of easyJet passengers - how loyal are easyJet customers and how likely 
are they to use easyJet again based on their prior experiences with easyJet?
•
What additional revenue generating options have easyJet passengers signed up for? What impact does 
this have on the average yield per seat?
•
How are customers purchasing easyJet's services (company website, online agency, traditional agency)?
•
Each of these issues is explored in the context of a range of consumer segments (based on the 
demographic profiles of respondents).
Companies mentioned:
EasyJet
British Airways
Ryanair
Thomson Fly
BMI Baby
Monarch
British Midland
Virgin, Flybe
Britannia Airways
KLM Royal
Dutch Airways
JET2 
Lufthansa
Aer Lingus
Air France
Continental Airways
Iberia
Air Berlin
Qantas Airways
Air 2000
The Market Share of Low-Cost Carriers in Europe Reached 16.3% in May 2006 - a Full 2.4% Higher Than at 
the Same Point 12 Months Prior
SAS Scandinavian Airlines
Alitalia
Delta Airlines 
Cathay Pacific Airways
Air Europa
Air Southwest 
WizzAir
Air Scotland
Easten Airways
Germanwings
Portugalia Airlines
SKYEurope
British NorthWest Airlines
City Jet
Dragonair
EOS 
Max Jet
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c48470.
CONTACT: Research and Markets Laura Wood
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 16, 2007
End of Document
First Irish MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) for Tesco in 2007?
First Irish MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) for Tesco in 2007?
Business Wire
December 18, 2006 Monday 4:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers; Retail Writers
Length: 452 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
MVNODirectory.com has learned that the 1st MVNO in Ireland is expected to launch in 2007. Following on from the 
successful UK partnership, Tesco are to launch an Irish MVNO operation. This first for Ireland will be a joint venture 
following the same business plan as in the UK. The two partners are Tesco Ireland and O2 Ireland. The pair are to 
jointly form Tesco Mobile Ireland drawing upon O2's technical skills and assets and Tesco's brand presence and 
retail abilities.
Tesco Mobile Ireland will have exclusive MVNO market share, at least until Vodafone, Meteor and 3 Ireland rally 
their efforts to minimise potential CHURN out of their prepay customer bases. This news will come as a shock to 
the market due to the regulator's (Comreg) failure to advance the market and the unofficial block on MVNO entrants 
- even though Comreg did start to allocate MVNO phone numbers to hopeful MVNOs back in April 2005.
When The MVNO Directory (http://www.MVNODirectory.com) launched last summer it predicted that Tesco and O2 
would launch an Irish joint venture. Now MVNOs including Clever Communications, Dome Telecom, Eircom, Minute 
Buyer, Perlico, BT, Carphone Warehouse (Fresh Mobile) and Ryanair may also enter the market. These companies 
were thought to have been looking but were unable to find an agreeable carrier. Now O2 has broken rank with the 
other carriers, there could be a scrap to win MVNO market share, which in turn is ultimately overall market share.
According to Tesco Mobile, the UK operation has one million subscribers as of July 2006. The operation targets 
families and the pre-paid market using in store promotion, online marketing (Tesco.com) and as part of their overall 
marketing campaigns for their range of services. It is believed that Tesco Mobile Ireland will also follow suit but can 
not expect to gain the same quantity of subscribers due to Ireland's smaller population (4 million compared to the 
UK's 60 million) and O2 Ireland having already having a customer base of 1,602,000 current subscribers.
MVNO stands for mobile virtual network operator. An MVNO operates in a similar way to a normal mobile network 
operator but does not typically own their own infrastructure or have a radio frequency licence. Instead, MVNOs work 
in agreement with a licenced mobile network who does own a physical network.
MVNODirectory.com is a research portal dedicated to the MVNO space. The lead publication is a global directory of 
MVNOs and visitors to the site can also subscribe to a supporting news service regarding MVNOs, there is no cost. 
For more information visit http://www.MVNODirectory.com
First Irish MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) for Tesco in 2007?
More to follow on this story when available.
CONTACT: Matthew Tapson
mt@MVNODirectory.com
+44-1494-771-734
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 19, 2006
End of Document
Research and Markets : BMI Operates Nearly 2,000 Flights A Week Over A Network Of 36 Airports In Europe, 
Asia, Middle East And Transatlantic To The US And Carib....
Research and Markets : BMI Operates Nearly 2,000 Flights A Week Over A 
Network Of 36 Airports In Europe, Asia, Middle East And Transatlantic To 
The US And Caribbean
Business Wire
December 14, 2006 Thursday 12:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 428 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c47095) has announced the addition of 
"British Midland International: Company Analysis" to their offering.
The growth in the UK aviation industry has been fuelled by the emergence of low-cost scheduled air travel services 
and the rise in the number of passengers, airlines and routes. Today, passengers in the UK market enjoy a choice 
of low-cost airlines, regional services, European short-haul and international long-haul travel, along with a wide 
choice of carriers. These developments present a dramatic change from the flag carrier-dominated skies of 1980s.
BMI operates nearly 2,000 flights a week over a network of 36 airports in Europe, Asia, Middle East and 
transatlantic to the US and Caribbean. BMI also operates a low-fare carrier called Bmibaby, flying to 18 destinations 
in 7 countries. The FY05 revenues of BMI amounted to $1US.6 billion and its net income to $17US.8 million. BMI 
has been a profit-making entity over the last five years. This has been possible due to the operational 
efficiency/savings derived from owning young aircraft fleet with average age of five years.
This report starts with a chronological overview of British Midland International (BMI), and profiles its management, 
business model, key strategies, and financial performance. The report includes an analysis within the SWOT 
framework and a competitor assessment of British Airways, Ryanair and EasyJet. The report also identifies and 
discusses those factors that have given BMI a leading position in the scheduled low-cost airlines industry.
BMI is a full service airline operating flights to more than 36 airports worldwide, carrying more than 1 million 
passengers every month. Passenger and cargo are its two service segments. The report ends with a positive 
outlook for the UK airlines industry.
Topics Covered: 
•
-Corporate History 
•
-SWOT Analysis
•
-Financial Performance
Research and Markets : BMI Operates Nearly 2,000 Flights A Week Over A Network Of 36 Airports In Europe, 
Asia, Middle East And Transatlantic To The US And Carib....
•
-Competitive Landscape
•
-Outlook
Companies Mentioned:
British Airways, EasyJet, Ryanair, Transaero, Hotelopia, Hertz, OnAir, SAS, Air Canada, Malaysia Airlines, TAP 
Portugal, Virgin Atlantic, Gulf Air, Lufthansa, Air France, ANA, LOT Polish Airlines, South African Airways, Thai 
Airways International, Royal Brunei, Singapore Airlines, Qatar Airways, Eithad Airways, VARIG, Asiana, Spaniar, 
Swiss Air, Radisson Hotels, Flybe, KLM, ThompsonFly, QANTAS, LoganAir, BMED, Sun Air, Comair, Airbus
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c47095
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 15, 2006
End of Document
Gain An Overview Of The Travel Goods Industry In The United Kingdom
Gain An Overview Of The Travel Goods Industry In The United Kingdom
Business Wire
November 21, 2006 Tuesday 12:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 218 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland 
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c45671) has announced the addition of 
"Travel Goods in United Kingdom" to their offering.
Our Travel Goods in the United Kingdom report offers a brief overview of the size of the market at a national level. It 
provides the latest retail sales data (2000-2005), allowing you to identify the sectors driving growth. Forecasts to 
2010 illustrate how the market is set to change.
Product coverage includes: luggage, brief/computer cases, travel/sport bags, handbags, flat goods, backpacks
Data coverage: market sizes (historic and forecasts)
Why buy this report?
•
Get an overview of the travel goods industry
•
Pinpoint growth sectors and identify factors driving change 
•
Use five-year forecasts to assess how the market is predicted to develop
With a network of over 600 analysts worldwide we have a unique capability to develop reliable information 
resources to help drive informed strategic planning.
Topics Covered:
•
2005 Headlines
•
Sector Trends
•
Competitive Landscape
•
Sector Outlook
Companies Mentioned:
•
Ryanair
•
Antler
Gain An Overview Of The Travel Goods Industry In The United Kingdom
•
Samsonite
•
Tripp
•
Landor & Hawa
•
Carlton
•
Harrods
•
Debenhams
•
John Lewis
•
Timberland
•
Tumi
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c45671
CONTACT: Research and Markets
Laura Wood
Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com
Fax: +353 1 4100 980
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 22, 2006
End of Document
Many Experiments and Trials Are Taking Place in 2006 and 2007 That Will Shape the New Internet Leisure 
Market - E-Commerce: the Internet Leisure & Entertainment....
Many Experiments and Trials Are Taking Place in 2006 and 2007 That Will 
Shape the New Internet Leisure Market - E-Commerce: the Internet Leisure & 
Entertainment Market 
Business Wire
June 29, 2006 Thursday 3:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 742 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland June 29, 2006
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c38879) has announced the addition of E-
Commerce: The Internet Leisure & Entertainment Market - Market Assessment 2006 to their offering.
The Internet has had a profound impact on consumer behaviour in the UK, affecting work and education and 
opening up new channels of communication through e-mail and interactive websites. Spending time online has itself 
become an important leisure activity, but the days of pointless `surfing' have given way to much more directed, 
purposeful activities.
These new online activities are increasingly social, in contrast to the `solipsistic' surfing of the past. Research by 
Key Note shows that activities such as online auctions (led by eBay), interactive multi-player games and getting in 
touch with old friends, relatives or `dating' are all part of the new `virtual society' that has developed on the Internet.
However, in terms of generating revenues, the most lucrative e-commerce sector in leisure is still travel, estimated 
to account for nearly two-thirds of online spending on leisure. Consumers increasingly research their holidays online 
before booking them, even if they still use the telephone or a travel agent in the high street for the final booking. 
Examples of the impact of the Internet on travel include being able to check in at home for a flight (including self-
printing the boarding pass) and the stimulus given to short-break holidays by the budget airlines (e.g. Ryanair), 
which sell almost all of their tickets online.
Despite the value and growth of e-commerce for leisure, worth around GBP 6.5bn in 2005, this still represents a 
small fraction of total spending on leisure (a distribution share of less than 10% in most leisure markets). Some 
activities are suitable for a steady rise in the online share to take place, notably gambling and booking tickets for 
events. Interactive websites are eminently suitable for these activities, whereas other leisure activities obviously 
involve leaving the computer behind (e.g. taking part in sport or going to a public house or cinema).
The supply side of online leisure is increasingly dominated by a handful of major websites, despite the `democratic' 
nature of the Internet. The vast majority of consumers in the UK rely on systems using Microsoft (for basic 
Many Experiments and Trials Are Taking Place in 2006 and 2007 That Will Shape the New Internet Leisure 
Market - E-Commerce: the Internet Leisure & Entertainment....
software), and Dell has taken a clear lead in selling computers to UK households. There is a limited number of 
websites used as consumer portals into the Web, including Google, AOL and MSN (Microsoft Network). Leading 
leisure-related companies online include Amazon (for entertainment products), eBay (online auctions), iTunes 
(music downloads), Friends Reunited (a website now owned by ITV, for finding and contacting old friends) and 
Expedia (travel), but they face competition from the online divisions of established companies such as the BBC, 
Virgin and ITV. Overall, the supply is increasingly dominated by US companies such as IAC/InterActiveCorp, owner 
of 60 website brands including Expedia (travel), Ticketmaster (tickets for music, sports, arts and theatre events and 
other attractions), TripAdvisor (reviews and deals for hotels, resorts and holidays), Match.com (dating) and Ask.com 
(information searching).
Many experiments and trials are taking place in 2006 and 2007 that will shape the new Internet leisure market. 
Video-on-demand (VoD) will transform broadcasting, and the days of some `entertainment products' (e.g. CDs and 
DVDs (digital versatile discs)) are limited because of the potential for downloading them. However, books seem to 
be impervious to these changes and the traditional book market is still thriving. This is symptomatic of another trend 
in leisure: despite all the technological advances, most consumers are still simply finding ways to access `old 
culture', such as Hollywood movies, `greatest hits' records or live football matches. Many time-consuming activities 
online -- such as finding old friends and relatives or buying second-hand goods -- also contain an element of 
`cultural timelag'.
The Companies Mentioned in report includes:
Amazon
Apple Computer (Itunes)
Dell
Ebay
Iac/Interactivecorp (Expedia, Ticketmaster, Match)
Itv Plc (Friends Reunited)
Sabre Holdings (Lastminute, Travelocity)
Sony Corporation (Playstation)
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c38879
CONTACT: Research and Markets Laura Wood press@researchandmarkets.com Fax: +353 1 4100 980
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 30, 2006
End of Document
Mobissimo Travels to the UK: Sun Never Sets on Mobissimo 's Travel Empire; Travel Search Engine Continues 
Unrelenting International Expansion
Mobissimo Travels to the UK: Sun Never Sets on Mobissimo's Travel 
Empire; Travel Search Engine Continues Unrelenting International 
Expansion 
Business Wire
June 28, 2006 Wednesday 3:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers; High-Tech Editors
Length: 778 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO June 28, 2006
Body
Mobissimo, Inc. (www.mobissimo.com), the world's most comprehensive travel search engine, today announced 
the launch of its UK site,            www.mobissimo.co.uk, to give British consumers direct access to the latest travel 
deals from the widest range of online travel agencies, major air carriers, low cost airlines, car rentals and hotels 
available with a single click.
The British are traditionally savvy travellers who travel often both domestically and abroad. Mobissimo covers well-
known domestic travel suppliers such as Active Hotels, British Airways, Easyjet, Ebookers, Hotel Pronto, 
Lastminute.com, Monarch, Opodo.co.uk, Ryanair, Skoosh, Sterling, and features the largest selection of low cost 
airlines available in one convenient location.
Mobissimo is the only travel search engine to specialize in international travel and offers unparalleled depth in travel 
resources for deals to three foreign destinations favoured by UK residents: the U.S., continental Europe and India.
Continuing Mobissimo's trajectory of organic growth and international expansion, Mobissimo UK is the second 
European site operated by the company. Mobissimo launched its French site (www.mobissimo.fr) in September 
2005.
Beyond Europe, Asia has quickly developed into a white-hot market for online travel search, due to the Indian 
economic boom and the emergence of a new generation of low cost airlines to meet increasing demand for travel 
options. Last month Mobissimo became the first travel search engine to specifically target India with the launch of 
its Indian site (www.mobissimo.in), bringing Indian consumers the largest selection of travel deals available both 
domestically and worldwide.
"We focus on entering the fastest growing travel markets globally to propose the best choices and recommendation 
tools to our users. The UK leisure travel market is very active and the UK has always represented a significant 
source of traffic for Mobissimo," said Beatrice Tarka, Mobissimo's CEO.
Mobissimo Travels to the UK: Sun Never Sets on Mobissimo 's Travel Empire; Travel Search Engine Continues 
Unrelenting International Expansion
Mobissimo searches prices directly from 166 different travel suppliers across the world, based on visitors' search 
criteria, and displays them with one simple search.
Just like a Virtual Travel Concierge, Mobissimo's innovative recommendation tools make it easy for travellers to 
discover new destinations and routes, particularly useful in summer and winter holiday seasons when fares to 
popular destinations tend to sell out. Users can enter queries with Mobissimo OneBox natural language search, tap 
PowerSearch for multiple city searches, consult MobiCombo for dynamic ticket combinations, and run 
ActivitySearch for theme-based travel planning, directly on the Mobissimo home page.
About Mobissimo
In Italian, Mobissimo means the "ultimate in mobility." For consumers, Mobissimo is the ultimate travel search tool 
because it saves time and money and improves the way people discover travel information. Mobissimo is a travel 
search engine that simultaneously searches 166 different travel sites in 30 countries and five continents, including 
major global airlines, low-cost carriers, consolidators, and hotel/car rental sites, to find the best fares and rates 
online. Travelers from 188 different countries take advantage of Mobissimo's powerful Travel 2.0 search tools 
including OneBox natural language search, PowerSearch for multiple city searches, MobiCombo for dynamic ticket 
combinations, and ActivitySearch for theme-based travel planning. Launched in 2004, Mobissimo continues to be 
the leading travel search innovator. The company is headquartered in San Francisco, California and is privately 
held. For more information and to experience Mobissimo, please visit www.mobissimo.com.
Note to editors:
UK residents made 64.2 million visits abroad and spent GBP 30.3 billion in 2004. Two thirds of visits by UK 
residents were for holidays. Europe was the most popular destination for UK residents, accounting for 80 per cent 
of all visits and 64 per cent of overall spending.
In 2004 UK residents made 50.4 million visits abroad by air, 79 percent of all visits. This compared with 8.9 million 
visits by sea (14 per cent) and a further 4.6 million via the Channel Tunnel (7 per cent). Those travelling by air spent 
proportionally more than those travelling by any other means: 85 per cent (GBP 25.9 billion) of all expenditure was 
by those UK residents travelling by air, compared with 10 per cent (GBP 3.0 billion) by sea and 5 per cent (GBP 1.4 
billion) through the tunnel. (Source: UK Government International Passenger Survey - Travel Trends 2004)
CONTACT: SIPR for Mobissimo Judy Curtis, 650-274-1509 (U.S.) judy@sipr.com or IITM for Mobissimo Klaas 
Brumann, +44 (0)8700 114911 (UK) kb@IITM.info
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 29, 2006
End of Document
MVNODirectory: New Research Identifies 34 MVNOs 'About' to Launch
MVNODirectory: New Research Identifies 34 MVNOs 'About' to Launch 
Business Wire
June 1, 2006 Thursday 3:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Telecommunications Writers
Length: 408 words
Dateline: LONDON June 1, 2006
Body
New research from MVNODirectory.com has found that there are over 213 active MVNOs (mobile virtual network 
operators). The majority of these MVNOs are spread across Europe, but the country with the most MVNOs is the 
USA (51 active operations).
It is also clear that the mobile community can not decide what a MVNO is. MVNODirectory.com has taken this into 
account and defined a MVNO as a mobile voice / data service, operated via a third party's licensed spectrum 
network, where the third party is not in contact with the end user. But the MVNO world is not this simple. MegaFon, 
who are a mobile network operator (MNO), also has its own MVNO operation. In Africa there is ZanTel's operation 
with Vodacom. Even the straightforward MVNOs are not straightforward, such as Virgin Mobile Australia, who is 
owned by their carrier, Optus.
It seems that MVNOs are queuing up to launch. The same research has found 34 companies who are either about 
to launch or who have officially stated their intention to launch. Eircom in Ireland are trying to access the 3G market 
after being rejected for a spectrum license. Xero Mobile in the USA is set to target the student market; but they may 
have already been beaten to market by Virgin Mobile's ads-for-minutes offer. South Africa is about to get its own 
Virgin Mobile and the massive growth markets of China and India could also see a 2006 Virgin Mobile launch. The 
34 likely launches exclude 17 operations that have been attributed to market speculation or are a long time from 
launching, such as Apple and Ryanair.
In a year that has already seen Disney Mobile targeting parents, Helio targeting mobile content users and EU telco 
regulators getting aggressive, it is certain to say that there is much more action to come from the global MVNO 
marketplace.
ABOUT: MVNODirectory.com is a new portal focused specifically on the global MVNO market. The portal provides 
a weekly MVNO update service and also retails analyst research about MVNOs, with special attention given to a 
new global directory of MVNOs. The MVNO Directory provides readers with named individuals to contacts within 
over 200 MVNOs. Additional profile information can also be found within the directory. For more information about 
The MVNO Directory, visit http://www.mvnodirectory.com or e-mail Matthew Tapson, mt@mvnodirectory.com
MVNODirectory: New Research Identifies 34 MVNOs 'About' to Launch
CONTACT: 
MVNO 
Directory 
Matthew 
TAPSON, 
+44-1494-771-734 
Fax: 
+44-1494-778-994 
mt@mvnodirectory.com MVNODirectory.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: June 2, 2006
End of Document
WebTrends Continues to Lead the Way in Global Travel Industry; WebTrends Sees Soaring Demand as Travel 
Businesses Look to Market-Leading Analytics to Improve On....
WebTrends Continues to Lead the Way in Global Travel Industry; 
WebTrends Sees Soaring Demand as Travel Businesses Look to Market-
Leading Analytics to Improve Online Marketing ROI and Increase Online 
Bookings 
Business Wire
April 18, 2006 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers; Travel Writers
Length: 1032 words
Dateline: NEW YORK April 18, 2006
Body
WebTrends, the market leader for web analytics and Marketing Performance Management solutions, today at 
TravelCom 2006 announced that many of the world's leading travel companies have adopted WebTrends analytics 
solutions to measure and optimize the performance of their marketing and web site initiatives. These include 
leading organizations such as AAA, Air Europa, Carnival Cruise Lines, CheapCaribbean.com, CheapTickets, Dollar 
Thrifty Automotive Group, Flybe.com, Hilton Hotels Corporation, La Quinta Corporation, Lufthansa, Mark Warner 
Ltd, SAS, Sandals Resorts, Site59, STA Travel, Swiss International Air Lines, Ryanair and Virgin Atlantic Airways.
Operating in one of the most competitive industries in the world, a growing number of leading business and leisure 
travel companies are turning to web analytics to prove and improve results from online and offline campaigns, and 
to increase online travel bookings. With many travel businesses operating multi-language sites that produce a large 
percentage of business revenue online, it is crucial to have an in-depth understanding of visitor behavior and 
preferences across geographic regions. Senior travel marketers are demanding both easy-to-understand and highly 
customizable reporting to enable speedy evaluation and strategic decision-making on the effectiveness of multi-
million dollar campaigns.
WebTrends strong market leadership in this category is yet another indication of its ability to provide travel 
companies with unique insight into critical online information. For example, WebTrends 5-Point Scenario Analysis is 
uniquely suited for the dynamic, non-linear conversion processes of most travel companies, where visitors may 
enter the booking process from any number of points including campaign landing pages, frequent flyer programs, or 
directly from marketing partners and can easily skip or jump around checkout steps process, adding flights, hotels, 
or car rentals. With WebTrends dynamic scenario analysis, one funnel can show all of this dynamic behavior 
including abandonment paths, which are critical clues for conversion optimization.
WebTrends Continues to Lead the Way in Global Travel Industry; WebTrends Sees Soaring Demand as Travel 
Businesses Look to Market-Leading Analytics to Improve On....
In addition, easy-to-use features such as WebTrends SmartView(TM) allow travel businesses to easily evaluate 
page real estate and optimize link prominence and content and promotion effectiveness, while understanding how 
page and behavior and conversion varies by visitor segment on the fly.
"With travel consumers demanding more and more online self-service options, understanding visitor behavior on 
our site is absolutely critical," said Brian Beirne, head of e-commerce for Virgin Atlantic Airways. "With WebTrends 
analytics we can get an accurate view on how marketing campaigns have performed from initial clickthrough to 
online booking. This, coupled with accurate reporting on geographic trends and visitor behavior over time, allows us 
to optimize content and process flows to ensure ease of use and visitor satisfaction."
Travel-oriented businesses often host the most complicated web sites on the Web in terms of the sophistication of 
web analytics needed due to the complexity of the number of flight routes, accommodations and destinations 
available. WebTrends' ability to provide easy-to-use, wizard-driven Custom Reports to create new measures and 
compare new reporting dimensions, enables marketers to answer highly specific questions about user behavior and 
conversion activity. Additionally, building off of travel customers' successes with the company's first data warehouse 
offering, WebTrends Intelligence Suite(TM), the recently launched WebTrends Marketing Warehouse(TM) offers 
marketers unlimited exploration and segmentation of unique visitor-level data and offline and online customer 
events to drive highly targeted and relevant relationship marketing.
"For many travel companies, online bookings can account for the majority of their business' revenue, and 
WebTrends has a deep appreciation of the unique challenges they face as a result of our expertise in tailoring web 
analytics and key performance indicators to suit their specific needs," commented Greg Drew, WebTrends CEO 
and president. "We are chosen repeatedly by leading businesses in this sector, and we are looking forward to 
continuing to build our presence through the industry's most actionable web analytics, as well as new relationship 
marketing capabilities offered by the WebTrends Marketing Lab family."
About WebTrends Inc.
As the acknowledged global web analytics market leader for more than twelve years, WebTrends is now leading the 
category into Marketing Performance Management. With an uncompromising focus on delivering the most accurate 
and actionable metrics, WebTrends enables thousands of web-smart organizations to easily improve campaign 
performance and web site conversion as well as build stronger relationships with their customers. With the evolution 
of the enterprise solutions into the WebTrends Marketing Lab, the company stands alone in offering 
comprehensive, flexible and scalable web analytics as well as sophisticated, on-the-fly data exploration and 
customer targeting solutions for relationship marketing. Companies such as Ticketmaster, IKEA, Reuters, General 
Mills, US Bank and more than half of the Fortune and Global 500 rely on WebTrends as their trusted standard, not 
only for the award-winning technology, but also for a full range of consulting services and unmatched industry 
expertise across the broadest range of vertical markets. Through software and on-demand options and a full range 
of data collection methods, WebTrends is unique in its ability to meet any analysis objective with leading data 
integrity, privacy and security best practices. For more information, visit www.WebTrends.com.
WebTrends, WebTrends On Demand, WebTrends Analytics, WebTrends Marketing Lab, WebTrends Marketing 
Warehouse and WebTrends Intelligence Suite are registered trademarks of WebTrends Inc. in the United States 
and other countries. All other trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
CONTACT: WebTrends Inc. Corey Gault, 503-553-2682 corey.gault@webtrends.com or SHIFT Communications 
Mandy Mladenoff, 415-591-8420 mmladenoff@shiftcomm.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 19, 2006
WebTrends Continues to Lead the Way in Global Travel Industry; WebTrends Sees Soaring Demand as Travel 
Businesses Look to Market-Leading Analytics to Improve On....
End of Document
Web Reservations International Appoints Senior Industry Figures to its Board of Directors
Web Reservations International Appoints Senior Industry Figures to its 
Board of Directors 
Business Wire
March 1, 2006 Wednesday 3:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Editors
Length: 421 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland March 1, 2006
Body
Web Reservations International, one of the world's leading e-travel reservation companies, today appointed Mark 
Opzoomer and Brian Dunne to its board as non-executive directors.
Mark Opzoomer is currently managing partner of Bond Capital Partners. Previously he was managing director of 
Yahoo Europe, interim CEO of Blinkx, deputy managing director of Hodder Headline plc and commercial director of 
both Sega Europe and Virgin Communications. He is currently a board member of Rambler Media Group plc, 
Newbay Software and Oxigen II. He was formerly a director of Autonomy Corporation Plc. Mark holds an MBA from 
IMD, Lausanne, Switzerland, is qualified as a chartered accountant with PWC and earned a Bachelor of Commerce 
from Queen's University, Ontario, Canada.
Brian Dunne is currently executive vice president and CFO of ACE Aviation Holdings, the publicly quoted parent of 
Air Canada, Aeroplan LP, Jazz Air LP and a range of other businesses. Previously he was CFO and board director 
of Aer Lingus where he played a key role in transforming the Irish airline into a profitable low-fare carrier. Prior to 
joining Aer Lingus Brian worked for Arthur Andersen where he was a partner in the business consulting practice. He 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland and holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from 
University College Dublin.
Speaking about the board appointments, founder and CEO of Web Reservations International Ray Nolan said "I'm 
pleased to welcome Mark Opzoomer and Brian Dunne to the board at this exciting time of growth for WRI. Their 
direct and high level experience of online business, capital markets and global expansion will be invaluable to the 
board in planning the strategic growth of the company."
About Web Reservations International
Web Reservations International (WRI) is a leading internet travel retailer and distributor. Founded in 1999, it is the 
biggest global provider of confirmed online reservations for the budget accommodation sector. Brands include 
Hostelworld.com, Hostels.com, WorldRes.com and Trav.com. WRI booking engines also provide reservation 
technology to more than 3,000 affiliates including Ryanair.com, Lonelyplanet.com, AirAsia.com and Opodo.com. 
The company is privately owned and headquartered in Dublin, Ireland.
Web Reservations International Appoints Senior Industry Figures to its Board of Directors
For more information, please visit Web Reservations International at www.webresint.com.
CONTACT: Hostelworld.com Colm Hanratty, +353 (0)1 4980 734 or The Castle Group, Inc. Jenny Hoefel, 617-227-
0012 x233 jhoefel.hostelworld@thecastlegrp.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 2, 2006
End of Document
AirTran Airways Renews Agreement for Navitaire's Open Skies Reservation System
AirTran Airways Renews Agreement for Navitaire's Open Skies Reservation 
System 
Business Wire
February 7, 2006 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 552 words
Dateline: MINNEAPOLIS & ORLANDO, Fla. Feb. 7, 2006
Body
AirTran Airways (NYSE: AAI) has signed a business process outsourcing agreement for Navitaire's Open Skies 
hosted reservation system, renewing services provided under an existing five-year contract. Terms of the 
agreement were not disclosed.
Navitaire, a wholly owned Accenture (NYSE: ACN) BPO business, provides outsourced technology and business 
solutions to the airline industry. Its Open Skies system is an integrated Web-enabled reservation and inventory 
software suite that includes Internet, call center and airport departure control functionality.
A long-time Navitaire customer, AirTran is one of most successful and fastest-growing airlines in North America. In 
2004, with continued double digit growth in both revenue and passenger volume, AirTran surpassed $1 billion in 
annual revenues.
"The Navitaire Open Skies system continues to develop new and innovative tools that help us manage our 
reservations, distribution and inventory systems as AirTran continues to grow," said Kevin Healy, vice president of 
planning for AirTran Airways. "The AirTran business model is based on low cost, quality service; Navitaire is a 
leader in developing new technology and cost effective systems which support AirTran Airways' low cost network. 
These highly effective systems allow AirTran to maintain our three Georgia call centers. With this new agreement 
we not only extend our strong relationship with Navitaire, we also have the opportunity to control our operating 
costs in this area in the coming years."
"We salute AirTran's success in this highly competitive market," said John Dabkowski, managing director of 
Navitaire. "Navitaire's industry-leading solutions are proven to help airline leaders like AirTran Airways achieve 
high-performance results and enable profitable growth."
About AirTran Airways
AirTran Airways, one of America's largest low-fare airlines with 7,000 friendly, professional Crew Members, 
operates over 600 daily flights to 49 destinations. The airline's hub is at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International 
Airport, where it is the second largest carrier. AirTran Airways recently added the fuel-efficient Boeing 737-700 
AirTran Airways Renews Agreement for Navitaire's Open Skies Reservation System
aircraft to create America's youngest all-Boeing fleet. The airline is also the first carrier to install XM Satellite Radio 
on a commercial aircraft. For reservations or more information, visit airtran.com (America Online Keyword: AirTran).
About Navitaire
Navitaire provides reservation, direct distribution, revenue protection, operations management and recovery, 
decision-support and passenger revenue accounting technology to the airline industry through its hosted delivery 
model. The company's worldwide customer base comprises more than 60 airlines, including a majority of the 
world's most profitable carriers including JetBlue, AirAsia, AirTran Airways, GOL, Ryanair, Continental and Air New 
Zealand. A wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture, Navitaire is headquartered in Minneapolis, with offices in Salt 
Lake City, Austin, Auckland, London, Sydney, Manila and Prague. Its homepage is www.navitaire.com.
CONTACT: Navitaire Inc. Susan Adelman, +1 612-317-7284 or Accenture Jim Finlaw, 917-452-3249 
james.e.finlaw@accenture.com or AirTran Airways Tad Hutcheson, 678-254-7442 tad.hutcheson@airtran.com or 
Judy Graham-Weaver, 678-254-7448 judy.graham-weaver@airtran.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 8, 2006
End of Document
Q3 2005/06 Ryanair Holdings Earnings Conference Call - Research and Markets offers a brief of ' Ryanair 
Holdings ' Conference Call
Q3 2005/06 Ryanair Holdings Earnings Conference Call - Research and 
Markets offers a brief of 'Ryanair Holdings' Conference Call 
Business Wire
February 6, 2006 Monday 6:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 99 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland Feb. 6, 2006
Body
The Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Corporate Conference Call took place on 6-Feb-06 2:30pm UKT.
Co. reported 3Q05 adjusted net profit of EUR37m. Co. remains cautious in the outlook for the remainder of 4Q05. 
Full-year net profit guidance is unchanged.
More 
information 
on 
this 
Conference 
Call 
can 
be 
obtained 
from 
Research 
and 
Markets 
at 
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/transcripts/79190
This document provides a non-biased summary of the conference call detailing the key points and the full Q&A 
session.
CONTACT: Research and Markets Laura Wood Fax: +353 1 4100 980 press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 7, 2006
End of Document
The Coalition for Luggage Security Congratulates Ryanair
The Coalition for Luggage Security Congratulates Ryanair 
Business Wire
January 27, 2006 Friday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2006 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Airline Writers; Travel Writers
Length: 510 words
Dateline: NEW YORK Jan. 27, 2006
Body
The Coalition for Luggage Security reports a trend in airlines charging for carry-on and checked luggage. Ryanair 
Airline, a low-cost Dublin based airline, has announced that they will be charging for checked luggage and cutting 
fare prices for those without luggage.
"Ryanair and others, such as Flybe, are part of the trend we have been discussing. By decreasing fares for those 
who travel without luggage and charging a fee for checked-in bags, Ryanair will realize the savings associated with 
lighter loads. By making a profit from charging for bags, and the benefits of moving passengers through the airport 
quickly by not being held up on security lines, the Coalitions luggage and passenger discussions begin to attract a 
larger audience," said Harvey Abelson, Coalition Director.
"Once again we see the impact luggage has on airlines, and how airlines can become more profitable while keeping 
air travel secure and more enjoyable. Smaller airlines are taking the hint, and we urge larger airlines to follow suit. If 
a smaller airline can decrease airfares, lessen aircraft load and increase security while speeding up the travel 
process, imagine the savings in money and time larger airlines would reap. At the same time, air travel will become 
more secure. All of these elements have been laid out in our white paper (http://www.usxp.com/securitywp.pdf). As 
the trend of hands free travel grows, we'll be taking airlines, airplanes and airports out of the terrorists gun sights, 
and returning air travel to the airlines and the traveler," said Richard A. Altomare, Founder and Chairman of the 
Coalition for Luggage Security, and CEO of Universal Express, Inc. (OTCBB: USXP).
Reference article:
http://uk.news.yahoo.com/25012006/344/ryanair-introduce-baggage- charge.html (Due to its length, this URL may 
need to be copied/pasted into your Internet browser's address field. Remove the extra space if one exists).
About The Coalition for Luggage Security
The Coalition for Luggage Security was established to ensure the safety of travelers through alternate means of 
luggage transportation. The Coalition consists of prominent businesspersons and companies that educate the 
public, Congress and the Administration on the importance of solving the luggage and cargo safety issues that exist 
in airlines and airports.
The Coalition for Luggage Security Congratulates Ryanair
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: The statements contained herein, 
which are not historical, are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements including, but not limited 
to, certain delays beyond the Company's control with respect to market acceptance of new technologies, products 
and services, delays in testing and evaluation of products and services, and other risks detailed from time to time in 
the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CONTACT: Coalition for Luggage Security Harvey Abelson, 212-239-2575 www.luggagesecuritycoalition.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: January 28, 2006
End of Document
Ryanair Selects WebTrends On Demand to Optimize Online Travel Bookings for Europe's Largest Low-Fares 
Airline
Ryanair Selects WebTrends On Demand to Optimize Online Travel Bookings 
for Europe's Largest Low-Fares Airline 
Business Wire
December 13, 2005 Tuesday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2005 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Editors; Marketing Writers
Length: 705 words
Dateline: LONDON Dec. 13, 2005
Body
Ryanair, Europe's largest low-fares airline, has brought on-board WebTrends Inc., the global web analytics leader, 
to enable it to have a complete understanding of visitor activity across all of its 19 different language web sites.
As the most searched travel web site in Europe, with over 27 million passengers choosing to fly with the low-cost 
airline during 2004, Ryanair has selected WebTrends(R) On Demand to analyze web site visitor behavior. 
WebTrends 7 On Demand was the only web analytics solution evaluated that would provide the comprehensive 
analysis Ryanair needed, given the complexity of having the most routes and the broadest range of languages of 
any low-fares airline online.
As the world leader in online travel bookings, Ryanair will be able to identify web visitor trends across its European 
sites and utilize the in-depth reporting provided by WebTrends On Demand. This is crucial to advertisers who need 
an understanding of the habits and preferences of each country's web users in order to target campaigns more 
effectively.
"With 98% of our flight bookings being made over the Internet, analyzing web site and visitor behavior is 
increasingly important," said Santina Doherty, head of advertising and ancillary revenue, Ryanair. "As we need to 
have a clear understanding of our web visitors, a key benefit of working with WebTrends On Demand is the 
accurate and actionable management reports which enable us to make informed decisions quickly -- a must-have in 
our fast-moving industry sector."
WebTrends SmartView(TM) is also an essential tool for Ryanair, making it easy to evaluate page real estate to 
optimize link prominence, content effectiveness and improve page conversion. With WebTrends SmartView, 
Ryanair can evaluate the popularity of each individual page link with click-through, path, conversion metrics, as well 
as visitor segment behavior, superimposed directly on the page being viewed.
"Increasingly the web is the first port of call for people looking to book flights and holidays," said Nick Sharp, vice 
president and general manager, WebTrends EMEA. "As a result competition is stiff within this sector and insight 
into web visitors and their needs is vital in order to stay ahead of the game. With WebTrends On Demand, Ryanair 
Ryanair Selects WebTrends On Demand to Optimize Online Travel Bookings for Europe's Largest Low-Fares 
Airline
can measure its web site visitor behavior and utilize accurate reporting to identify which areas entice visitors and 
which need optimization."
About Ryanair
Ryanair was Europe's original low-fares airline and is still Europe's largest low-fares carrier. In the current year 
Ryanair will carry over 35m. passengers on 267 low-fare routes across 21 European countries. Ryanair has 15 
European bases and a fleet of over 100 brand new Boeing 737-800 aircraft, with firm orders for a further 125 new 
aircraft, which will be delivered over the next seven years. These additional aircraft will allow Ryanair to double in 
size to over 70m. passengers per year by 2012. Ryanair currently employs a team of 3000 people.
About WebTrends
Thousands of web-smart organizations worldwide, including more than half of the Fortune and Global 500, rely on 
WebTrends to improve their web site conversions and optimize their marketing performance for maximum return on 
investment. As the worldwide market leader for web analytics, WebTrends has become the trusted standard not 
only for award-winning technology, but also for a full range of consulting services and unmatched industry 
expertise. By delivering accurate and actionable metrics through both on-demand and software options, WebTrends 
ensures that its customers are positioned for both immediate and long-term success with a solution that can adapt 
to ever-changing business and technical requirements. For more information, visit www.WebTrends.com.
WebTrends and WebTrends On Demand are trademarks or registered trademarks of WebTrends Inc. in the United 
States and other countries. All other trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
CONTACT: WebTrends Inc. Corey Gault, 503-553-2682 (Public Relations) corey.gault@webtrends.com or SHIFT 
Communications Mandy Mladenoff, 415-591-8420 mmladenoff@shiftcomm.com or Octopus Communications 
Cherry Giles/Thomas Flisher, 01753 672 755 webtrends@octopuscomms.net
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 14, 2005
End of Document
WebTrends Strengthens Leading Position in European Web Analytics Market; Accuracy and Actionability Key 
Factors for Leading European Businesses Selecting WebTre....
WebTrends Strengthens Leading Position in European Web Analytics 
Market; Accuracy and Actionability Key Factors for Leading European 
Businesses Selecting WebTrends 7 
Business Wire
November 2, 2005 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2005 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 523 words
Dateline: LONDON Nov. 2, 2005
Body
WebTrends, the global web analytics leader, today announced its continued dominance in the European web 
analytics market, recording a staggering 86% year-over-year increase in European Q3 bookings for WebTrends(R) 
7 web analytics solutions.
Many of Europe's top business names including British Gas, EMAP, Epson Europe BV, LVMH, National Savings & 
Investments, Office of National Statistics, Ryanair, Skoda, T-Mobile Deutschland GmbH, Virgin Atlantic, VNU and 
Volvo turned to WebTrends this last quarter for its unrivalled ability to deliver accurate and actionable analytics that 
increase online conversions and maximise ROI from web marketing expenditures.
WebTrends, which has led the global web analytic market since its founding more than 10 years ago, maintains its 
position as the first choice across Europe for software and hosted, on-demand analytics due to its flexibility and 
sophisticated reporting, as well as for its support of accuracy and privacy best practices. WebTrends business 
consulting services, helping customers to identify and optimise business-critical KPIs (key performance indicators) 
and the company's in-depth vertical sector knowledge are also among key reasons why leading organisations have 
chosen WebTrends web analytics solutions.
Additional European organizations selecting or upgrading to WebTrends 7 last quarter include avarto Mobile GmbH, 
BP International, Council of the European Union, Die Schweizerische Post, Hitachi Europe, National Bank of 
Kuwait, Ricoh Europe BV, T-Mobile (UK) Ltd, T-Mobile Czech Republic a.s., T-Mobile Nederland BV and TV2 
Danmark.
"WebTrends long history of dominance within North American and international markets is due to the level of 
service, flexibility and clear, actionable insight we consistently provide to our customers," said Nick Sharp, VP and 
general manager EMEA, WebTrends. "Our recent success is yet another demonstration of our proven expertise in 
this marketplace which is why WebTrends is chosen time and time again by leading European organisations."
About WebTrends
WebTrends Strengthens Leading Position in European Web Analytics Market; Accuracy and Actionability Key 
Factors for Leading European Businesses Selecting WebTre....
Thousands of web-smart organisations worldwide, including more than half of the Fortune and Global 500, rely on 
WebTrends to improve their web site conversions and optimize their marketing performance for maximum return on 
investment. As the worldwide market leader for web analytics, WebTrends has become the trusted standard not 
only for award-winning technology, but also for a full range of consulting services and unmatched industry 
expertise. By delivering accurate and actionable metrics through both on-demand and software options, WebTrends 
ensures that its customers are positioned for both immediate and long-term success with a solution that can adapt 
to ever-changing business and technical requirements. For more information, visit www.webtrends.com
WebTrends and WebTrends On Demand are trademarks or registered trademarks of WebTrends Inc. in the United 
States and other countries. All other trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
CONTACT: Octopus Communications (for WebTrends) Cherry Giles / Thomas Flisher, 01753 672 755 
webtrends@octopuscomms.net
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: November 3, 2005
End of Document
ISGN Acquires Majority Stake in GMACCM Technology Europe Limited; Acquisition Signals Expansion of 
ISGN's Business in Enterprise Risk Management Market
ISGN Acquires Majority Stake in GMACCM Technology Europe Limited; 
Acquisition Signals Expansion of ISGN's Business in Enterprise Risk 
Management Market 
Business Wire
October 19, 2005 Wednesday 9:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2005 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 941 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland Oct. 19, 2005
Body
ISG NovaSoft (ISGN), a K.K. Birla group company, announced today its acquisition of a majority stake in GMACCM 
Technology Europe Limited (GTEL), a software solutions company based in Ireland, from GMAC Commercial 
Holding Corp. GTEL's Risk Management Compass (RMC(TM)) is a purpose-built, user-friendly solution for risk 
management and adheres to regulations such as Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX).
"RMC(TM) offers a clear alternative to all other approaches towards achieving full compliance life-cycle 
management," said Krishna Srinivasan, Chief Executive Officer of ISGN. "The acquisition of GTEL will enable us to 
offer compliance solutions to global 2000 businesses, mid-size enterprises, governments and educational 
institutions," he added.
RMC was designed with extensive user participation and has been successfully deployed in major enterprises 
including GMAC Commercial Mortgage, Ryanair and others. RMC deploys in as little as four weeks and reduces 
ongoing compliance costs by as much as 50 percent.
According to analysts, the market for ERM and compliance is at USD 15.5 billion for 2005 and will rise to USD 80 
billion by 2009.
-- SOX is the dominant IT Spend
-- 2005 - Firms expect to spend USD 15.5B on a wide range of compliance programs.
-- For the next five years, this amounts to an USD 80B problem-AMR.
-- 47% of companies spending more than USD 10M & 29% spending USD 6 - USD 10 M on SOX
-Business Roundtable/
CFO.COM 3/05
ISGN Acquires Majority Stake in GMACCM Technology Europe Limited; Acquisition Signals Expansion of 
ISGN's Business in Enterprise Risk Management Market
This acquisition signals ISGN's expansion in Ireland. It also offers customers in the EU market an attractive 
nearshore/offshore alternative at a blended rate, with specific focus on Ireland as the hub of operations. Leveraging 
its highly skilled workforce, the Irish operation will serve as a highly capable and cost-effective near-shore presence 
to the United States.
"ISGN's extensive experience and reach with global customers in the areas of deploying, maintaining, and 
extending enterprise-grade applications complements our offering, and we look forward to bringing two leaders of 
the global software development revolution, Ireland and India (the two 'I's) together to drive dramatic growth in the 
coming year," said Will Gessner, Vice President of GTEL. Though conceived in the beginning as a part of 
GMACCM's overall operations, GTEL was and is a mature player in its own right, run as an independent 
outsourced product development business, with GMACCM as an anchor client. GTEL has experience in serving 
several Financial Services customers and has completed projects for numerous companies across multiple 
continents.
"Having developed the cutting edge risk management software solutions aimed at providing customers with a cost 
effective and auditable means of managing compliance risk for their organizations, we felt that the expertise and 
experience of ISGN in the technology field was more suited to bringing this compliance solution to the next level," 
said Arnold O'Brien, Non-Executive Director of GMAC Commercial Mortgage Bank, Europe PLC. With mature 
technology capability (.NET) and strong process capability, the combined offering possesses robust software 
service and delivery capability to customers worldwide.
In addition to working closely with each other for over 18 months, the two firms have also been working in close 
association with Microsoft, and a strong foundation of teamwork and integration is already in place. The GTEL 
development framework provides accelerated product development capability in .NET and also provides IT security 
controls monitoring and support.
About ISGN
ISG NovaSoft (ISGN) is a global enterprise software products and services company providing value driven 
business solutions to customers worldwide. ISGN has over 12 years of industry experience, a network of over 350 
skilled professionals, and over 2.25 million person hours of project experience.
ISGN is a company in the K. K. Birla group, a leading industrial group in India with annual sales of over USD 2 
billion. ISGN is focused on three core business lines - Outsourced Software Product Development (OPD), 
Application Management Outsourcing (AMO) and Enterprise Risk Management (SOX, Basel II, and Clause 49) - 
that are supported by a strong professional services experience on SAP for Global 2000 companies worldwide.
ISGN has significant vertical domain expertise in Manufacturing, Banking & Financial Services, and Software 
Development. The core and supporting business lines for the ISGN portfolio is linked by a common theme of 
effective outsourcing of enterprise applications with relevant functional expertise and delivery capability.
News releases and other information about ISGN, its products and services are available at www.isgnovasoft.com.
About GMAC Commercial Holding Corp.
GMAC Commercial Holding Corp. is a leading financial services resource for the global commercial real estate 
industry. The company, through its varied business units and subsidiaries, has extensive operations in lending, 
investment advisory services for debt and equity real estate, non-performing loan and asset management, loan 
servicing, affordable housing finance and real estate investment banking.
GMACCH has a network of offices throughout the United States and operations in Canada, France, Germany, 
India, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.
ISGN Acquires Majority Stake in GMACCM Technology Europe Limited; Acquisition Signals Expansion of 
ISGN's Business in Enterprise Risk Management Market
News releases and other information about GMACCH, its products and services are available at 
www.gmaccm.com.
CONTACT: GMACCM Technology Europe Limited Business Development Manager Linda Daly, +353 44 32506 
Cell: +353 87 2252914 Fax: +353 44 32696 Linda_Daly@gmaccm.com or 20:20 Media Account Manager 
Sriganesh R, +91 44 28260145 Sriganesh@2020india.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 20, 2005
End of Document
Navitaire Acquires Forte Solutions' Operations Management Software and Airline Customer Contracts
Navitaire Acquires Forte Solutions' Operations Management Software and 
Airline Customer Contracts 
Business Wire
September 14, 2005 Wednesday 12:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2005 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 439 words
Dateline: MINNEAPOLIS Sept. 14, 2005
Body
Navitaire has expanded its hosted technology solutions for airlines with the acquisition of key assets of Forte 
Solutions, including all of Forte's airline customer contracts. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
With the acquisition, Navitaire -- a wholly owned Accenture business that provides technology and business 
solutions to the airline industry on an outsourced basis -- has added Forte's suite of operations and crew 
management control capabilities to its service portfolio.
The acquisition of Forte's airline customer contracts adds 14 new airlines, primarily based in the Asia Pacific region, 
to Navitaire's customer list. As part of this transaction, Navitaire has also hired approximately 25 Forte employees.
Forte's operations management software - known as the Geneva system - is a comprehensive platform for airline 
operations and crew management planning, tracking and compliance requirements. The system enables airlines to 
forecast, organize, plan, predict, measure and report on activity in an integrated, real-time environment.
The acquisition of Forte's Geneva system marks another key step in Navitaire's strategy to expand its portfolio of 
high-value information technology solutions for airlines. Navitaire now offers a full operations package - consisting 
of an operations control system through the Geneva suite coupled with Navitaire's SkySolver recovery application -- 
along with its broad range of reservation, direct distribution, revenue management, revenue accounting, revenue 
protection and decision-support services.
"As flight control and crew management functions are the core of airline operations, the Geneva system delivers 
'must have' capabilities," said Mike Dickoff, CEO of Navitaire. "This acquisition enhances Navitaire's ability to 
provide advanced, cost-effective solutions to growing and successful airlines around the world."
About Navitaire
Navitaire provides reservation, direct distribution, revenue protection, operations recovery, decision-support and 
passenger revenue accounting technology to the airline industry through its hosted delivery model. The company's 
worldwide customer base comprises more than 60 airlines, including a majority of the world's most profitable 
Navitaire Acquires Forte Solutions' Operations Management Software and Airline Customer Contracts
carriers including JetBlue, AirAsia, AirTran, GOL, Ryanair, Continental and Air New Zealand. A wholly owned 
subsidiary of Accenture, Navitaire is headquartered in Minneapolis, with offices in Salt Lake City, Austin, Auckland, 
Sydney, Manila and Prague. Its homepage is www.navitaire.com.
CONTACT: 
Navitaire 
Inc. 
Susan 
Adelman, 
612-317-7284 
or 
Accenture 
Jim 
Finlaw, 
917-452-3249 
james.e.finlaw@accenture.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 15, 2005
End of Document
Quickcut Agreement with AP AdSEND Facilitates Advertiser Access to Nearly 3,600 U.S. Publications
Quickcut Agreement with AP AdSEND Facilitates Advertiser Access to 
Nearly 3,600 U.S. Publications 
Business Wire
September 8, 2005 Thursday 2:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2005 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors
Length: 621 words
Dateline: LOS ANGELES Sept. 8, 2005
Body
Advertisers around the world that use the specifications-driven Quickcut approach to deliver print-perfect digital 
advertising soon will be able to send their files using the Quickcut system to the nearly 3,600 U.S. publications 
served by AP AdSEND, the electronic ad delivery service of The Associated Press.
Under the terms of an agreement the two companies signed recently, AP AdSEND is enabling Quickcut's customer 
ad agencies worldwide to deliver ads seamlessly to the publications that it serves. Quickcut, the leading 
international provider of digital production workflow solutions for print advertising, is developing and implementing a 
unique interface that will transfer ad files from any of its 5,000 clients worldwide to the AP AdSEND system.
Quickcut also is populating its extensive global publication database with the specifications for these publications, 
and will verify the specifications prior to delivery of live ads. Files will be built according to the exact specifications of 
each publication, from physical dimensions to ink densities.
More than 5,000 clients and licensees worldwide distribute more than 1.5 million print advertising files annually 
through the Quickcut network. Quickcut customers include many of the world's leading advertisers and publishers, 
including ACP, BBDO Worldwide, Daily Telegraph, DDB Worldwide, Dell, EMI, Fairfax Magazines, Foote, Cone & 
Belding, Interpublic Group, Leo Burnett, Lowe & Partners Worldwide, McCann Erickson, Weiden & Kennedy, 
Momentum Worldwide, News Limited, Ogilvy & Mather, Omnicom Group, Proctor & Gamble, Publicis, Ryanair, 
Saatchi & Saatchi, Sony Entertainment and TBWA Worldwide.
"This association with AP AdSEND allows advertisers around the world who use the Quickcut system to create, 
validate and deliver print-perfect files seamlessly to the majority of newspapers here in the United States, in a way 
that's totally transparent to the destination publications. We couldn't be more pleased than to be working with AP 
AdSEND to extend our reach in North America," remarked Dean Benjamin, Executive Vice President, Quickcut 
North America.
About The Associated Press
Quickcut Agreement with AP AdSEND Facilitates Advertiser Access to Nearly 3,600 U.S. Publications
The Associated Press is the world's oldest and largest newsgathering organization, providing content to more than 
15,000 news outlets with a daily reach of 1 billion people around the world. Its multimedia services are distributed 
by satellite and the Internet to more than 120 nations. For more information, visit www.ap.org.
About Quickcut
Quickcut is a leading international provider of digital production workflow solutions to the advertising, publishing and 
print industries, and the only company that uses each publication's exact production specifications, including color 
profiles, to guide and manage advertising materials from the point of creation to the point of print delivery to ensure 
quality results. The company counts over 5,000 clients and Licensees worldwide distributing more than 1.5 million 
print advertising files annually through the Quickcut PageStore network. Additional Quickcut products rely on 
proven technology to ensure a range of prepress job files will be properly prepared, color-managed, delivered and 
validated according to publishing and print specifications -- saving time and resources for advertisers and 
publishers. Headquartered in Sydney, Australia, Quickcut Ltd. has offices and Licensees around the globe, in 
Australia, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom, and the 
United States. More information about Quickcut is available at www.quickcut.com.
CONTACT: Hebert Communications John Hebert, 617-232-1161 john@hebertcomms.com or Quickcut LLC Dean 
Benjamin, 805-215-8102 dbenjamin@quickcut.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 9, 2005
End of Document
WebTrends Appoints Nick Sharp as Vice President and General Manager of EMEA Operations; Expansion of 
Responsibilities Comes after Several Years of Stellar Growt....
WebTrends Appoints Nick Sharp as Vice President and General Manager of 
EMEA Operations; Expansion of Responsibilities Comes after Several Years 
of Stellar Growth and Performance 
Business Wire
August 30, 2005 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2005 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Technology Writers
Length: 568 words
Dateline: PORTLAND, Ore. Aug. 30, 2005
Body
WebTrends Inc., the global web analytics leader, today announced the appointment of Nick Sharp to vice president 
and general manager, EMEA. With several years experience as WebTrends' vice president of EMEA sales and 
marketing, Sharp has led EMEA's most experienced sales and marketing teams in the web analytics industry, 
developing deep industry expertise across key markets such as retail, financial services, telecommunications, 
media, entertainment and travel, resulting in dramatically increased EMEA sales. WebTrends EMEA has built 
strategic relationships with the region's most prestigious clients, including BMW, HSBC, IKEA, O2, Reed Elsevier, 
Ryanair, Sony Ericsson, T-Mobile, Vodafone and Volvo.
With increased responsibility in his vice president and general manager role, Sharp will focus on expanding 
WebTrends' 10 years of market-leading presence throughout the region, ensuring the sales and marketing 
organizations continue to engage with world-class enterprise companies seeking WebTrends award-winning on-
demand and software solutions. Sharp will also oversee all of the technical support, training, implementation and 
business consulting services across EMEA that enable WebTrends' customers to achieve outstanding business 
results and ROI for their web analytics investment.
"Over the past few years, we have finely tuned the industry's most experienced and dedicated team and have 
enjoyed working with the best and brightest companies across EMEA. We will expand this advantage as even more 
customers realize that WebTrends offers the most accurate and actionable hosted and software solutions, and a full 
range of services to deliver the ROI they demand," said Nick Sharp, vice president and general manager, EMEA. 
"We now have experienced teams executing on all fronts and a world-class customer base that benefits from our 
more than 10 years of experience operating in EMEA."
"Nick has been an invaluable addition to the executive team of WebTrends, and we are fortunate to expand his 
leadership across EMEA," stated Greg Drew, CEO and president of WebTrends Inc. "As a private company with 
accelerating growth, we now require a vice president and general manager with Nick's broad perspective of our 
fastest-growing region, which has unique needs."
WebTrends Appoints Nick Sharp as Vice President and General Manager of EMEA Operations; Expansion of 
Responsibilities Comes after Several Years of Stellar Growt....
About WebTrends
Thousands of web-smart organizations worldwide, including more than half of the Fortune and Global 500, rely on 
WebTrends to improve their web site conversions and optimize their marketing performance for maximum return on 
investment. As the worldwide market leader for web analytics, WebTrends has become the trusted standard not 
only for award-winning technology, but also for a full range of consulting services and unmatched industry 
expertise. By delivering accurate and actionable metrics through both on-demand and software options, WebTrends 
ensures that its customers are positioned for both immediate and long-term success with a solution that can adapt 
to ever-changing business and technical requirements. For more information, visit www.WebTrends.com.
WebTrends and WebTrends On Demand are trademarks or registered trademarks of WebTrends Inc. in the United 
States and other countries. All other trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
CONTACT: WebTrends Inc. Corey Gault, 503-553-2682 corey.gault@webtrends.com or SHIFT Communications 
Mandy Mladenoff, 415-591-8420 mmladenoff@shiftcomm.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Graphic
 
Nick Sharp appointed vice president and general manager, EMEA, for WebTrends Inc. (Photo: Business Wire)
Load-Date: August 31, 2005
End of Document
Research and Markets: In-flight Entertainment Going from Strength to Strength in 2005
Research and Markets: In-flight Entertainment Going from Strength to 
Strength in 2005 
Business Wire
July 12, 2005 Tuesday 3:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2005 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; Travel Writers
Length: 695 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland July 12, 2005
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c20666) has announced the addition of The 
In-flight Handbook to their offering
For a branch of the entertainment industry, the IFE business has more than its fair share of dismal jimmies. Not only 
are they not very entertaining themselves, but they also take a dim view of anything new, fresh and, well, 
entertaining.
Take one of the big success stories of 2004 - the handheld digEplayer. The jeremiahs had a field day when inventor 
Bill Boyer and his young team set off in search of customers not much more than 12 months ago. "No studio will 
trust them with content," they squawked. "The players will all be stolen. The flight attendants will be driven to 
distraction. The sky will surely fall." Hit the fast-forward button and what do we hear? Yes, the voice of Michael 
O'Leary, Ryanair's famously dollar-loving CEO, revealing in December that passenger uptake in the first month of 
the low-fare carrier's digEplayer trial had been exactly ten times the three per cent needed to cover the investment. 
So ecstatic was the ferociously competitive O'Leary that he briefly dropped his guard, urging the opposition to get 
into IFE too.
A nasty moment for the doomsters, and not the only one last year. Broadband connectivity has been the cause of 
much tooth-sucking in recent times. As have onboard cellphone and a well engineered scheme to get rid of pesky 
IFE seatboxes once and for all. Well, sorry all you Nostradamuses out there, it's been nothing but blue skies for the 
three of them lately.
Broadband trailblazer Connexion by Boeing now has four airlines offering service, with another four in the pipe. 
Chief competitor Inmarsat is due to launch its first broadband satellite this spring, has been named as the Airbus 
solution of choice, and is hearing from its equipment and service community that the airlines are queuing up for 
what they have to offer. Having feasted heartily on the failure of in-flight phone over the years, the vultures were 
looking forward to tucking into onboard cell phone by way of dessert. No such luck: providers ARINC/Telenor and 
OnAir are sure they've cracked the technical problem and are knuckling down realistically to the hard work of 
winning the approval of the airworthiness and national telecoms authorities.
Research and Markets: In-flight Entertainment Going from Strength to Strength in 2005
"Out of sight and out of harm's way" is the philosophy behind Inflight Canada's iCACHE system for the underfloor 
installation of the IFE kit that currently sits beneath the seat, to the detriment of passenger comfort and its own 
serviceability. Despite the plain-as-the-nose-on-your-face good sense of iCACHE, it was stonily ignored by the 
industry right up until October, when the reborn Air Canada declared that from now on all its seatboxes were going 
under the floor. What's more, the carrier is using iCACHE to take IFE into terra incognita - its fleet of brand-new 
regional jets.
And here lies the real significance of Air Canada's swashbuckling move - the word is out that embedded IFE has 
now been squeezed down to weight levels and form factors that make it a realistic option for the low-fare and 
regional carriers who are casting around for service differentiators. Which is why this year's In-flight Passenger 
Entertainment and Communcations (IPEC) conference in London is yoked with the new Low-Fare and Regional 
Aviation (LARA) Summit. The events of the last 12 months make this event a marriage made in heaven.
So if your tastes run to sackcloth, ashes and half-empty cups, please go and find another parade on which to rain - 
IFE/communications is in the shape of its life and looking to go from strength to strength in 2005.
The In-flight Handbook contains:
- Directory of international airlines who operate in-flight passenger entertainment and communications systems 
onboard, including fleet info and contacts.
- Directory of worldwide suppliers and manufacturers and in-flight entertainment and passenger communications 
systems and products.
- Industry trends articles
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c20666
CONTACT: 
Research 
and 
Markets 
Laura 
Wood 
Senior 
Manager 
Fax: 
+353 
1 
4100 
980 
press@researchandmarkets.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: July 13, 2005
End of Document
e. Digital Corporation Expects Business Growth in Final Quarters of Fiscal 2005; Proprietary Video/Audio 
Technology Platform Fueling Business Expansion
e.Digital Corporation Expects Business Growth in Final Quarters of Fiscal 
2005; Proprietary Video/Audio Technology Platform Fueling Business 
Expansion 
Business Wire
December 22, 2004 Wednesday 4:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Business Editors; High-Tech Writers; Telecommunications Writers
Length: 853 words
Dateline: SAN DIEGO Dec. 22, 2004
Body
e.Digital Corporation (OTC:EDIG), a leading innovator of proprietary digital technology platforms, today announced 
it expects revenues and advance payments, on purchase orders for products scheduled to ship next quarter, of 
over $2.2 million for the quarter ending December 31, 2004 with further business growth expected in the fourth 
quarter ending March 31, 2005.
"Our business and revenue growth is expected to be fueled primarily by customer-branded devices based on our 
proprietary video/audio technology platform," commented Atul Anandpura, president and chief executive officer of 
e.Digital. "In particular, through APS/Wencor's digEplayer(TM), the in-flight entertainment (IFE) industry is gaining 
an increasing appreciation for the outstanding picture and audio quality of our platform along with its long battery life 
and ease of use."
Earlier this month, the chief executive officer of Europe's No. 1 low fares airline, Ryanair, revealed it had 
experienced ten times the demand it expected for its trial of the digEplayer, identifying it as a potentially lucrative 
source of revenue for Ryanair and other low-fare carriers (www.shephard.co.uk/inflight).
Anandpura continued, "Beyond the IFE industry, our video/audio technology platform has brought us new business 
opportunities from industries and companies where our platform's features enable their product plans."
"By continuing to expand the capabilities of our patented MicroOS(TM), e.Digital is at the forefront of innovating and 
integrating the latest technology into business and entertainment devices. While we are proud of our early 
pioneering efforts, the majority of our business growth is expected to come through successful partnering with 
companies who share our vision of enabling large business and consumer markets with user-friendly devices that 
are either pre-loaded with, or can easily and quickly access, secure content through new high-speed downloading 
protocols, with our patent-pending hardware encryption protecting the content."
Concluded Anandpura, "This past year, we positioned our engineering resources, technology platforms and 
business opportunities for revenue and margin growth. In 2005, we expect increasing orders from customers in the 
e. Digital Corporation Expects Business Growth in Final Quarters of Fiscal 2005; Proprietary Video/Audio 
Technology Platform Fueling Business Expansion
travel and leisure industry. We also expect to announce new customers for next-generation versions of our 
video/audio technology platform from both inside and outside of the travel and leisure industry. At the upcoming 
Consumer Electronics Show (January 6-9, 2005), the next generation of our video/audio technology platform is 
scheduled to be unveiled in private meetings by e.Digital and by a large unannounced Asian customer. Both 
companies are scheduled to hold meetings with certain current and prospective customers. We expect significant 
business from this latest version of our platform will be announced within the next two quarters. Because of this and 
other new business developments, we are hiring additional engineering resources to meet increasing business 
demand. We look forward to releasing further business updates with revenue guidance, and announcing new 
business developments next quarter and throughout the coming year."
About e.Digital Corporation
e.Digital Corporation partners with leading, innovative companies, designing and providing manufacturing services 
for their branded digital video, digital audio and wireless products based on the Company's proprietary 
MicroOS(TM)-enabled technology platforms. e.Digital specializes in the delivery and management of open and 
secure digital content through its Personal Video, Personal Audio, Automotive and Wireless technology platforms. 
e.Digital's services include the licensing of the Company's MicroOS(TM), custom software and hardware 
development, industrial design, and manufacturing services through the Company's manufacturing partners. For 
more information about e.Digital and its technology platforms, please visit the company website at 
www.edigital.com.
Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform of 1995: All statements made in this 
document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are 
based on the then-current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about the businesses of the 
Company and the industries and markets in which the company operates. Those statements are not guarantees of 
future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that will be difficult to predict. Therefore, actual 
outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. 
More information about potential factors that could affect the Company can be found in its most recent Form 10-K, 
Form 10-Q and other reports and statements filed by e.Digital Corporation with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission ("SEC"). e.Digital Corporation disclaims any intent or obligation to update those forward-looking 
statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by it.
CONTACT: e.Digital Corporation Robert Putnam, 858-679-1504 Ext. 168 rputnam@edigital.com
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: December 23, 2004
End of Document
Navitaire Adds Four New Customers
Navitaire Adds Four New Customers 
Business Wire
October 1, 2004 Friday 12:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Travel Writers; High-Tech Writers; Business Editors; Business Editors; High-Tech Writers; Travel 
Writers
Length: 374 words
Dateline: MINNEAPOLIS Oct. 1, 2004
Body
Navitaire, a leading provider of online reservations and other services to the airline industry, has added four new 
customers. With these new carriers, Navitaire is expanding its roster of clients to now include regional airlines.
The four new customers, who join a growing list of carriers operating on the Navitaire airline distribution, decision 
support and operations platforms, include:
-- Three low-fare airlines, Vueling, a new airline headquartered in Barcelona, Spain; SkyEurope Airlines, based in 
Central Europe (Slovakia, Hungary, and Poland); and the new low fare airline based in Singapore backed by 
Qantas, Temasek Holdings and other Singaporean interests which will be launched later this year; and
-- Independence Air, the new Washington-Dulles based carrier, born out of the old Atlantic Coast Airlines, and the 
first regional airline to re-invent itself as a low-fare carrier.
With the addition of these four new customers, Navitaire now powers more than 30 airline reservation systems 
around the world, supporting the direct sale of more than 75 percent of the tickets sold through each of the airline's 
Web sites. Additionally, Navitaire has the highest average online sales percentage of any major reservation 
provider in the airline industry.
"Our innovative solutions position us well to accommodate the growth needs of the new generation carriers as well 
as support the transformation of established carriers in the industry," said John Dabkowski, senior vice president of 
sales and marketing at Navitaire.
About Navitaire
Navitaire Inc. provides reservations, direct distribution, revenue protection, operations recovery, decision-support 
and passenger revenue accounting services to the airline industry through its hosted delivery model. The 
company's worldwide customer base comprises more than 45 airlines, including six of the world's 10 largest 
airlines, and such successful carriers as jetBlue, Air Asia, GOL Airlines, Ryanair, Continental Airlines, and Air New 
Zealand. A wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture (NYSE: ACN), Navitaire is headquartered in Minneapolis, with 
offices in Salt Lake City, Austin, Sydney, Manila and Prague. Its homepage is www.navitaire.com
Navitaire Adds Four New Customers
CONTACT: Navitaire Inc. Susan Adelman +1 (612) 317-7284
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 2, 2004
End of Document
Research and Markets: European Low Cost Airline Industry Continues To Prosper
Research and Markets: European Low Cost Airline Industry Continues To 
Prosper 
Business Wire
September 30, 2004 Thursday 10:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Distribution: Travel Writers; Business Editors; Business Editors; Travel Writers
Length: 699 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland Sept. 30, 2004
Body
Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com) has announced the addition of European Low Cost 
(No-Frills) Airline Industry to their offering
In recent years the airline industry has suffered heavily: stocks have plummeted and ticket prices are at all time 
lows. News headlines such as 'The unpalatable truth' have considered the dire straits of the industry. The flag 
carriers (national airlines) have certainly been forced to economise, cutting the number of short route European 
journey where costs are too high. Sabena, Belgium's national airline and one of the oldest in the world has become 
history. Swiss Air has had similar liquidity problems and has had to be bailed out by the Swiss government. Even 
now they are not running a full service.
Low-cost carriers however, have turned away many problems that could be coupled with consumer confidence, and 
have remained cost-effective. Europe's Budget airlines such as Ryanair and EasyJet and Go, are also however 
flying high. After a brief post-September 11th dip and global airline recession the Ryanair, based at Dublin, now 
says that seat sales are back to normal and there are flying full capacity
The success of the low-fare strategy is critically dependent on the maintenance of a low cost base. Ryanair is 
maintaining high margins despite reducing yields through disciplined cost management. Lower costs are the only 
competitive advantage in the short-haul economy sector since air travel is effectively a commodity product. It is 
believed that believe Ryanair will continue to lower costs, which will enable it to persist lowering fares aggressively. 
The Q1 results show average fares fell 7%. At British Airways, despite a new short-haul pricing strategy, average 
yields rose 5% in the quarter.
Since a couple of years, following the European deregulation of commercial aviation, an armada of discount carriers 
is reshaping the local airline landscape, or rather horizon. Ryanair bluntly fought its way into the market with an 
aggressive pricing strategy. At first sight considered impossible, the no-frills trick hit the nerves of the European 
passengers. Even more so, it has basically thrown overboard anything slightly related to catering, which could be 
considered a good thing; given the ""denial of food"" almost airliners serves. Ryanair's no frills strategy does not 
only mean a cut in Cabin crew, but also allows for a faster pre-flight preparation, thereby reducing the time 
grounded as well maintaining low fare.
Research and Markets: European Low Cost Airline Industry Continues To Prosper
Contents of this report include:
- Introduction to Low fair airline Industry Model:
- Low cost Carrier: History
- European Low Cost (no frills) Airline Industry: Highlights
- European Low Cost Airline: Overview
- Brief analysis of key European players
- The rise of low cost airlines in Europe during 2003
- Low fair Airline: Community Attitude
- New Entrants
- Takeovers and Mergers
- Trends and Forecast
- Europe's turmoil
- Future Strategy for Low Cost Flights: 2004
- East Europe vs. West Europe competencies in low cost skies over Europe
- Airline Industry in a Nutshell
- Impact of Low Cost Airlines (Europe)
- Low-Cost (no-frills) Airlines in Europe
- Predictions: Industry Structure
- Low-Cost Airlines: Market Penetration
- Comparison of European Low-Cost Airlines-2000
- Market Developments in Europe
- Market Developments in Europe
- European Low fare Airlines: Market Shares
- Strategic Reshape: Secondary Flag carriers
- Restructuring hurdles
- European Low Cost (No Frills) Airline Market: 1999-2010e
- Company Profile: Ryan Air
- Company Profile: EasyJet
- Ryanair Competitor Analysis Resources and Competencies
- Ryanair vs. EasyJet
Research and Markets: European Low Cost Airline Industry Continues To Prosper
- Ryanair and its competitors: Operational Resources (2002)
- Ryanair and EasyJet Frequency vs. destination
- European Low Cost carrier Market: PEST Analysis
- PORTER Analysis: Ryanair
- SWOT Analysis: Ryanair
- Future and the existing strategy of Ryanair
- Value Chain Analysis: Ryanair
- EasyJet SWOT analysis
- US Low cost no frills Airline Market: Overview
- Asian Low cost no frills Airline Market: Overview
For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c5549
CONTACT: Research and Markets Laura Wood Senior Manager press@researchandmarkets.com Fax: +353 1 
4100 980
http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: October 1, 2004
End of Document
e. Digital Corporation and APS, Inc. Unveil Installed IFE System; International Airlines AEROFLOT and KLM to 
Offer digEplayer 5500
e.Digital Corporation and APS, Inc. Unveil Installed IFE System; International 
Airlines AEROFLOT and KLM to Offer digEplayer 5500
Business Wire
September 27, 2004 Monday
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 733 words
Dateline: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 27, 2004
Body
e.Digital Corporation (OTC:EDIG), a leading innovator of proprietary digital audio and video technology platforms, 
and APS, Inc., a leading innovator in in-flight entertainment systems, successfully unveiled working prototypes of an 
installed version of APS' digEplayer(TM) video-on-demand (VOD) system at last week's 25th Annual Conference 
and Exhibition of the World Airline Entertainment Association (WAEA) in Seattle.
 The new installed in-flight entertainment (IFE) system is expected to be the first independent VOD system, without 
any dependence on a central server. Content can be easily loaded to the system to hard drives with capacity for 
60+ full-length feature films. The system is also expected to include television shows, music and video games.
"We are pleased to be working with APS on this installed MicroOS(TM)-powered version of the digEplayer," 
remarked Atul Anandpura, e.Digital's president and chief executive officer. "Beyond its many other advantages, this 
system alleviates logistics support and will be easy to service and maintain."
 "For cost-conscious regional airlines looking for an embedded solution, we have the answer," said Bill Boyer, 
president of APS. "We received strong interest in this new installed system at the conference from several airlines 
looking for an alternative to the heavy, expensive systems currently on the market. We continue to experience 
growing acceptance of the portable digEplayer 5500(TM), with Ryanair, KLM, AEROFLOT and other airlines 
coming aboard as our newest customers. By offering both a portable and installed version of the digEplayer, we are 
well-positioned to rapidly grow our IFE sales."
 "This WAEA conference was very successful for e.Digital and APS," concluded Anandpura. "In addition to the 
Ryanair, KLM and AEROFLOT orders, we expect further business will result from the meetings held last week in 
Seattle."
 Manufactured by e.Digital Corporation for APS, the digEplayer 5500 features the latest technology licensed from 
e.Digital (MicroOS(TM) and engineering) and DivX (compression).
About e.Digital Corporation: e.Digital Corporation partners with leading original design and equipment 
manufacturers (ODMs/OEMs) licensing, designing and providing manufacturing services for ODM/OEM-branded 
digital video, digital audio and wireless products based on the company's proprietary MicroOS(TM)-enabled 
e. Digital Corporation and APS, Inc. Unveil Installed IFE System; International Airlines AEROFLOT and KLM to 
Offer digEplayer 5500
technology platforms. e.Digital specializes in the delivery and management of open and secure digital content 
through it's personal video, personal audio, automotive, and wireless technology platforms. e.Digital's services 
include the licensing of the company's MicroOS(TM), custom software and hardware development, industrial 
design, and manufacturing services through the company's manufacturing partners. For more information about 
e.Digital and its proprietary technology platforms, please visit the company website at www.edigital.com. 
About APS: APS is a privately held company based in Tacoma, Wash., which specializes in innovative technology 
for the airline industry. The digEplayer 5500(TM) is an example of the industry-changing products offered by APS 
as the company looks into the future of the transportation and leisure industries. For more information about the 
digEplayer 5500(TM), contact APS at (253) 284-4445 or visit www.digeplayer.com. 
 Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform of 1995: All statements made in this 
document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are 
based on the then-current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about the businesses of the 
Company and the industries and markets in which the company operates. Those statements are not guarantees of 
future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that will be difficult to predict. Therefore, actual 
outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. 
More information about potential factors that could affect the Company can be found in its most recent Form 10-K, 
Form 10-Q and other reports and statements filed by e.Digital Corporation with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission ("SEC"). e.Digital Corporation disclaims any intent or obligation to update those forward-looking 
statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by it.
CONTACT: e.Digital Corporation
Robert Putnam, (858) 679-1504
rputnam@edigital.com  
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 28, 2004
End of Document
e. Digital Corporation Announces Ryanair 's Launch of APS' digEPlayer 5500
e.Digital Corporation Announces Ryanair's Launch of APS' digEPlayer 5500
Business Wire
September 22, 2004 Wednesday
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 730 words
Dateline: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 22, 2004
Body
e.Digital Corporation (OTCBB:EDIG) today announced Ryanair, Europe's Number 1 low fare airline, will introduce 
APS' digEPlayer 5500(TM) on five of its Stansted, England based aircraft starting November 1. Subject to 
successful introduction and board approval, Ryanair will gradually roll out the MicroOS(TM)-powered digEplayers 
across its entire 82 aircraft fleet over the winter making in-flight entertainment (IFE) available to all its passengers 
by March 2005.
 "Ryanair's choice of APS' digEplayer is a key endorsement of our personal video technology platform," remarked 
Atul Anandpura, e.Digital's president and chief executive officer. "We are very pleased to be working with APS in 
offering innovative video-on-demand (VOD) systems to the transportation and leisure industries."
"We are thrilled Ryanair has chosen the digEplayer to be their very first in-flight entertainment system," said Bill 
Boyer, chairman and founder of APS. "We know Ryanair looked at every type of IFE system available and chose 
the digEplayer because of it's picture and sound quality, choice of entertainment content, and ease of use for their 
passengers."
 APS' digEplayer 5500 is the world's first completely self-contained, portable VOD entertainment unit 
preprogrammed with movies, television shows, cartoons, videos, and music. Entertainment content for the Ryanair 
units will be provided by Buena Vista, 20th Century Fox, DreamWorks SKG, Warner Brothers and others. Inflight 
Dublin, which has access to movies from every major movie studio in Hollywood and music programming from 
around the world, will also be providing entertainment content.
 Each digEplayer 5500 VOD unit features a 7" LCD screen, user-friendly controls and interface, and superior audio 
and video quality utilizing the latest technology licensed from e.Digital Corporation and DivX.
About e.Digital Corporation: e.Digital Corporation partners with leading original design and equipment 
manufacturers (ODMs/OEMs) licensing, designing and providing manufacturing services for ODM/OEM-branded 
digital video, digital audio and wireless products based on the company's proprietary MicroOS(TM)-enabled 
technology platforms. e.Digital specializes in the delivery and management of open and secure digital content 
through it's personal video, personal audio, automotive, and wireless technology platforms. e.Digital's services 
include the licensing of the company's MicroOS(TM), custom software and hardware development, industrial 
design, and manufacturing services through the company's manufacturing partners. For more information about 
e.Digital and its proprietary technology platforms, please visit the company website at www.edigital.com. 
e. Digital Corporation Announces Ryanair 's Launch of APS' digEPlayer 5500
About APS: APS is a privately held company based in Tacoma, Wash., which specializes in innovative technology 
for the airline industry. The digEplayer 5500(TM) is an example of the industry-changing products offered by APS 
as the company looks into the future of the transportation and leisure industries. For more information about the 
digEplayer 5500(TM), contact APS at (253) 284-4445 or visit www.digeplayer.com. 
 Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform of 1995: All statements made in this 
document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are 
based on the then-current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about the businesses of the 
Company and the industries and markets in which the company operates. Those statements are not guarantees of 
future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that will be difficult to predict. Therefore, actual 
outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. 
More information about potential factors that could affect the Company can be found in its most recent Form 10-K, 
Form 10-Q and other reports and statements filed by e.Digital Corporation with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission ("SEC"). e.Digital Corporation disclaims any intent or obligation to update those forward-looking 
statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by it.
 Editors Note: digEplayer 5500 is the trademark of APS, Inc. MicroOS is the trademark of e.Digital Corporation. All 
other company, product, and service names are the property of their respective owners.
CONTACT: e.Digital Corporation
Robert Putnam, 858-679-1504
rputnam@edigital.com  
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 23, 2004
End of Document
Ryanair Launches In-flight Entertainment System from APS
Ryanair Launches In-flight Entertainment System from APS
Business Wire
September 21, 2004 Tuesday
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 450 words
Dateline: TACOMA, Wash., Sept. 21, 2004
Body
digEplayer 5500(TM) Provides Feature Length Movies, Music and More for Passengers
 APS of Tacoma WA, is pleased to announce that Ryanair, Europe's Number 1 low fare airline has agreed to the 
introduction of in-flight entertainment (IFE) on all its flights, with the acquisition of APS's revolutionary in-flight 
entertainment system. The digEplayer 5500(TM) will be introduced initially on five Stansted, England based aircraft 
starting November 1, and will gradually be rolled out across Ryanair's entire 82 aircraft fleet over the winter making 
IFE available to all passengers by March 2005.
 The digEplayer 5500(TM) is the world's first completely self-contained, portable video on demand entertainment 
unit preprogrammed with movies as well as television shows, cartoons, videos and music choices.
Rolling out the Ryanair in-flight entertainment system in London this morning, Ryanair's Chief Executive, Michael 
O'Leary said, "Ryanair is delighted to be the first low fare airline in Europe to offer all our customers the latest 
Hollywood movies on our new digEplayer In-flight entertainment system. This new technology will allow Ryanair's 
passengers to enjoy the latest in in-flight entertainment, which will further enhance Ryanair's Number One customer 
service package."
 APS's Chairman and Founder, Bill Boyer said, "We are thrilled Ryanair has chosen the digEplayer to be their very 
first in-flight entertainment system." He continued, "we know that Ryanair looked at every type of IFE system 
available and chose the digEplayer because of its picture and sound quality, ease of use for the passengers and a 
choice of content to watch."
 Content will be provided by Buena Vista, 20th Century Fox, DreamWorks SKG, Warner Brothers and more. Inflight 
Dublin will be providing content as well, giving even the most frequent flyers enough programming variety to meet 
their needs. Inflight Dublin has access to movies from every major studio in Hollywood plus music programming 
from around the world.
 Each APS digEplayer 5500(TM) VOD unit is about the same weight and size of a typical portable DVD player. 
Units contain a 40-gigabyte hard drive and utilize the latest technology licensed from e.Digital Corp (O/S and 
engineering) and DivX (compression).
 About APS
Ryanair Launches In-flight Entertainment System from APS
 APS is a privately held company based in Tacoma, Wash., which specializes in innovative technology for the 
airline industry. The digEplayer 5500(TM) is an example of the industry-changing products developed by APS as 
the company looks into the future of the transportation and leisure industries.
 The company will be featuring Ryanair and ten other world airline customers for the digEplayer at the upcoming 
WAEA show on September 20 to 25th.
CONTACT: For APS
Alec's Dad, Inc.
Dan Bean, 425-793-6313
Fax: 425-793-6241
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 22, 2004
End of Document
Aggregate This! Airfare Searching Grows Up…
Aggregate This! Airfare Searching Grows Up…
Business Wire
September 14, 2004 Tuesday
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 531 words
Dateline: BOSTON, Sept. 14, 2004
Body
Online travel has changed with the emergence of aggregators as many sites follow the lead of Cheapflights.co.uk, 
which arrived in 1996. The once empty space is no longer lonely with the company's sister site, U.S.-based 
Cheapflights.com, occupying a leading spot among other travel aggregators such as Sidestep, Mobissimo, Qixo, 
Yahoo's FareChase and new entry Kayak.
 What is an aggregator? Well, according to the American Heritage Dictionary:
 One who aggregates or collects things. A program for watching for new content at user-specified feeds.
This new group of aggregator sites is different from traditional travel sites because these sites don't sell tickets, are 
neutral third parties and offer a more comprehensive selection of bargains. Travelers get a view of the best deals 
available to their destination(s) - with the aggregators' independent view of the marketplace, the sites offer a fresh 
perspective from the often complex and fragmented world of flight prices. On the business end, instead of selling 
travel and gaining a more traditional agency commission or markup, aggregators generally work on a cost per click-
type model.
 But, despite similar missions, aggregators are different from each other e.g. they don't offer all of the same fares or 
content. One asks users to download software, another requires payment in foreign currency, one site charges $20 
just to use it and many don't offer fares from low-cost carriers and specialists with access to the best rates. Also, 
some of these neutral sites offer more services with alternate airport guides, travel links and other information.
 As the trend continues towards the aggregator model, Cheapflights.com has separated itself through the 
pioneering work of Chief Executive David Soskin and Hugo Burge, chief operating officer, and president of U.S. 
operations. Cheapflights.com provides the most comprehensive snapshot of fares, even including low cost carriers 
such as Southwest and JetBlue and European fare savers Ryanair, and easyJet.
 Offering users access to fares from traditional airlines, consolidators and specialists that are unknown to most 
travel searches, Cheapflights.com has shifted the playing field in favor of travelers. Among the site's other 
advantages: telephone numbers for those who don't wish to book online; access to "opaque" U.S. sites Hotwire and 
Priceline; and date ranges for travel, providing greater flexibility.
Aggregate This! Airfare Searching Grows Up…
 The most complete air fare aggregator, Cheapflights.com is simple to use, offers more fares than other bargain 
travel sites and gives travelers 350 departure points and 700 destinations for their traveling pleasure.
 About Cheapflights.com
After Cheapflights Ltd. became a top 10 UK travel site, Cheapflights.com entered the U.S. market in 2003, 
becoming a top 25 site (source: Hitwise). Cheapflights' search engine assembles airline inventory from hundreds of 
consolidators, specialists, other travel sites and low-fare airlines. Cheapflights has been recognized as an online 
travel leader since 1996 and was recently awarded the Regional National Business Award for Growth Strategy of 
the Year in the U.K. For additional information please visit www.Cheapflights.com. 
CONTACT: Cheapflights.com
Pamela Johnston/Randy Williams
Pamela@pjinc.net/Randy@pjinc.net  
212-629-8445
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: September 15, 2004
End of Document
Continental Airlines Wins 2004 OAG Airline of the Year Award; United Airlines Takes Inaugural Award for Best 
Marketing Campaign
Continental Airlines Wins 2004 OAG Airline of the Year Award; United 
Airlines Takes Inaugural Award for Best Marketing Campaign
Business Wire
May 21, 2004 Friday
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 604 words
Dateline: CHICAGO, May 21, 2004
Body
OAG (Official Airline Guides), the world's leading source of independent flight schedule information, announced that 
Continental Airlines was named 2004 Airline of the Year at a ceremony at The Park Lane Hotel in London.
 Continental Airlines is the first US-based carrier to win the title since the awards were established 22 years ago. 
Continental also won the Best Executive/Business Class category and was voted Best Airline based in North 
America in the OAG awards.
The awards, based on votes polled by a worldwide audience of business travelers, attracted an array of senior 
figures from the aviation industry. British television personality, Clive Anderson, presented the awards.
 This year, Best Marketing Campaign was introduced as a new category and was won by United Airlines for their 
"We Are United UK" campaign. LanChile won the award for Best Airline based in Central/South America & 
Caribbean for the second year running.
 OAG also presented a Lifetime Achievement Award to Lord Marshal, Chairman of British Airways. Eddie Bell, 
Chairman of OAG, praised Lord Marshall's great contribution to the airline industry over the last 20 years saying:
 "He has done a spectacular job, in difficult circumstances, for the airline industry."
 The Outstanding Service Award, presented to airline or airport staff who have acted above and beyond the call of 
duty, was awarded to bmi flight attendants Karen Cornelius, Sally Cast and Ellen Davies, whose quick thinking and 
cool heads saved a passenger who suffered a massive heart attack on board a flight from Chicago to Manchester.
 Using bmi's special diagnostic equipment, the flight attendants linked via satellite to doctors in the casualty unit of 
an Arizona hospital and literally helped save passenger Stephen Clarke's life.
 Eddie Bell, commenting on the OAG Awards said:
 "Congratulations to Continental Airlines on winning the OAG Airline of the Year Awards. Continental has 
consistently improved the quality of its service and this fact has been duly recognized by its customers."
Continental Airlines Wins 2004 OAG Airline of the Year Award; United Airlines Takes Inaugural Award for Best 
Marketing Campaign
 Bell continued, "We are especially delighted, this year, to present an OAG Lifetime Achievement Award to Lord 
Marshall from British Airlines. His long standing service and valuable contribution to the industry has been 
magnificent, guiding British Airlines through some turbulent times."
 The Asia Pacific region fared very well, with Singapore Airlines taking home four awards including Best 
International First Class and Best Economy/Coach Class. Cathay Pacific Airways won Best Trans-Pacific Airline, 
and Australian based Virgin Blue won best Low Cost/No Frills Airline, beating incumbent title holder Southwest 
Airlines as well as EasyJet and Ryanair.
 UK flag carrier, British Airways, took home two prestigious awards: Best Airline Based in Western Europe and Best 
Trans-Atlantic Airline.
 CSA Czech Airlines won the Best Airline based in Central/Eastern Europe for the first time.
 Further Information
For the results in full please visit www.oag.com/about_oag/a_of_y 
 All press inquiries/interview requests should be directed to:
 Gina Gesmond
 Slack Barshinger
 312/970-5829
gina.gesmond@slackbarshinger.com  
 Notes to Editors
 -- The awards are based on votes polled from a worldwide audience of business travelers who subscribe to OAG 
print and electronic products. Votes are collected, processed and analysed by an independent research company.
 -- OAG is an independent global content management company specializing in travel and transport. It is a private 
company with 450 staff in Europe, America and Asia, serving business and consumer customers via 3 regional and 
9 local offices.
CONTACT: Slack Barshinger
Gina Gesmond, 312-970-5829
gina.gesmond@slackbarshinger.com  
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: May 22, 2004
End of Document
Web Reservations International Receives Investment from Summit Partners
Web Reservations International Receives Investment from Summit Partners
Business Wire
April 14, 2004 Wednesday
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 685 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland, April 14, 2004
Body
Fast-Growing Provider of Online Reservations Technology For The Budget Traveler Positioned for Long-Term 
Success
 Web Reservations International Limited (WRI), the leading provider of online bookings and reservations technology 
for the budget, independent, and youth travel sector, today announced it has received an investment from Summit 
Partners, a leading international private equity and venture capital firm.
 Through its hostelworld.com and hostels.com brands, WRI offers confirmed online reservations for hostels and 
budget hotels. Additionally, through the recently launched trav.com site, the company offers reservations for various 
budget accommodations in addition to adventure activities, tours, and travel insurance. WRI enables more than 
6500 operators to sell their tourism products online. WRI booking engines also provide reservation technology to 
more than 700 affiliates including Lonelyplanet.com, Ryanair.com, Student Universe, and E-bookers.
WRI has established itself as the world leader in the provision of reservation and booking technology for the budget 
traveler. "Our industry -- youth travelers and operators of budget accommodations -- is moving on-line rapidly. This 
investment from Summit Partners will help us to continue to expand our business and enhance the range of 
services we offer in order to provide greater value to our customers." said Ray Nolan, WRI's CEO and Co-Founder.
 Summit Partners' investment comes at a time of rapid growth for the five-year-old on-line reservations firm. Since 
its inception in 1999, WRI has built a network of over 5000 hostels and budget hotels. Last year the company 
generated more than 3m bed/night bookings and attracted over 30m visitors to its range of proprietary websites, 
affiliates sites and hostel sites.
 "We are delighted to be an investor in WRI and look forward to working closely with Ray Nolan, Tom Kennedy and 
the rest of their strong management team. WRI has developed the winning business model for serving the budget 
and youth traveler segment. The company brings affordable, global distribution capability to this large, internet-
savvy customer segment." said Scott Collins, Partner in Summit's London office, who will become a member of 
WRI's Board of Directors. Summit will join management and other existing private investors as a minority 
shareholder.
 About Web Reservations International
Web Reservations International Receives Investment from Summit Partners
Founded in 1999, Web Reservations International Limited is privately held and headquartered in Dublin, Ireland. 
WRI is the leading provider of online reservations to the budget, independent, and youth travel market. WRI offers 
confirmed online reservations for hostels and budget hotels, as well as reservations for adventure holidays, 
activities and tours for the budget traveler market. WRI also licenses its reservations technology to a wide range of 
affiliate travel websites. For more information, please visit WRI at www.webresint.com. 
 About Summit Partners
 Summit Partners is a leading private equity and venture capital firm. The firm has a capital base of more than $5.5 
billion, with offices in London, Boston, and Palo Alto. Formed in 1984, Summit Partners has provided growth equity, 
recapitalization, and leveraged buyout financing to more than 250 companies, which have completed more than 
100 public offerings and 80 strategic mergers or sales. Notable companies financed by Summit Partners include 
B&W Loudspeakers Ltd. in Worthing, England; Jamba! AG in Berlin, Germany; Newmarket International, Inc. in 
Portsmouth, New Hampshire; and optionsXpress, Inc. in Chicago, Illinois.
Summit Partners seeks outstanding management teams that have self-financed their companies to profitability and 
market leadership. Summit offers equity and subordinated debt financing for transactions from $2 million to $250 
million in a broad range of emerging growth industries, including technology, healthcare, business and financial 
services, and industrial and consumer products. For more information, please visit www.summitpartners.com. 
 The business of Summit Partners in the UK is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
CONTACT: Media Contacts:
For WRI:
Niamh Ni Mhir, +353 1 4980711
niamh@webresint.com  
 or
For Summit Partners in Europe:
River Rouge Communications
Mitchell Prather, +44 (0)20 7283 7261
mprather@riverrouge.co.uk  
 or
For Summit Partners in North America
Warner Communications
Dawn Ringel, 781-449-8456
dawn@warnerpr.com  
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 15, 2004
End of Document
WBT Systems in Both Leader Quadrant Categories for Its LMS and e-Learning Suite
WBT Systems in Both Leader Quadrant Categories for Its LMS and e-
Learning Suite
Business Wire
March 31, 2004 Wednesday
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 722 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland, March 31, 2004
Body
WBT Systems, one of the leading providers of Enterprise e-Learning solutions in the world, announced today that it 
has been listed in the leader quadrant in a new report published by Gartner*, the global technology advisory and 
research firm. Its TopClass e-Learning Suite has also been recognised in the most recent Gartner e-Learning Suite 
Magic Quadrant Report.
 The Gartner report reviewed Learning Management Systems from 25 vendors and placed seven LMSs in the 
leader quadrant. Vendors were evaluated on their execution ability and completeness of vision. In this latest report, 
WBT Systems moves from the Visionary to the Leader quadrant.
According to the report, leaders "demonstrate good scalable product capabilities and features, a strong installed 
base, acceptable financial performance and good distribution. Leaders are doing well today and are prepared for 
the future".
 In reviewing the LMS market, the report also identifies an increased level of LMS procurement in the second half of 
2003 that it believes will continue into 2004. Many enterprises have also begun deploying their LMSs on an 
enterprisewide basis.
 WBT Systems offers a complete e-learning suite and recently added several new modules including Analytics. The 
company's new business sales focus in the United States and Europe is increasingly solutions-driven in areas such 
as regulatory compliance and sales force automation.
 "It is a fantastic achievement to be recognised in both Magic Quadrants Reports" said Declan Kelly, CEO, WBT 
Systems. He added "We believe this report confirms the comprehensive capabilities we now have in our TopClass 
LMS Suite, our successful global expansion programme and the underlying strength of our business going forward. 
Our breadth of LMS, LCMS and related compliance management product functionality are market leading 
capabilities. They now offer our clients tremendous opportunities to drive revenue growth, meet compliance needs 
and roll out our corporate transformation programmes particularly in regulated industries such as the financial 
services, pharmaceutical and manufacturing sectors.
 *Gartner, Inc, 'Magic Quadrant for Learning Management Systems 1H04' J. Lundy, W. Arevolo, 2004.
WBT Systems in Both Leader Quadrant Categories for Its LMS and e-Learning Suite
 About WBT Systems
 WBT Systems is one of the leading providers of Enterprise e-Learning Solutions in the world. Its TopClass e-
Learning Suite(TM) enables the rapid creation, deployment, and management of knowledge delivery across the 
enterprise. WBT's implementation experience spans a variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, 
government, and pharmaceuticals in blue-chip companies such as ABB, AHIMA, Alexander Forbes, Basler 
Insurance, Belgacom, Clinphone, Credit Suisse, Danish Confederation of Trade Unions, Diageo, Dow Chemical, 
Eurocontrol, Husqvarna, Innovatia, Liberty Group, Ryanair, Smith & Nephew, U.S. Department of Defense, 
University of Chicago Hospitals, Valero and Volvo CE.
he Magic Quadrant is copyrighted March 2004 by Gartner, Inc. and
is reused with permission. Gartner's permission to print or reference
its Magic Quadrant should not be deemed to be an endorsement of any
company or product depicted in the quadrant. The Magic Quadrant is
Gartner's opinion and is an analytical representation of a marketplace
at and for a specific time period. It measures vendors against
Gartner-defined criteria for a marketplace. The positioning of vendors
within a Magic Quadrant is based on the complex interplay of many
factors. Gartner does not advise enterprises to select only those
firms in the Leaders segment. In some situations, firms in the
Visionary, Challenger, or Niche Player segments may be the right match
for an enterprise's requirements. Well-informed vendor selection
decisions should rely on more than a Magic Quadrant. Gartner research
is intended to be one of many information sources including other
published information and direct analyst interaction. Gartner
expressly disclaims all warranties, express or implied of fitness of
this research for a particular purpose
   (C) Copyright 2004 The WBT Systems logo and the marks related to
WBT products referenced herein are either trademarks or registered
trademarks of WBT Systems Limited. All other brand and product names
contained herein may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their
respective holders.
   http://www.wbtsystems.com/ 
CONTACT: WBT Systems, Dublin
Susanne Ryan, +353 1417 0102
susanne.ryan@wbtsystems.com  
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: April 1, 2004
End of Document
WBT Systems Positioned in Leader Quadrant in e-Learning Suite Magic Quadrant Report
WBT Systems Positioned in Leader Quadrant in e-Learning Suite Magic 
Quadrant Report
Business Wire
March 23, 2004 Tuesday
Copyright 2004 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 723 words
Dateline: DUBLIN, Ireland, March 23, 2004
Body
Ability to Execute and Completeness of Vision Cited as Key Qualities
 WBT Systems, one of the leading providers of Enterprise e-Learning solutions, announced today that it has been 
listed in the leader quadrant in a new report* published by Gartner, the global technology advisory and research 
firm. Vendors were evaluated on their execution ability and completeness of vision.
 The Gartner report reviewed e-learning suites from 25 vendors. According to the report, vendors in the leader 
quadrant are "doing well and are prepared for the future. They have strong channel partners, a presence in multiple 
geographies, consistent financial performance, broad platform support, good customer support, the most-
comprehensive and -scalable products, and the ability to deliver a comprehensive e-learning suite. Stron vision is a 
reflection of having a solid product strategy combined with the management vision to make e-learning a focused 
initiative".
The report also anticipates an increased level of interest in comprehensive e-learning suites as vendors move away 
from partial suites, the economy recovers, and the demand for compliance and learning software grows.
 The TopClass e-Learning Suite(TM) from WBT Systems is a comprehensive, robust, easily deployed, web-based 
e-Learning platform with over two million users worldwide. Using TopClass, organisations can reach high 
performance and proficiency levels and gain competitive advantage through increased revenues. TopClass provid 
for adaptive, individualised learning paths based on its extremely powerful, open, standards-based, Learning 
Objects architecture.
 "We are delighted to be recognised in this way in such an important report" said Declan Kelly, CEO, WBT Systems. 
"We believe this is confirmation of our product offering, our satisfied customer base, our global expansion 
programme and our continuous investment in learning management platform R&D. We look forward to 
consolidating our leadership position particularly in regulated industries such as the financial services, 
pharmaceutical and manufacturing sectors with the launch of TopClass Compliance, our total solution for such 
industries"
 *Gartner, Inc, 'Magic Quadrant for E-Learning Suites 2004' J. Lundy, W. Arevolo, 2004.
WBT Systems Positioned in Leader Quadrant in e-Learning Suite Magic Quadrant Report
 About WBT Systems
 WBT Systems is one of the leading providers of Enterprise e-Learning Solutions in the world. Its TopClass e-
Learning Suite(TM) enables the rapid creation, deployment, and management of knowledge delivery across the 
enterprise. WBT's implementation experience spans a variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, 
government, and pharmaceuticals in blue-chip companies such as ABB, AHIMA, Alexander Forbes, Basl Insurance, 
Belgacom, Clinphone, Credit Suisse, Danish Confederation of Trade Unions, Diageo, Dow Chemical, Eurocontrol, 
Husqvarna, Innovatia, Liberty Group, Ryanair, Smith & Nephew, U.S. Department of Defense, University of Chicago 
Hospitals, Valero and Volvo CE.
he Magic Quadrant is copyrighted March 2004 by Gartner, Inc. and
is reused with permission. Gartner's permission to print or reference
its Magic Quadrant should not be deemed to be an endorsement of any
company product depicted in the quadrant. The Magic Quadrant is
Gartner's opinion and is an analytical representation of a marketplace
at and for a specific time period. It measures vendors against
Gartner-defined criteria for marketplace. The positioning of vendors
within a Magic Quadrant is based on the complex interplay of many or
factors. Gartner does not advise enterprises to select only those
firms in the Leaders segment. In some situations, firms in the
Visionary, Challenger, or Niche Player segments may be the right match
for an a enterprise's requirements. Well-informed vendor selection
decisions should rely on more than a Magic Quadrant Gartner research
is intended to be one of many information sources including other
published information and direct analyst interaction. Gartner
expressly disclaims all warranties, express or implied of fitness of
this research for a particular purpose.
   (C) Copyright 2004 The WBT Systems logo and the marks related to
WBT products referenced herein are either trademarks or registered
trademarks of WBT Systems Limited. All other brand and product names
contained herei may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their
respective holders.
CONTACT: WBT Systems
Susanne Ryan
+353 1417 0102
susanne.ryan@wbtsystems.com  
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 24, 2004
End of Document
Vivian Lewis Highlights the Following Stocks: AXA , Ryannair, and Schlumberger
Vivian Lewis Highlights the Following Stocks: AXA, Ryannair, and 
Schlumberger
Business Wire
August 7, 2003, Thursday
Copyright 2003 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 796 words
Dateline: CHICAGO, Aug. 7, 2003
Body
Good corporate governance is appreciated all over the world. Vivian Lewis sheds her international spotlight on the 
efforts from other countries to clean up the books, and offers updates on three intriguing foreign companies. Learn 
about AXA (NYSE:AXA), Ryannair (NASDAQ:RYAAY), and Schlumberger Ltd. (NYSE:SLB). Click here for the full 
story exclusively on Zacks.com: http://featuredexpert2bw.zacks.com/ 
Here are the highlights from the Featured Expert column:
Good corporate governance burnishes a company's image. But recent academic studies show that it also burnishes 
a company's stock price.
Giving U.S. shareholders more rights also pays back in a higher share price, according to a study of 1500 U.S. 
companies during the 1990s by Profs. Andrew Metrick (Wharton School) and Paul Gompers (Harvard Business 
School) with grad student Joy Ishii. It was published in The Quarterly Journal of Economics in Feb. 2003. The 
companies were rated 1 to 24 based on their degree of shareholder rights, with a low number marking the most 
shareholder- friendly firms.
Prof. Metrick commented: "as a financial economist, I expected important things like governance were already 
reflected in stock prices, and that we wouldn't see much of a difference. We found out otherwise."
Taking stock…
AXA (NYSE:AXA) consolidated H1 revenues were E37.5 billion, up 3.5% on the basis of comparables, although on 
a reported basis, total revenues were down 6.7% from 2002. Results were impacted by the strength of the Euro 
versus other currencies, sale of AXA subs in Australia, Austria, and Hungary, plus the run-off of AXA RE's U.S. 
activities.
Ryannair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was denied subsidies at Strasbourg airport after a court case. RYAAY has been 
growing capacity at 55%/yr. Its leading European rival, Easyjet, which also operates Internet cafes, has grown only 
13.5% in the same period.
Vivian Lewis Highlights the Following Stocks: AXA , Ryannair, and Schlumberger
Schlumberger Ltd. (NYSE:SLB) second quarter operating profits were hit by an $81 million charge for getting rid of 
euro-denominated debt of 14cents/sh. The big surprise was a strong performance at Sema, which produced $840 
million of SLB's $3.52 billion of revenues, up 16% year-over-year, with profits up 65% to $21 million. Considering 
the flak SLB has taken for its IT venture, this is an impressive showing in a lackluster European software market, 
mostly the result of cost-cutting, and a focus on energy IT.
Read several more of Vivian Lewis and her team's market commentaries, and don't miss out on analysis for many 
other global stocks by clicking: http://featuredexpert3bw.zacks.com/ 
About Zacks Featured Experts
To be a successful investor you need professional advice. Experts who know what they're talking about and can 
help you achieve your financial goals in good markets...and especially in bad ones will help you improve your 
portfolio. That is why Zacks Investment Research has assembled the best investment experts in the business to 
offer their powerful advisory newsletters to you on all the major investment topics: Stocks, Mutual Funds, Bonds, 
Options, Futures etc.
Recommendations from Featured Experts Highlighted in FREE Investment Newsletter
The best way to tap into the powerful advice from these experts is through our free weekly e-mail newsletter, "Profit 
from the Pros". Each week we highlight several Featured Experts in this free e-mail newsletter. Get your free 
subscription to "Profit from the Pros" at: http://www.freeprofit1bw.zacks.com 
About Zacks
Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1981 to compile, analyze, and 
distribute investment research to both institutional and individual investors. The guiding principle behind our work is 
the belief that investment experts, such as brokerage analysts and investment newsletter writers, have superior 
knowledge about how to invest successfully. Our goal is to unlock their profitable insights for our customers. And 
there is no better way to enjoy this investment success, than with a FREE subscription to "Profit from the Pros" 
weekly e-mail newsletter. For your free newsletter, visit http://www.freeprofitbw.zacks.com 
Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an 
investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such 
affiliates.
Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and 
securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or 
sell any security.
CONTACT: Zacks.com
Terry Batey, 312-630-9880 x 307
myzacks@zacks.com  
www.Zacks.com 
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: August 8, 2003
End of Document
Reuters Research at a Glance Report: Companies Reporting - Week Ahead - Week of June 2, 2003
Reuters Research at a Glance Report: Companies Reporting - Week Ahead - 
Week of June 2, 2003
Business Wire
May 30, 2003, Friday
Copyright 2003 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 698 words
Dateline: NEW YORK, May 30, 2003
Body
Reuters, the global information company, issues Reuters Research At A Glance: Companies Reporting - Week 
Ahead.
The following table reflects the earnings and revenue mean estimates for the companies that reported during the 
week of June 2, 2003, sorted alphabetically by company name. For more detailed information go to 
http://www.multexusa.com/mrd_weekly.asp. 
Ticker  Company                                EPS    Revenue    Cons.
                                               Est.     Est.      Rec.
ABS     Albertson's, Inc.                      0.50   8,899.06   3.35
BTH     Blyth, Inc.                            0.35        N/A   1.67
BOBE    Bob Evans Farms, Inc.                  0.48        N/A   2.67
CMVT    Comverse Technology, Inc.             (0.08)    180.46   2.24
CAO     CSK Auto Corporation                   0.17     383.41   2.33
DAKT    Daktronics, Inc.                       0.13      44.62   1.33
DAB     Dave & Buster's, Inc.                  0.22      97.40   1.00
DSGX    Descartes Systems Group               (0.06)     14.15   3.09
DY      Dycom Industries, Inc.                 0.05     130.76   2.40
FNSR    Finisar Corporation                   (0.05)     38.85   2.57
FCEL    FuelCell Energy, Inc.                 (0.42)     11.09   2.86
MATK    Martek Biosciences Corp.               0.09      23.53   1.50
MDZ     MDS Inc.                               0.24     470.80   2.56
MDCI    Medical Action Industries              0.23      30.00   2.00
NSM     National Semiconductor Corpora         0.09     427.85   2.94
OLG     Offshore Logistics, Inc.               0.35     131.50   1.75
PLL     Pall Corporation                       0.30     401.92   2.70
Reuters Research at a Glance Report: Companies Reporting - Week Ahead - Week of June 2, 2003
PTMK    Pathmark Stores                        0.04     981.95   2.33
ZQK     Quiksilver, Inc.                       0.39     256.38   1.89
RYAAY   Ryanair Holdings plc (ADR)             0.33        N/A   1.33
SCHS    School Specialty, Inc.                (0.26)    143.48   1.80
SIGY    Signet Group plc (ADR)                 0.40     545.20   2.00
SFD     Smithfield Foods, Inc.                 0.04   2,057.95   2.11
COO     The Cooper Companies                   0.48      97.94   1.20
TOM     Tommy Hilfiger Corporation             0.28     472.21   3.20
ULCM    Ulticom, Inc.                          0.02       8.41   2.29
UNFI    United Natural Foods,Inc.              0.31     364.42   1.60
VRNT    Verint Systems Inc.                    0.13      42.61   2.80
VOL     Volt Information Sciences, Inc         0.00     383.30   3.00
WIX     Whitman Education Group                0.14      28.20   2.00
Estimates data compiled on 05-29-2003 11:13 PM
(C) 2003 Reuters Research Inc. All rights reserved. Copying and redistribution prohibited.
Consensus Recommendations:
A 1 - 5 standardized scale is applied whereby qualitative opinions (as provided by brokers) are translated into point 
values with an equivalent opinion:
1 = Strong Buy; 2 = Buy; 3 = Hold; 4 = Under Perform; 5 = Sell; No Opinion (where applicable)
Consensus recommendations are derived from the detailed recommendation scores listed above and are 
expressed as a mean.
The translation of the average numeric point value to a qualitative opinion is done according to the ranges 
described below:
Less than or equal to 1.5 = Strong Buy Less than or equal to 2.5 but more than 1.5 = Buy Less than or equal to 3.5 
but more than 2.5 = Hold Less than or equal to 4.5 but more than 3.5 = Under Perform More than 4.5 = Sell
About Reuters
Reuters (www.about.reuters.com), the global information company, provides indispensable information tailored for 
professionals in the financial services, media and corporate markets. Our information is trusted and drives decision 
making across the globe based on our reputation for speed, accuracy and independence. We have over 16,000 
staff in 94 countries, including some 2,400 editorial staff in 197 bureaux serving approximately 130 countries, 
making Reuters the world's largest international multimedia news agency. In 2002, the Reuters Group had 
revenues of GBP3.6 billion.
Reuters and the sphere logo are the trademarks of the Reuters group of companies.
An 
Earnings 
Season 
logo 
is 
available 
to 
download 
at: 
http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-
bin/photo.cgi?pw.multex/multex. 
CONTACT: Reuters Research Inc., New York
Samantha Topping, 646/576-5584
samantha.topping@reuters.com  
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Reuters Research at a Glance Report: Companies Reporting - Week Ahead - Week of June 2, 2003
Load-Date: May 31, 2003
End of Document
Zacks Issues Buy Recommendations on the Following 6 Stocks: Aetna , RenaissanceRe , Ryanair , Quest 
Diagnostics , Sherwin-Williams and Dreyer's
Zacks Issues Buy Recommendations on the Following 6 Stocks: Aetna, 
RenaissanceRe, Ryanair, Quest Diagnostics, Sherwin-Williams and Dreyer's
Business Wire
March 28, 2003, Friday
Copyright 2003 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1699 words
Dateline: CHICAGO, March 28, 2003
Body
Zacks.com releases another list of stocks that are currently members of the coveted Zacks #1 Ranked list which 
has produced an average annual return of +33.6% since 1988 and has gained +13.3% annually since 2000 as the 
markets have been tumbling down. Among the #1 ranked stocks today we highlight the following companies: Aetna 
Inc. (NYSE:AET), RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd. (NYSE:RNR) and Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Further 
they announced #2 Rankings (Buy) on two other widely held stocks: Quest Diagnostics Inc. (NYSE:DGX), Sherwin-
Williams Company (NYSE:SHW), and Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream, Inc. (NASDAQ:DRYR). To see the full Zacks #1 
Ranked list or the rank for any other stock then visit. http://www.zacksrank1bw.zacks.com 
Here is a synopsis of why these stocks have a Zacks Rank of 1 (Strong Buy). Note that a #1 Strong Buy rating is 
applied to 5% of all the stocks we rank:
Aetna Inc. (NYSE:AET) is a health benefits company whose business operations are conducted in the Health Care, 
Group Insurance and Large Case Pensions segments. The company ended a much-improved year with fourth 
quarter 2002 earnings of 77 cents per share, excluding all items, which easily surpassed Wall Street's expectations 
by almost 20 cents. It was able to surpass analyst expectations in every quarter of the year. AET attributed the 
better performance in 2002 to a seven-point reduction in the medical cost ratio, and lower administration costs. The 
company plans to continue its winning ways with 2003 and will announce first quarter numbers on April 24th. With 
an optimistic outlook for the future and a solid foundation in the past, AET may be able to help insure the health of 
your portfolio.
RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd. (NYSE:RNR) provides property catastrophe reinsurance coverage to insurers and 
reinsurers worldwide, primarily on an excess of loss basis. RNR capped off an impressive year with an equally 
impressive fourth quarter performance, as operating earnings jumped to $1.49 per share from 69 cents in the year-
ago period. That was also more than enough to eclipse Wall Street's predictions. Estimates for this year have 
improved by almost 50 cents in the past month. Recently the company announced that they registered to sell up to 
$200 million in mixed securities from time to time combined with $364.25 million of previously registered but unsold 
securities for a maximum offering of up to $564.25 million. The net proceeds from the sale of securities will be used 
for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general purposes, the filing said. This working 
capital may be just what this insurer needs for a healthy 2003.
Zacks Issues Buy Recommendations on the Following 6 Stocks: Aetna , RenaissanceRe , Ryanair , Quest 
Diagnostics , Sherwin-Williams and Dreyer's
Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) provides airline services for passengers for point-to-point trips between 
Ireland and the United Kingdom with over 100 flights a day. They operate a fleet of approximately 13 Boeing 737-
200A jet aircrafts. The booming carrier said its planes had been 86% full in the three months to end-December, up 
from 79% a year earlier, while passenger traffic for the period had rocketed by 46% to 3.9 million. Revenues also 
rose 37% to 185.90 million euros while earnings per share were up 44% to 5.72 cents. The positive trend continued 
as RYAAY announced that in February, earned seats were 1,292,057 versus 886,320 the year before. Ryanair's 
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said beginning May 1st RYAAY will add 7 new flights from London, which will add 
105 flights per week to the company's network, and will bring Ryanair up to 115 routes across 16 countries. O'Leary 
added that the airline expects to carry up to 24 million passengers across the U.K. and Europe over the coming 
year. Solid financials is one important reason analysts are flying high on Ryanair.
Here is a synopsis of why these stocks have a Zacks Rank of 2 (Buy). Note that a #2 Buy rating is applied to 15% 
of all the stocks we rank:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. (NYSE:DGX) is one of the largest clinical laboratory testing companies in the U.S. Last 
month DGX announced updated guidance for its 2003 financial performance to reflect the acquisition of Unilab 
Corporation (NASDAQ:ULAB) and the impact of severe winter weather. Quest Diagnostics reaffirmed its previous 
guidance for full-year 2003 earnings per diluted share between $4.00 and $4.20, before the impact of Unilab. The 
acquisition of Unilab is expected to add approximately 10 cents per diluted share to Quest Diagnostics' 2003 
earnings before anticipated charges related to the transaction. Following completion of the integration, which is 
expected to occur within two years, the transaction is expected to generate annual synergies of $25 million to $30 
million. Since this announcement, DGX's share price has been headed in the right direction and investors on a 
quest for profits seem satisfied with recent results.
Sherwin-Williams Company (NYSE:SHW) is engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of coatings and 
related products. SHW's net income increased +25.6% in the fourth quarter of 2002 to $57.1 million from $45.4 
million in last year's fourth quarter. For the year 2002, income before the cumulative effect of change in accounting 
principle increased +18.1% to $310.7 million from $263.2 million last year. Fourth quarter diluted net income per 
common share increased +31.0% to 38 cents per share from 29 cents per share in 2001. Even with rough winter 
weather SHW recently reaffirmed 2003 full year earnings and sales guidance. Annual sales for 2003 are expected 
to be up 3.0% to 5.0% over 2002. With annual sales at that level, diluted net income per common share for 2003 is 
anticipated to be within the range of$2.17 to $2.29 per share. This helped quiet some analyst's fears and has been 
a healthy boost to its share price.
Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream, Inc. (NASDAQ:DRYR) is a major producer of ice cream and other frozen dessert 
products. Some of its most popular brands names include Dreyer's, Edy's and Godiva. In February, Dreyer's 
announced that the company earned $5,730,000, or 15 cents per diluted common share, in the fourth quarter 
compared with net income of $172,000, or 0 cents per diluted common share, in the same period of 2001. For the 
fiscal year ended December 28, 2002, Dreyer's earned 77 cents per diluted common share, compared with 24 
cents per diluted common share in 2001. The Dreyer's family will get a little bigger possibly as soon as mid June, as 
DRYR announced that its stockholders voted overwhelmingly to approve the Agreement and Plan of Merger 
between Dreyer's, Nestle Ice Cream Company, LLC (NICC), and Nestle Holdings, Inc. (Nestle) pursuant to which 
Nestle's U.S. frozen dessert business would be combined with that of Dreyer's. This looks to be a sweet deal for 
both companies and could be quite profitable for investors going forward.
To truly take advantage of the Zacks Rank, you need to first understand how it works. That's why we created the 
free special report; "Zacks Rank Guide: Harnessing the Power of Earnings Estimate Revisions." Download your 
free copy now to prosper in the years to come. http://freezrguideprbw1.zacks.com 
About the Zacks Rank
For over 15 years the Zacks Rank has proven that "Earnings estimate revisions are the most powerful force 
impacting stock prices." Since 1988 the #1 Ranked stocks have generated an average annual return of +33.6% 
Zacks Issues Buy Recommendations on the Following 6 Stocks: Aetna , RenaissanceRe , Ryanair , Quest 
Diagnostics , Sherwin-Williams and Dreyer's
compared to the (a)S&P 500 return of only +11.3%. Plus this exclusive stock list has generated average gains of 
+13.3% during the last 3 years; a substantial return compared to the large losses suffered by most investors during 
that time frame. Also note that the Zacks Rank system has just as many Strong Sell recommendations (Rank #5) as 
Strong Buy recommendations (Rank #1). And since 1988 the S&P 500 has outperformed the Zacks #5 Ranked 
stocks by 166.7% annually (11.3% vs. 4.2% respectively). This is a healthy change from traditional Wall Street 
Brokerage firms who rarely give stocks Sell ratings even as the share price and earnings forecast tumble. Thus, the 
Zacks Rank system can truly be used to effectively manage the trading in your portfolio.
For continuous coverage of Zacks #1 Ranked stocks, then get your free subscription to "Profit from the Pros" e-mail 
newsletter 
where 
we 
highlight 
#1 
Ranked 
stocks 
poised 
to 
outperform 
the 
market. 
http://www.zacksrank2bw.zacks.com/ 
The Zacks Rank, and all of its recommendations, is created by Zacks & Co., member NASD. Zacks.com displays 
the Zacks Rank with permission from Zacks & Co. on its web site for individual investors.
About Zacks
Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1981 to compile, analyze, and 
distribute investment research to both institutional and individual investors. The guiding principle behind our work is 
the belief that investment experts, such as brokerage analysts and investment newsletter writers, have superior 
knowledge about how to invest successfully. Our goal is to unlock their profitable insights for our customers. And 
there is no better way to enjoy this investment success, than with a FREE subscription to "Profit from the Pros" 
weekly e-mail newsletter. For your free newsletter, visit http://www.freeprofit1bw.zacks.com 
Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an 
investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such 
affiliates.
(a) The S&P 500 Index ("S&P 500") is a well-known, unmanaged index of the prices of 500 large-company common 
stocks selected by Standard & Poor's. The S&P 500 includes the reinvestment of all dividends, no transaction 
costs, and represents the gross returns before management fees.
Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and 
securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or 
sell any security.
CONTACT: Zacks.com
Terry Batey, 312/630-9880 ext. 307
feedback@zacks.com  
www.Zacks.com 
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: March 29, 2003
End of Document
Zacks Issues Buy Recommendations On the Following 4 Stocks: Cumulus Media , Mid Atlantic Medical 
Services , Ryanair Holdings and Maxtor
Zacks Issues Buy Recommendations On the Following 4 Stocks: Cumulus 
Media, Mid Atlantic Medical Services, Ryanair Holdings and Maxtor
Business Wire
February 25, 2003, Tuesday
Copyright 2003 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 1359 words
Dateline: CHICAGO, Feb. 25, 2003
Body
Zacks.com releases another list of stocks that are currently members of the coveted Zacks #1 Ranked list which 
has produced an average annual return of 34% since inception in 1980 and is up +11.9% through July 1, 2002. 
Among the #1 ranked stocks today we highlight the following companies: Cumulus Media Inc. (NASDAQ:CMLS) 
and Mid Atlantic Medical Services, Inc. (NYSE:MME). Further they announced #2 Rankings (Buy) on two other 
widely held stocks: Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) and Maxtor Corporation (NYSE:MXO). To see the full 
Zacks #1 Ranked list or the rank for any other stock then visit. http://www.zacksrank1bw.zacks.com 
Here is a synopsis of why these stocks have a Zacks Rank of 1 (Strong Buy). Note that a #1 Strong Buy rating is 
applied to 5% of all the stocks we rank:
Cumulus Media Inc. (NASDAQ:CMLS) is a radio broadcasting company focused on the acquisition, operation and 
development of radio stations in mid-size U.S. markets. In the company's fourth quarter, CMLS significantly 
narrowed its earnings per share loss to 3 cents, which slightly improved upon Wall Street's expectations but was 
much better than the year-ago loss of 48 cents. Furthermore, on a pro forma basis, revenues increased by +9%, 
which was more than the company was expecting. The quarter also saw CMLS' ninth consecutive quarter of 
EBITDA growth. Estimates for this year and next have shown some improvement over the past seven trading days. 
If CMLS can continue to put together strong performances, then investors should have good reception to tune in 
some solid returns in the future.
Mid Atlantic Medical Services, Inc. (NYSE:MME) is a holding company for subsidiaries active in managed health 
care and other life and health insurance related activities. MME capped off a successful year by posting fourth 
quarter earnings per share that easily exceeded its year-ago performance while also surpassing what Wall Street 
was predicting. Furthermore, the company experienced a +28.6% rise in health premiums during the quarter to 
approximately $589 million. MME attributed its strong performance in 2002 to its diverse product offering along with 
its disciplined pricing and solid service. Analysts have given the company's earnings estimates for this year and 
next healthy increases over the past month. MME has an excellent record of surpassing Wall Street's earnings 
expectations over the past several quarters, which bodes well for the company and its shareholders moving 
forward. By delivering "strong, consistent growth," MME appears to be on the right path for additional success 
Zacks Issues Buy Recommendations On the Following 4 Stocks: Cumulus Media , Mid Atlantic Medical 
Services , Ryanair Holdings and Maxtor
moving forward. Portfolios in need for a little recuperation may want to heal their wounds by taking in a piece of 
MME.
Here is a synopsis of why these stocks have a Zacks Rank of 2 (Buy). Note that a #2 Buy rating is applied to 15% 
of all the stocks we rank:
Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) provides airline services for passengers for point-to-point trips between 
Ireland and the United Kingdom with over 100 flights a day. They operate a fleet of approximately 13 Boeing 737-
200A jet aircrafts. RYAAY beat forecasts as it said third-quarter after-tax profits had risen +50% to 43.20 million 
euros ($46.33 million) and predicted soaring passenger growth. The booming carrier said its planes had been 86% 
full in the three months to end-December, up from 79% a year earlier, while passenger traffic for the period had 
rocketed by 46% to 3.9 million. Revenues also rose 37% to 185.90 million euros while earnings per share were up 
44% to 5.72 cents. Chief Executive Michael O'Leary raised his guidance for full-year net profit to 235 million euros, 
from 230 million seen previously. Solid financials is one important reason analysts are flying high on Ryanair.
Maxtor Corporation (NYSE:MXO) develops, manufactures and markets hard disk drive storage products for desktop 
computer systems. The company returned to profitability in the fourth quarter of 2002 by posting pro forma net 
income of 15 cents a share. The result marked a complete reversal from an equal loss last year while also eclipsing 
what an average of analysts were expecting. MXO has a good record of meeting or beating Wall Street 
expectations, but this quarter's surprise of +25% was the most energetic in some time. Revenue dipped slightly to 
$1.038 billion from $1.071 billion. MXO attributed the quarter's success to solid execution on initiatives established 
in early 2002 along with a favorable demand environment. The quarter saw shipments of server drives grow to 
578,000 units, while operating expenses continued to decline. The company said it has many opportunities to grow 
and improve profitability, as it expands its product lines, enhances manufacturing efficiencies, and extends its 
technology leadership. MXO appears to have good momentum heading forward and may be secure place to store 
some profits.
To truly take advantage of the Zacks Rank, you need to first understand how it works. That's why we created the 
free special report; "Zacks Rank Guide: Harnessing the Power of Earnings Estimate Revisions." Download your 
free copy now to prosper in the years to come. http://freezrguideprbw1.zacks.com 
About the Zacks Rank
For over 20 years the Zacks Rank has proven that "Earnings estimate revisions are the most powerful force 
impacting stock prices." Since inception in 1980 #1 Ranked stocks have generated an average annual return of 
+34.0% compared to the (1)S&P 500 return of only +14.7%. Plus this exclusive stock list has gained +11.9% 
through 7/1/02, +18.7 in 2001 and +16.2% in 2000; a substantial return compared to the large losses suffered by 
most investors during that time frame. Also note that the Zacks Rank system has just as many Strong Sell 
recommendations (Rank #5) as Strong Buy recommendations (Rank #1). And since 1980 the #5 Ranked Strong 
Sells have under performed the S&P 500 by 89.8% annually. This is a healthy change from traditional Wall Street 
Brokerage firms who only give stocks Sell ratings less than 1% of the time. Thus, the Zacks Rank system can truly 
be used to effectively manage the trading in your portfolio.
For continuous coverage of Zacks #1 Ranked stocks, then get your free subscription to "Profit from the Pros" e-mail 
newsletter 
where 
we 
highlight 
#1 
Ranked 
stocks 
poised 
to 
outperform 
the 
market. 
http://www.zacksrank2bw.zacks.com/ 
The Zacks Rank, and all of its recommendations, is created by Zacks & Co., member NASD. Zacks.com displays 
the Zacks Rank with permission from Zacks & Co. on its web site for individual investors.
About Zacks
Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1981 to compile, analyze, and 
distribute investment research to both institutional and individual investors. The guiding principle behind our work is 
Zacks Issues Buy Recommendations On the Following 4 Stocks: Cumulus Media , Mid Atlantic Medical 
Services , Ryanair Holdings and Maxtor
the belief that investment experts, such as brokerage analysts and investment newsletter writers, have superior 
knowledge about how to invest successfully. Our goal is to unlock their profitable insights for our customers. And 
there is no better way to enjoy this investment success, than with a FREE subscription to "Profit from the Pros" 
weekly e-mail newsletter. For your free newsletter, visit http://www.freeprofit1bw.zacks.com 
Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an 
investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such 
affiliates.
(1) The S&P 500 Index ("S&P 500") is a well-known, unmanaged index of the prices of 500 large-company common 
stocks selected by Standard & Poor's. The S&P 500 includes the reinvestment of all dividends, no transaction 
costs, and represents the gross returns before management fees.
Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and 
securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or 
sell any security.
CONTACT: Zacks.com
Terry Batey, 312/630-9880 x 307
feedback@zacks.com  
www.Zacks.com 
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 26, 2003
End of Document
Navitaire 's Open Skies Host Reservation Services Doubles Customer Base in 2002
Navitaire's Open Skies Host Reservation Services Doubles Customer Base 
in 2002
Business Wire
January 31, 2003, Friday
Copyright 2003 Business Wire, Inc.
Length: 572 words
Dateline: MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 31, 2003
Body
Navitaire, the leading provider of hosted services to low-fare airlines, has doubled the customer base for its Open 
Skies host reservation services in less than a year, from 12 customers last February to 25 customers by the end of 
December 2002.
The 13 new customers include a variety of rapidly growing airlines, including AirAsia, bmibaby, Germanwings, 
Hapag Lloyd and Hapag Lloyd Express, which join Ryanair, jetBlue, Virgin Express, Virgin Blue and eight other 
carriers that have been using Navitaire's Open Skies host reservation services for several years.
In addition to the significant expansion of Navitaire's host reservations customer base, two long-standing Open 
Skies customers agreed to multi-year contract renewals in 2002, and 10 new Navitaire customers contracted for 
both host reservations systems and revenue management systems.
"We're very pleased that, despite a tough year for the industry, we were able to double our customer base for Open 
Skies," said John Dabkowski, Navitaire's senior vice president of Sales and Marketing. "This tremendous growth is 
due to our continued ability to deliver consistent value to our customers, who include many of the world's fastest-
growing and most profitable airlines. We believe that our success is due to our ability to help airlines reduce the 
cost of distribution, reservations and customer service operations."
Another Navitaire success in 2002 was winning an Airline Transport and Transportation Information Systems 
(ATTIS) award, which recognizes IT excellence in the air transport and travel industry. Navitaire received the ATTIS 
award for Best Web Transaction Provider for its Open Skies Skylights(TM) e-Suite Internet booking engine, which 
was cited for its ability to deliver low-cost, easy-to-use, self-service reservations. With Open Skies customers 
relying on the Internet for as much as 96 percent of their bookings, Skylights provides airlines with an efficient and 
effective reservations solution. Navitaire estimates that its customers saved US $98 million in annual distribution 
costs last year through their extensive use of Skylights.
Navitaire plans to enhance the offerings of its Open Skies reservation system in 2003 with new features focused on 
expanding cost-effective booking options for airlines.
About Navitaire
Navitaire 's Open Skies Host Reservation Services Doubles Customer Base in 2002
A pioneer in the ASP industry, Navitaire, Inc. has been providing industry-leading reservations, direct distribution, 
revenue protection, decision support and passenger revenue accounting technology to airlines since 1993. Through 
its ASP delivery model, Navitaire offers industry leading applications with reduced implementation time and risk, 
ensured operational reliability, and cost-effective fee structures. A wide array of Navitaire products, including 
revenue management systems and integrated ticketless/e-commerce solutions, provide airlines throughout the 
world with industry operating system solutions that allow them to grow more profitably.
Navitaire's customer base consists of more than 40 airlines worldwide, including 10 of the world's 25 largest 
airlines, as well as a growing base of low-fare and midsize airlines. An affiliate company of Accenture, Navitaire is 
headquartered in Minneapolis, with offices in Salt Lake City, Sydney, Manila, and Prague.
CONTACT: Navitaire Inc.
Susan Adelman, 612/317-7284
susan.adelman@navitaire.com  
URL: http://www.businesswire.com
Load-Date: February 1, 2003
End of Document
