On The Beach’s successful £2m dispute with Ryanair ‘sends an important message on how refunds should be 
handled’
On The Beach’s successful £2m dispute with Ryanair ‘sends an important 
message on how refunds should be handled’
Cityam.com
October 31, 2023 Tuesday 1:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 452 words
Byline: Maria Ward-Brennan
Highlight: In a ruling today, High Court judge Nigel Cooper KC calculated OTB group's claim to have succeeded 
over £2m.
Body
Online travel agent On the Beach has successfully sued Ryanair millions over failures to refund package holidays 
from COVID-19 times. 
In a ruling today, High Court judge Nigel Cooper KC calculated OTB group’s claim to have succeeded over £2m. 
On the Beach, who were joined by Sunshine.co.uk and Classic Package holidays, argued the budget carrier should 
pay for refunds offered by the group to passengers whose flights were disrupted over the pandemic.
The claimants instructed City firm Fox Williams to file a claim in October 2021, shortly after OTB targeted the Irish 
airline with a competition lawsuit. The judge today upheld the claimant’s summary judgment but dismissed all of 
Ryanair’s notable applications in the case.
Shaun Morton, chief executive of On the Beach, welcomed the “decision to uphold our application for Ryanair to 
pay back what was owed”.
“Today’s outcome sends an important message on how refunds should be handled and emphasises the industry’s 
responsibility to holidaymakers,” Morton said.
Read more
On the Beach Group share price tumbles after big marketing spend
The ruling comes amid a long-running feud between European online booking agents and Ryanair, who have been 
embroiled in numerous verbal and legal spats over third-party bookings.
On The Beach’s successful £2m dispute with Ryanair ‘sends an important message on how refunds should be 
handled’
Low-cost carriers prefer when customers book direct as they can offer add-ons such as extra luggage space.  They 
argue direct communication with passengers is necessary to handle customer complaints and issues during the 
booking process.
OTA’s claim airlines are engaging in aggressive tactics aimed at removing consumer choice from the market, so 
they can rake in more cash.
Last week, On the Beach wrote to the UK competition regulator, the aviation watchdog and a host of senior 
transport ministers, urging them to take action and naming Ryanair as one of the worst offenders.
The submission called for the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) to begin a full market review into budget 
airline practices and create a code of conduct for the groups to work together in future. 
Responding to today’s ruling, Ryanair DAC chief executive Dara Brady said: “Even pirate OTAs must demonstrate 
that they have refunded customers before any monies are released to OTAs by airlines.”
“This has been Ryanair’s long-standing practice, following numerous cases of refunds paid by airlines to OTAs 
during Covid not being passed on to passengers. Passengers whose bookings were made by OTA bots can avail 
directly of Ryanair’s enhanced-security refund procedures to ensure they receive any applicable refunds directly, 
rather than via these OTA digital pirates.”
Read more
Ryanair’s O’Leary launches tirade against NATS after ’tissue of lies’ on air traffic failure
Load-Date: October 31, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair slashes 960 flights due to Middle East conflict as passenger numbers fall
Ryanair slashes 960 flights due to Middle East conflict as passenger 
numbers fall
Cityam.com
December 4, 2023 Monday 3:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 240 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair cancelled 960 flights in November due to the conflict between Israel and Hamas, it has been 
revealed. In a report, the low-cost airline said it flew 11.7m passengers in November, a four per cent increase on 
the prior year and taking its 2023 total to 180.8m. The number marks a significant dip on October’s [...]
Body
Ryanair cancelled 960 flights in November due to the conflict between Israel and Hamas, it has been revealed.
In a report, the low-cost airline said it flew 11.7m passengers in November, a four per cent increase on the prior 
year and taking its 2023 total to 180.8m.
The number marks a significant dip on October’s figure of 17.1m. Load factor, the proportion of seats filled by 
passengers, sat at 92 per cent.
Airline shares dipped after Hamas invaded Israel last month, amid investor concern over route offerings and a spike 
in oil prices. The Irish carrier already cancelled over 870 flights in October due to the violence in the Middle East.
Ryanair has been one of the few major carriers to see shares continue rising in the quieter autumn months, 
following this summer’s record season of travel.
Budget rival Wizz Air reported a more measured fall in November’s passenger numbers this morning, carrying 4.8m 
passengers, down from 5.4m the priot month.
The Hungarian-based firm said it had decided to suspend operations in Israel until early January 2024, adding that 
it continues to “monitor the situation on the ground closely and stands ready to redeploy capacity should conditions 
stabilize.”
Chief executive József Váradi toldCity A.M. in early November that the war had created a “ripple effect” on demand 
across neighbouring countries in the region.
Ryanair slashes 960 flights due to Middle East conflict as passenger numbers fall
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers dip as Middle East conflict axes routes
Load-Date: December 4, 2023
End of Document
On the Beach calls for CMA to stop low cost carriers’ ‘aggressive tactics’ as long-running feud heats up
On the Beach calls for CMA to stop low cost carriers’ ‘aggressive tactics’ as 
long-running feud heats up
Cityam.com
October 24, 2023 Tuesday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 654 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: A long-running feud between online travel groups and low-cost carriers is heating up, after On the Beach 
called on the CMA to step in.
Body
A long-running feud between online travel groups and low-cost carriers is heating up after holiday retailer On the 
Beach Group called on the UK competition regulator to step in to protect consumers.
In a report sent to the Competition Markets Authority (CMA), the aviation watchdog and a host of senior transport 
ministers, On the Beach slammed the “aggressive tactics” used by low-cost carriers to “remove consumer choice 
from the market”.
Online travel agents (OTAs) have — for years — clashed with budget airlines, who prefer when customers book 
direct as they can sell them add-ons such as extra luggage space. 
Ryanair has been particularly vocal in its criticism of third party bookings, which it argues prevents it from dealing 
with customers appropriately. 
The report, which was shared with transport secretary Mark Harper, claims carriers are mistreating OTA customers 
by sending communications which aim to frighten them into thinking their booking isn’t real or lawful. 
It noted isolated cases of airlines removing customers from overbooked flights ahead of package customers. 
The submission calls for the CMA to launch a full market review into carriers’ practices and create a code of 
conduct for the groups to operate together.
On the Beach said that the tactics employed by budget carriers would reduce competition, adhere to regulations 
and bump up holiday prices. 
Read more
On the Beach calls for CMA to stop low cost carriers’ ‘aggressive tactics’ as long-running feud heats up
Online travel agents urge government to investigate Ryanair over ‘invasive’ booking system
These include “strategically reducing seat-only availability” for OTAs to encourage more direct bookings, making it 
more difficult for OTAs to contact consumers with key information, and charging OTAs excessive booking fees, 
which drives up seat prices.
The report claims Ryanair has taken steps including blocking third-party bookings and rejecting credit cards and 
accuses the airline of “reputational attacks” in public campaigns, designed to deter consumers from booking with 
OTAs.
Tensions between OTAs, Ryanair and other airlines have been growing throughout the year, with shots fired from 
both sides and ongoing battles playing out in court.
In August, a number of European companies including Booking.com and Skyscanner wrote to the UK government 
to highlight Ryanair’s “invasive verification procedure” for passengers who book via third parties, which they claimed 
are in breach of data protection laws.
Ryanair has previously described OTAs as “screenscrapers” and “internet pirates” and argued the groups mislead 
passengers “to believe they are getting the cheapest price… by falsely advertising lower fares” than airlines. 
Chief executive officer of On the Beach, Shaun Morton, said: “Low cost airlines are taking advantage of their market 
power and using anti-competitive behaviours, scaremongering tactics and smear campaigns to remove consumer 
choice, degrade the customer experience and purposefully make life difficult for online travel agents.”
                     “My hope is that the CMA will act quickly to safeguard consumer choice because if not, competition 
will reduce, adherence to regulations and customer service will deteriorate further, and holiday prices will only 
increase.” Shaun Morton, chief executive officer, On the Beach                    
In a statement toCity A.M. Ryanair refuted all allegations made by On the Beach. 
The airline said that OTAs “miss-sell our flights and ancillary services with hidden mark-ups while providing 
incorrect customer contact information and payment details.”
On allegations that it was preventing OTAs from booking seats for their customers, it responded “This is false – 
OTAs withold customer payment details from Ryanair and make payments to us with virtual single-use credit cards 
to prevent customers from seeing the real cost of our flights…. as well as to intercept and control refund payments 
we make to customers.”
Wizz Air and Easyjet did not respond to a request for comment. 
Load-Date: October 24, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair : UK passengers face ‘unfair burden’ from carbon clampdown
Ryanair: UK passengers face ‘unfair burden’ from carbon clampdown
Cityam.com
October 10, 2023 Tuesday 12:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 590 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Passengers risk bearing the brunt of higher prices amid an “unfair” government clampdown on carbon 
emissions, Ryanair has warned.
Body
Passengers risk bearing the brunt of higher prices amid the government’s “unfair” clampdown on carbon emissions, 
Ryanair, one of the UK’s leading airline operators, has warned.
The typically combative budget airline giant toldCity A.M. that newly introduced costs for carriers represent “an 
unfair burden for UK consumers who have no alternative means of connectivity.” 
“While Ryanair supports the goal of net zero emissions, achieving this poses unique challenges for the UK whose 
citizens and economy are dependent on air connectivity with the EU,” a spokesperson said. 
Ryanair’s stinging criticism follows the government’s decision to cut carbon allowances on Thursday, which has 
piled further pressure on aviation to go green.
Carbon allowances are effectively permission slips from the government for emissions, with energy intensive 
sectors such as aviation, manufacturing and power required to pay for every unit of carbon they emit.
Last week, the government unveiled  a 12.4 per cent cut in available allowances next year: dropping from 79m to 
69m — their lowest-ever level.
It is now targeting a 45 per cent reduction by 2027 as part of its Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), and an over 80 
per cent decline by the end of the decade.
Ryanair argued that short-haul passengers were paying an “unfair burden” for decarbonising aviation, as long-haul 
airlines are currently exempt from the scheme.
Airlines UK, the trade body representing the country’s carriers, estimated that carriers would be forced to cough up 
an additional £4bn into the UK ETS by the end of the decade. 
Ryanair : UK passengers face ‘unfair burden’ from carbon clampdown
“It is vital for the UK’s competitiveness as a global aviation hub that this additional burden is balanced by steps that 
drive net zero solutions,” it said, giving the example of incentivising home production of sustainable aviation fuels 
(SAF), as is done in rival markets such as the EU and US.
Karen Dee, chief executive of industry trade body the Airport Operators Association, fears the government had a 
difficult balancing act — between reaching the country’s climate goals and not undermining investor confidence in 
the UK.
She argued the sector was heavily investing in greener solutions such as cleaner planes, sustainable aviation fuel 
and renewable electricity for operations.
“We must not make the UK an uncompetitive place to invest and do business whilst we do this,” Dee said.
                     “We must not make the UK an uncompetitive place to invest and do business whilst we do this”Karen 
Dee, Chief Executive of the Airport Operators Association                   
She called for the government to “reinvest the funds raised from aviation back into the sector.”
“That way we work to transform aviation, not just reduce people’s access to it.”
Dee’s comments were echoed by Ryanair, who said the government must reinvest funds from ETS to “reduce the 
financial burden on airline passengers,” which often comes in the form of ticket fare hikes.
Adam Bell, ex-head of energy at BEIS and head of policy at Stonehaven toldCity A.M. that while this would not 
have been a surprise to the industry, it remains to be seen how these “new prices will bite.”
He said: “Whether carbon costs drive additional decarbonisation – or just reduce flying – is the critical question.”
The government hopes to soften the challenge industries face by allowing unused allowances between 2021 and 
2023 to be used in auctions between 2024 and 2027.
                       City A.M. approached the government for comment.
Read more
UK industry risks falling foul of EU’s new carbon tax
Load-Date: October 10, 2023
End of Document
Profit-pumped Ryanair announces plans for first ever regular dividend
Profit-pumped Ryanair announces plans for first ever regular dividend
Cityam.com
November 6, 2023 Monday 7:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 381 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair announced its maiden dividend for shareholders this morning as soaring ticket fares helped the 
carrier net record profits.
Body
Ryanair announced its maiden dividend for shareholders this morning as soaring ticket fares helped the carrier net 
a record €2.18bn (£1.8bn) half-year profit.
Revenues rose by nearly a third to €8.6bn for the six months to 30 September, on the back of a 24 per cent jump in 
ticket fares, per a market update this morning.
The low cost-carrier said it now anticipates an annual post-tax profit of between €1.85bn and €2.05bn, well ahead of 
a previous record of €1.45bn in 2018. Half-year earnings of €2.18bn were up 59 per cent, also breaking a prior 
record set last year.
Shares in Ryanair jumped six per cent on the open.
It comes after a record summer of traffic for the Dublin-headquartered firm, which has seen passenger numbers fly 
on resurgent demand for travel following years of Covid-era travel restrictions.
Traffic grew 11 per cent to 105.4m passengers, with the lionshare of the numbers coming in over the summer.
Ryanair announced its maiden ordinary dividend of €400m, split between an initial payment of €200m in February 
and a final dividend of €200m in September 2024.
Despite the bumper results, chief executive Michael O’Leary noted headwinds in the form of rising fuel costs, 
Boeing delivery delays and Europe’s “inefficient” air traffic control system.
“While Boeing are currently suffering delivery delays with Spirit – their fuselage supplier – we are working with them 
to minimise delays ahead of peak summer 2024. At this stage, we are concerned that up to 10 of our 57 contracted 
gamechanger deliveries pre summer may be delayed until winter 2024.”
Profit-pumped Ryanair announces plans for first ever regular dividend
Operating costs rose by just under a quarter to €6.2bn as a result of higher staffing and fuel costs, up 29 per cent 
year-on-year.
The results continue a booming year for the airline, but it has not been without its fair share of problems. The firm 
lowered its annual passenger forecast to 183.5m in July, citing Boeing 737 deliver delays in the coming spring and 
autumn. 
Other carriers have seen a share price slump over the last month as conflict in the Middle East bumps up global oil 
prices and supply chain snarl-ups bite.  Ryanair is one of the most strongly hedged airlines, with fuel requirements 
hedged at approximately 85 per cent for 2024. 
Read more
Boeing delays don’t take shine off Ryanair’s post-pandemic takeoff
Load-Date: November 6, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair: O’Leary closes in on £86m bonus as shares break records
Ryanair: O’Leary closes in on £86m bonus as shares break records
Cityam.com
December 17, 2023 Sunday 12:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 328 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary could be in line for a bumper €100m (£86m) pay packet after 
shares reached record highs.
Body
Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary could be in line for a bumper €100m (£86m) pay packet, as the carrier’s 
shares hit record highs this week.
O’Leary will receive share options of around €100m, one of the largest payouts in corporate Europe’s history, 
should the low-cost airline’s shares reach €21 for 28 days, or if it nets €2.2bn in annual post-tax profit. 
Shares reached €18.99 on Friday and are up over 50 per cent in the year to date, with Ryanair proving one of the 
biggest beneficiaries of this years post-Covid travel boom.
The company is looking at post-tax profits of between €1.85bn and €2.05bn for the year ending March, a forecast 
made after it reported record half-year earnings November and announced a maiden dividend for shareholders.
The 62-year old, who has served as the Irish group’s boss for nigh on two decades, agreed last December to widen 
his contract to 2028, in a deal which extended the company’s bonus scheme to the same year. 
He also holds a 3.9 per cent stake at a market value of €907m, according to Factset data cited by the Financial 
Times , who first reported the story.
Rival Wizz Air’s chief executive, József Váradi, could also be in line for an eye-watering £100m bonus, should the 
Hungarian airline’s market value reach £12bn by 2028.
But low-cost carriers are facing significant headwinds as supply chain issues refuse to let up and oil prices spike on 
resurgent conflict in the Middle East.
Ryanair: O’Leary closes in on £86m bonus as shares break records
Despite a stellar run this year, Ryanair has repeatedly warned over delivery delays at Boeing, which influenced a 
fare rise of nearly a quarter during the busy summer season.The company also trimmed its full-year traffic guidance 
as a result of the supply chain setbacks. 
Meanwhile, Wizz Air slashed its capacity for the second half of the year by 10 per cent in summer, after issues were 
uncovered with the engines of some of its Airbus aircraft.
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air face ‘unignorable’ challenges ahead of crunch results week
Load-Date: December 17, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers dip as Middle East conflict axes routes
Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers dip as Middle East conflict axes 
routes
Cityam.com
November 2, 2023 Thursday 8:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 286 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair and Wizz Air reported a dip in passenger numbers in October, as conflict in the Middle East 
caused carriers to axe a number of routes.
Body
Ryanair and Wizz Air reported a dip in passenger numbers in October, as travel demand cooled and conflict in the 
Middle East caused carriers to axe a number of routes.
Wizz Air carried 5.4m passengers last month, down from 5.5m in September, while Ryanair’s traffic fell from 17.4m 
to 17.1m.
Figures for both budget carriers’ still came in higher than the prior year, with Wizz Air up 19 per cent and Ryanair 
seeing a more marginal 9 per cent rise on October 2022.
Load factor, the proportion of seats an airline is able to sell, held strong at around 93 per cent for both groups.
The dip came after Hamas’s invasion of Israel prompted a slew of airlines to cancel flights to the regions in October. 
Ryanair said today it had cancelled 870 flights so far due to the Israel-Gaza conflict.
Wizz Air, which has suspended its operations in Israel until November 15, did not disclose cancellations or 
disruption as a result of the violencein its market update.
It marks a shift in fortunes for both Ryanair and WizzAir, which had reported record passenger traffic over the 
summer as consumers nourished pent-up demand for travel following years of lockdown.
The share price of a slew of budget airlines has tailed off in the last month, with the likes of Easyjet, Wizz Air and 
Jet2 all down. Wizz has fallen nearly 20 per cent.
The conflict in the Middle East has also caused global oil prices to spike, raising fears of the rising cost of kerosene-
based jet fuels.
Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers dip as Middle East conflict axes routes
Analysts are concerned that this years’ resurgent holiday demand will be unsustainable in the long-run, with the 
typically quieter winter months looming and corporate travel still lagging behind.
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air numbers rubbish fears of travel slowdown
Load-Date: November 2, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair boss O’Leary announces flight cuts due to Boeing plane delivery delays
Ryanair boss O’Leary announces flight cuts due to Boeing plane delivery 
delays
Cityam.com
September 28, 2023 Thursday 9:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 318 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight: Ryanair announced it has cut its winter flight schedule due to delays in the delivery of new Boeing 737 
planes. It will reduce the number of aircraft it planned to base at several airports across Europe, including East 
Midlands Airport and Dublin Airport. The airline said it was due to receive 27 new Boeing aircraft [...]
Body
Ryanair announced it has cut its winter flight schedule due to delays in the delivery of new Boeing 737 planes.
It will reduce the number of aircraft it planned to base at several airports across Europe, including East Midlands 
Airport and Dublin Airport.
The airline said it was due to receive 27 new Boeing aircraft between September and December,  but expects the 
figure to be just 14.
This has been attributed to production delays at the Spirit fuselage factory in Wichita, Kansas, combined with 
Boeing hold-ups in repairs and deliveries in Seattle, Washington.
Ryanair  boss Michael O’Leary said: “We are working closely with Boeing  and their supplier, Spirit, to minimise 
these delivery delays.
“It is deeply regrettable that production problems in Wichita and in Seattle have yet again delayed Boeing’s 
contracted deliveries to Ryanair this winter.
“We are in regulardialogue with Boeing,  and our primary objective is to ensure we get delivery of all 57 contracted 
B737 aircraft before the end of May 2024, so that Ryanair’s  fleet can grow to over 600 aircraft for what will be our 
largest ever summer flight programme.
“These flight cancellations will take effect from the end of October, and will be communicated to all affected 
passengers by email over the coming days.
Ryanair boss O’Leary announces flight cuts due to Boeing plane delivery delays
“Passengers will be offered re-accommodation on alternative flights or full refunds as they so wish.
“We apologise sincerely to passengers for any inconvenience caused by these delivery delays this winter.
“At this early date, we do not expect these delivery delays will materially affect our full-year traffic target of 183.5 
million, but if the delays worsen or extend further into the January to March 2024 period, we may have to revisit this 
figure and possibly adjust it slightly downward.”
Press Association – Neil Lancefield 
Read more
Ryanair hits another passenger record but air traffic control chaos ‘has still not been explained’
Load-Date: September 28, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair ’s O’Leary launches tirade against NATS after ’tissue of lies’ on air traffic failure
Ryanair’s O’Leary launches tirade against NATS after ’tissue of lies’ on air 
traffic failure
Cityam.com
October 18, 2023 Wednesday 10:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 563 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary has launched a tirade against the boss of NATS over 
August's air traffic control failure.
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary launched a tirade against the boss of Britain’s National Air Traffic Services 
(NATS), describing the group’s report into August’s air traffic control disaster as “a complete tissue of nonsense” 
and “completely misleading”.
Approximately 2,000 flights were cancelled on August 28 at airports across the country, following a system-wide 
failure at NATS, the UK’s premier airspace provider.
In a heated Transport Select Committee hearing this morning, airline bosses revealed the true extent of this 
summer’s unprecedented failure, in direct contradiction to NATS’s own account of the event.
Ryanair’s combative chief described the operator’s summary as a “tissue of lies, misinformation and NATS should 
be asked to explain it.”
O’Leary said the Dublin-based carrier — which accounts for approximately 20 per cent of the UK industry — had 
delayed 1,000 flights that day, despite NATS report claiming a total figure of 575.
He also refuted NATS’s statement that the disaster had been a “one in 15 million failure” due to a duplicate 
waypoint from an unnamed airline.
O’Leary told MPs the budget airline had received written correspondence from other ATC providers that “they 
routinely and regularly receive flight plans that have duplicate waypoints in them.
“All of their systems are designed… to reject it and they deal with it manually. This is routine, it happens on a daily 
basis both within NATS and every other European ATC system,” he said. 
Ryanair ’s O’Leary launches tirade against NATS after ’tissue of lies’ on air traffic failure
“And yet on Monday 28 August, NATS collapsed their system.”
His stinging criticism, much of which was subsequently denied by the airspace operator, came after furious 
correspondence with NATS chief Martin Rolfe was revealed  ahead of the meeting, in which O’Leary called for his 
resignation amid “mismanagement and incompetence”.
A host of airlines gave evidence to MPs this morning, including Easyjet, Loganair and the trade body Airlines UK.
Tim Alderslade, who heads up the lobby group, said the impact had been “unprecedented”, resulting in 1m minutes 
of delays and thousands of cancellations. “I don’t think this should be underestimated, the kind of impact this had on 
the sector.”
                     “I don’t think this should be underestimated, the kind of impact this had on the sector.”Tim Alderslade, 
Airlines UK                   
Alderslade noted the communication from NATS had been “very poor” with the group not hearing from them 
formally “until the following day.”
The incident occurred at 8:30am in the morning, yet wasn’t resolved until 2:30pm and “we still had restrictions going 
at 6pm that evening. So it absolutely threw the entire UK aviation sector,” MPs heard.
One airline reportedly had half of their entire programme cancelled, with all flights operating that day suffering from 
delays.
Other airlines have said they only heard of the event via Sky News or Eurocontrol, Europe’s airspace provider.
O’Leary estimated the total cost for Ryanair of compensation for passengers at around £15m and demanded this be 
repaid by NATS, whose stakeholders include airlines, pension funds and the UK government.
“Instead of paying £50m in dividends to your shareholders on an annual basis, you should be reimbursing the 
airlines for the right to care expenses that you inflicted upon us,” he said.
NATS was approached for comment.
Read more
Ryanair boss slams ‘unacceptable’ air traffic control chaos
Load-Date: October 18, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair chief calls for UK air traffic control boss to go after Gatwick outage
Ryanair chief calls for UK air traffic control boss to go after Gatwick outage
Cityam.com
December 10, 2023 Sunday 2:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 366 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: The boss of Ryanair has called for head of the UK's air traffic control body to step down after an outage 
at Gatwick yesterday caused significant disruption.
Body
The boss of Ryanair has called for head of the UK’s air traffic control body to step down after an outage at Gatwick 
yesterday caused significant disruption.
Flights were grounded and passengers faced hours of delays on Saturday after a system failure at the east-Sussex 
hub’s air traffic control tower. 
In a statement, Ryanair’s combative chief Michael O’Leary said: “It’s time for Martin Rolfe to go. At an annual 
package of over £1.5m this clown has repeatedly shown he is incompetent.”
The outage at Gatwick is the latest in a string of incidents at the UK’s National Air Traffic Service (NATS). In 
August, a “one in 15 million” system-wide meltdown caused thousands of cancellations across the country’s 
airspace. 
“If he won’t quit, then transport minister Mark Harper should fire him. These repeated UK NATS system failures are 
unique to the UK and are not repeated in any other European ATC service,” O’Leary said.
August’s failure drew widespread criticism from a slew of airline bosses, including Easyjet’s Johann Lundgren and 
O’Leary, who have questioned whether the organisation is fit for purpose.
A review into the incident is ongoing. 
Gatwick’s NATs-operated tower has faced particular scrutiny since it was forced to cap flights in late September for 
weeks, after nearly a third of staff in its air traffic tower were unavailable due to sickness.
Former British Airways’ boss Willie Walsh, who also heads up the trade body IATA, named Gatwick in October as 
one of the worst offenders in Europe for air traffic control incidents.
Ryanair chief calls for UK air traffic control boss to go after Gatwick outage
Flight disruption caused by airspace issues remains a feature of European travel more broadly, with French Air 
Traffic Control strikes and the war in Ukraine affecting multiple flight routes.
A spokesperson for NATs said: “For a short period yesterday morning we had a technical issue that was quickly 
fixed. To make sure safety was maintained departures were paused temporarily but were resumed around 8am. We 
worked with airlines to minimise delays and would like to apologise for anyone whose journey was affected.”
Gatwick Airport was approached for comment.
Read more
Ryanair’s O’Leary launches tirade against NATS after ’tissue of lies’ on air traffic failure
Load-Date: December 10, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair slams EU chief for ‘ignoring’ a million passengers during French strikes
Ryanair slams EU chief for ‘ignoring’ a million passengers during French 
strikes
Cityam.com
June 5, 2023 Monday 7:19 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 314 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair has hit out at the President of the EU Commission Ursula von der Leyen, for “ignoring” over a 
million passengers calling for the protection of overflights during ongoing strikes action. The budget airline said it is 
“utterly unacceptable” that von der Leyen is “ignoring these more than 1.1 million passengers, who are sick and 
[...]The post Ryanair slams EU chief for ‘ignoring’ a million passengers during French strikes appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has hit out at the President of the EU Commission Ursula von der Leyen, for “ignoring” over a million 
passengers calling for the protection of overflights during ongoing strikes action.
The budget airline said it is “utterly unacceptable” that von der Leyen is “ignoring these more than 1.1 million 
passengers, who are sick and tired of having their overflights cancelled at short notice due to repeated strikes.”
It comes as French ATC operators stage fresh walk outs today and tomorrow in an ongoing dispute over pension 
reforms proposed by Macron, which would see the retirement age in France increased from 62 to 64 years old. 
“The EU Commission must now take urgent action and insist that all states protect overflights during ATC strikes as 
is already done in Greece, Italy and Spain.”
The Hungary-based carrier asked the Commission to protect 100 per cent of overflights during the strikes, require a 
72 hour notice of employee participation and a 21-day notice period for any future industrial action.
France currently protects a number of domestic and short-haul flights through minimum service rules, while some 
other European countries instead protect overflights during strikes. Ryanair argue “this is unfair.”
“France should use Minimum Service Laws to protect overflights during ATC strikes as they do in Greece, Italy and 
Spain,” the carrier said this morning.
Ryanair slams EU chief for ‘ignoring’ a million passengers during French strikes
Ryanair’s  statement said that there had been 58 days of ATC strike action over the past five months in France, and 
that this was over 11 times higher than 2022.
The airline officially submitted its petition to von der Leyen last week.
The EU Commission has been approached for comment.
Read more
Ryanair posts record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes and high fuel prices
The post Ryanair slams EU chief for ‘ignoring’ a million passengers during French strikes  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 16, 2023
End of Document
Online travel agents urge government to investigate Ryanair over ‘invasive’ booking system
Online travel agents urge government to investigate Ryanair over ‘invasive’ 
booking system
Cityam.com
August 10, 2023 Thursday 2:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 411 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: A coalition of Europe’s largest online travel agents has called on UK regulators to urgently investigate 
potential “infringements of customers’ data privacy rights” by Ryanair, escalating a long-running row between the 
groups. In a letter addressed to the CMA, CAA and ICO, companies including Expedia Group, On the Beach and 
Skyscanner argued that Ryanair’s verification [...]
Body
A coalition of Europe’s largest online travel agents has called on UK regulators to urgently investigate potential 
“infringements of customers’ data privacy rights” by Ryanair, escalating a long-running row between the groups.
In a letter addressed to the CMA, CAA and ICO, companies including Expedia Group, On the Beach and 
Skyscanner argued that Ryanair’s verification process for passengers booking via a third party, rather than directly, 
could be in breach of data protection laws.
The process includes uploading a “substantial amount of sensitive personal information” in order to access booking 
or check-in online, they claim, with the low-cost carrier making it as “difficult and invasive as possible”.
The letter, seen byCity A.M., notes that personal information required by the facial recognition process includes 
“race and gender” and could expose passengers to “significant risks to their privacy, rights and freedoms in the 
event of a data breach”.
The companies said that they can only assume Ryanair’s “real motivation” for the checks is to make consumers feel 
they have “no choice but to book directly” with the airline in future.
Today’s feud is just the latest in a long-running dispute between online booking agents and the Dublin-based airline 
over third party bookings.
Airlines prefer passengers to book direct so they can rake in greater revenues by offering a maze of fees, in-flight 
offers and options to pay for seats.
Online travel agents urge government to investigate Ryanair over ‘invasive’ booking system
Ryanair, however, claim that online travel agents (OTAs) are engaged in malpractice. Just last week, it launched 
fresh calls for passengers to book direct.
“OTAs continue to mislead passengers to believe they are getting the cheapest price… by falsely advertising lower 
fares than the airlines themselves,” the carrier claimed.
An ICO spokesperson said: “Organisations must only collect the personal information that they need for their 
specified purposes and no more. Where they are collecting biometric data in order to identify people, they must 
meet specific conditions set out in law.”
“We have received the letter from Online Travel UK and recognise the concerns raised about the collection of 
biometric data by Ryanair, alongside the stress and uncertainty experienced by customers worried about their travel 
plans.
“We will consider the issues raised in the letter and will be making enquiries with Ryanair.”
The CAA and CMA were contacted for comment.
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air caught up in fresh greenwashing allegations
Load-Date: August 10, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair boss slams ‘unacceptable’ air traffic control chaos
Ryanair boss slams ‘unacceptable’ air traffic control chaos
Cityam.com
August 29, 2023 Tuesday 3:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 543 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has slammed air traffic control (ATC) provider Nats for the “unacceptable” 
disruption caused over the past two days.
Body
Ryanair  boss Michael O’Leary has slammed air traffic control (ATC) provider Nats for the “unacceptable” disruption 
caused over the past two days.
In a video message, the chief executive described Monday as “a very difficult day” with 250 flights cancelled, while 
a further 70 were axed on Tuesday.
He said: “We have been in contact with UK Nats.
“We still haven’t had an explanation from them [about] what exactly caused this failure yesterday and where were 
their back-up systems.
“It’s not acceptable that UK Nats simply allow their computer systems to be taken down and everybody’s flights get 
cancelled.”
Speaking from the airline’s operations centre at Dublin Airport, O’Leary went on: “We’ve had a very difficult day 
yesterday due to the UK Nats ATC failure.
“I’m sad to report that we had to cancel about 250 flights affecting the flights of about 40,000 passengers because 
of long delays to flight plans, crews running out of hours.
“Last night we had 20 aircraft that couldn’t get back to their home bases so they’re out of place for today.
“Today, unfortunately, it looks like we’re going to cancel about another 70 flights.
“That’s a very small number out of the 3,200 flights we’re planning but that doesn’t mean we’re not doing everything 
we possibly can to try to minimise the disruption for our passengers and their families.”
Ryanair boss slams ‘unacceptable’ air traffic control chaos
He added: “We hope by the end of today, Tuesday, that from tomorrow we’ll be running a normal operation.”
There is speculation the fault was caused by a French  airline submitting a flight plan to Nats in the wrong format.
Nats would not comment on whether that was accurate.
It said on Monday the problem was the result of a “technical issue affecting our flight planning system”.
Former Nats controller Doug Maclean said he did not know whether the actions of a French carrier were to blame, 
but believed an “operational glitch” was likely to have happened.
Asked if the problem could reoccur, he replied: “I wouldn’t think that there’s much likelihood of a failure but as long 
as Nats don’t say anything it’s a perfectly legitimate question.”
He added: “What was the problem? I don’t understand why they’re so closed mouth about it.”
Downing Street did not rule out the possibility that an inputting error by a French airline could have caused the 
disruption.
The Prime Minister’s official spokesman said: “[I] think you’ll know that there’s going to be an investigation by the 
CAA [Civil Aviation Authority], and a report shared with government.
“I think [transport secretary] Mark Harper confirmed this morning he’ll be getting that in days.
“I’m not going to pre-empt that. I’ve seen, obviously, various bits of speculation, but I’m not going to pre-empt the 
work that needs to be done.”
But he added that experts had confirmed it was a “technical issue, not a cyber security incident”.
Asked if officials would speak to counterparts across the English Channel, the spokesman said “you would expect 
them to be speaking regularly” with other countries, “but I’m not aware of any specific conversations with French 
counterparts”.
                       Neil Lancefield – P                     ress Association                   
Read more
Michael O’Leary slams aviation minister as Ryanair quits ‘waffling and useless’ govt advisory group
Load-Date: August 29, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair accused of ‘besmirching’ online travel agents as bitter feud rumbles on
Ryanair accused of ‘besmirching’ online travel agents as bitter feud rumbles 
on
Cityam.com
August 22, 2023 Tuesday 2:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 548 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair has been accused of “besmirching” online travel businesses with “aggressive anti-competition 
marketing campaigns” as a long-running dispute between the digital platforms and the airline and rumbles on. 
Earlier this week, the Dublin-based carrier said that online travel agents (OTAs) were “misleading” passengers with 
“clickbait to lure customers in before hitting them with hidden mark-ups”. [...]
Body
Ryanair has been accused of “besmirching” online travel businesses with “aggressive anti-competition marketing 
campaigns” as a long-running dispute between the digital platforms and the airline and rumbles on.
Earlier this week, the Dublin-based carrier said that online travel agents (OTAs) were “misleading” passengers with 
“clickbait to lure customers in before hitting them with hidden mark-ups”.
A dossier compiled by the airline and seen byCity A.M. claims to show a slew of OTAs, including Opodo, eDreams 
and Kiwi.com , charging hidden mark-ups of “up to 200 per cent in some cases” for things like baggage storage and 
seat allocation.
Responding to the dossier, Luca Concone,chief executiveof Lastminute.com, toldCity A.M. that Ryanair has “held a 
long-established policy of besmirching the OTA business with aggressive anti-competition marketing campaigns”.
Concone argued Lastminute.com offers a “superior booking experience,” and that adding service fees was a 
“common practice, not specific to Ryanair.”
The airline’s approach “flies in the face” of the sector’s attempts to rebuild sliding consumer confidence and trust in 
the travel industry, he continued.
The dispute between Ryanair and OTAs has been ongoing for years and has resulted in a number of significant 
court cases.
Ryanair accused of ‘besmirching’ online travel agents as bitter feud rumbles on
Earlier this month, a host of OTAs, including Booking.com, Expedia and Skyscanner urged UK regulators to 
investigate Ryanair for “infringements of customers’ data privacy rights” through its stringent online verification 
process for third-party bookings.
Airlines generally prefer passengers to book directly with themselves so they can charge for add-on fees, in-flight 
offers and specific seat allocation. 
Revenue from non-ticket sources or ‘ancillary’ revenue made up a third of Ryanair’s earnings in its most recent 
quarterly results.
The low-cost carrier’s dossier claims that Kiwi.com – who operate in the Czech Republic, London and US – had 
priced its “allocated seating” add-on at well over double the carrier’s fee and charges for a slew of offerings and 
ancillaries that Ryanair offers for free.
In a statement today, Kiwi.com said that “Ryanair’s ‘audits’ do not consider the bigger picture.”
The travel firm argued the airline had “hand picked” comparisons from the search function, which do not show what 
a customer actually books. 
This could include combination of flights from different airlines in one itinerary plus a range of services that brings 
the overall price down. 
Online Travel UK – an association of UK online travel businesses – described the airline’s claims as “spurious.” 
“Ryanair is the only airline, as far as we are aware, which makes these spurious claims regarding bookings via 
online travel companies, and it is the only one imposing invasive and unnecessary online verification processes on 
our customers.”
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, said OTAs had been engaged in “rampant internet piracy” and were 
“overcharging consumers for air fares or ancillary services.”
“These internet pirates’ business models can only survive if they manage to overcharge consumers for air fares or 
ancillary services which they know are lower priced on Ryanair’s website,” he said.
Read more
Online travel agents urge government to investigate Ryanair over ‘invasive’ booking system
Load-Date: August 22, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair grounded 650 flights in April due to strike chaos despite petition to ‘keep skies open’
Ryanair grounded 650 flights in April due to strike chaos despite petition to 
‘keep skies open’
Cityam.com
May 3, 2023 Wednesday 8:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 239 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair has said over 650 flights were cancelled due to the French Air Traffic Controller strikes in April, 
meaning almost 120,000 passengers couldn’t fly. Flight traffic grew by 13 per cent year on year to 16mn guests 
overall, with the firm operating a total of 89,650 flights in April. The low-cost carrier saw load factor [...]The post 
Ryanair grounded 650 flights in April due to strike chaos despite petition to ‘keep skies open’ appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has said over 650 flights were cancelled due to the French Air Traffic Controller strikes in April, meaning 
almost 120,000 passengers couldn’t fly.
Flight traffic grew by 13 per cent year on year to 16mn guests overall, with the firm operating a total of 89,650 flights 
in April. 
The low-cost carrier saw load factor increase by three percentage points from April last year, rising to 94 per cent.
However,the firm acknowledged that last year’s data was skewed  by the impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, 
which hit traffic and load factors.
Since the first four months of 2023, there have been over 50 days of French ATC strikes, resulting in more than 
3,700 cancellations. According to Ryanair, this has affected 660,000 passengers.
The most recent round of strikes took place this Monday, resulting in Ryanair cancelling 220 flights. The strikes also 
create further delays as pilots are forced to lengthen their routes to avoid French airspace.
Ryanair has been one of the worst affected by the ATC action and recently published a petition, calling on the EU 
Commission to take action to “keep skies open” when the action takes place. 
It has currently surpassed 600,000 signatures, as of 3 May.
Ryanair grounded 650 flights in April due to strike chaos despite petition to ‘keep skies open’
Read more
Flying start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on Ryanair and Wizz Air
The post Ryanair grounded 650 flights in April due to strike chaos despite petition to ‘keep skies open’  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 3, 2023
End of Document
Boeing delays don’t take shine off Ryanair ’s post-pandemic takeoff
Boeing delays don’t take shine off Ryanair’s post-pandemic takeoff
Cityam.com
July 24, 2023 Monday 6:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 482 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair saw its first quarter profits fly past pre-pandemic levels to €663m (£572m) in the three months 
up to the end of June as it cashed in on soaring demand and rising ticket fares. The budget carrier is currently 
operating its largest ever summer schedule and said passenger traffic rose 11 per cent to 50.4 [...]
Body
Ryanair saw its first quarter profits fly past pre-pandemic levels to €663m (£572m) in the three months up to the end 
of June as it cashed in on soaring demand and rising ticket fares.
The budget carrier is currently operating its largest ever summer schedule and said passenger traffic rose 11 per 
cent to 50.4 million, with an average load factor – the percentage of available seats an an airline is able to sell – of 
95 per cent.
Revenues also rose to €3.65bn (£3.1bn),up 40 per cent. 
Continuing an accelerating trend in the sector and prompted by high demand, Ryanair said its ticket fares had risen 
42 per cent year-on-year, with second quarter fares also expected to be “higher than the prior year… but by a low 
double digit percentage.”
Ryanair did acknowledge that some of the year on year comparisons have been inflated by a rebound in demand in 
eastern Europe, which was lower last year in the more immediate wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s Chief Executive, said: “We are operating our largest ever summer schedule with over 
3,200 flights and up to 600,000 passengers daily. We have opened 3 new bases in Belfast, Lanzarote and Tenerife 
and over 190 new routes, further growing our no.1 or no. 2 share in the Italian, Polish, Spanish and UK markets.”
Despite the bumper profits – nearly quadruple those of the prior year -the Dublin-headquartered firm lowered its 
passenger forecast for the year ahead to 183.5 million, down from 185 million, citing Boeing 737 delivery delays in 
the coming spring and autumn.
Boeing delays don’t take shine off Ryanair ’s post-pandemic takeoff
O’Leary said “Boeing has suffered multiple supply chain challenges, causing repeated delivery delays. We have 
worked closely with Boeing to minimise these delays, and the disruption to our schedules and traffic targets.”
The results come today as airlines move into the busiest period of a critical summer season, which has seen 
extraordinary levels of demand and a string of deals for new aircrafts.
A post-pandemic dash to go abroad, despite cost-of-living concerns, has helped major carriers close in on pre-
pandemic profits, with Ryanair’s first quarter results a strong indicator of the upcoming aviation boom.
In May, O’Leary’s outfit posted record full-year profits of $1.57bn (£1.26bn) and forecast passenger numbers rising 
to 185 million by the end of 2023.
This had followed a collosal $40bn (£30bn) order for 300 Boeing-737 Max, the largest ever placed for by an Irish 
company for US manufactured goods.
Airlines have also cashed in on rising ticket fares as a result of the surge in bookings and costs of switching to 
greener fuels, with some in the industry forecasting the end of the era of low-cost flying.
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) said in June that it expects fares to keep rising for the next 10-15 
years.
Read more
Ryanair posts record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes and high fuel prices
Load-Date: July 24, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air beats strike-hit Ryanair on passenger rise before critical summer getaway
Wizz Air beats strike-hit Ryanair on passenger rise before critical summer 
getaway
Cityam.com
July 4, 2023 Tuesday 7:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 395 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Wizz Air began the much-anticipated summer season of travel with a 23 per cent year-on-year boost in 
passenger numbers over June, as it outpaced its strike-hit ultra-low cost rival Ryanair. Its rival, Ryanair, reported 
passenger figures grew just nine per cent to 17.4m last month. The decline was attributed to airline being forced to 
cancel [...]
Body
Wizz Air began the much-anticipated summer season of travel with a 23 per cent year-on-year boost in passenger 
numbers over June, as it outpaced its strike-hit ultra-low cost rival Ryanair.
Its rival, Ryanair, reported passenger figures grew just nine per cent to 17.4m last month. The decline was 
attributed to airline being forced to cancel 900 flights as a result of French Air traffic controller strikes – affecting 
160,000 passengers.
Capitalising on the strike-hit, Wizz Air carried 5.3m passengers over the month, up from 4m on the previous year 
and marking a strong start to what is expected to be a booming period for London-listed budget airlines.
The June numbers also took its load factor – the amount of available seating being used – of 92.2 per cent, up from 
86.1 per cent last year and meaning the majority of its available seats were booked up. Ryanair saw load factors 
level out.
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary’s outfit has slammed the EU commission this year for “ignoring” passengers over the 
French strike action, calling on chief Ursula Von Der Leyen to take urgent action to protect overflight s from being 
cancelled.
Wizz Air meanwhile has been expecting this year’s record summer demand to finally dig it out of the lows of last 
year, which saw it fall behind rivals EasyJet and Ryanair in its post-pandemic recovery.
This June, it reported operating losses of £401.6m in its full-year results, but analysts said that a dip in fuel prices 
and rising prices would see it turn a corner over the rest of the year.
Wizz Air beats strike-hit Ryanair on passenger rise before critical summer getaway
June also saw the airline announce big expansion plans, with ten new routes announced on its Albanian network – 
to Birmingham, Liverpool and Edinburgh – and 100 extra flights scheduled over the winter.
The high passenger numbers will provide a welcome, if already expected, relief for Europe’s fastest growing ultra-
low cost airline, after a turbulent few months which saw it come under scrutiny for poor passenger practices.
In May, Sunday Times investigation found it owed nearly £5m in unpaid refunds to passengers across 881 county 
court judgments.
This prompted claims that its Chief Executive Josef Varadi had overstretched Wizz Air in a single-minded pursuit of 
post-pandemic recovery.
It remains to be seen how both airlines will fare in what will be a critical second half of the year.
Read more
Ryanair’s passenger numbers soared in September
Load-Date: July 4, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air the worst offenders as airlines face ‘drip selling’ allegations
Ryanair and Wizz Air the worst offenders as airlines face ‘drip selling’ 
allegations
Cityam.com
August 21, 2023 Monday 4:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 622 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: European airlines have come under fire for ‘drip-selling’ after a report revealed 97 per cent of carriers on 
the continent are charging at least one “hidden fee” for their services amid already-rising air fares. Drip selling refers 
to companies hiding the true cost of products and services, by proclaiming one price initially but then charging [...]
Body
European airlines have come under fire for ‘drip-selling’ after a report revealed 97 per cent of carriers on the 
continent are charging at least one “hidden fee” for their services amid already-rising air fares.
Drip selling refers to companies hiding the true cost of products and services, by proclaiming one price initially but 
then charging extra fees. The tactic is used to sell productst ranging from air fares to gym memberships. 
Research from money-saving voucher site Netvouchercodes, a money saving voucher site – found that add-on fees 
for things like seat selection and onboard wifi have become far more common, with the share of airlines advertising 
them standing at 90 per cent globally. 
Ryanair was revealed as Europe’s worst offender, charging additional fees that worked out at a whopping 344 per 
cent of its average £18.39 flight cost.
Other low cost favourites fared little better, with Wizz Air coming a close second and charging an average £93.56 in 
hidden costs, 273 per cent of the price of its average flight. Easyjet finished third with average add-ons totalling 
£62.84, 170 per cent of the standard flight fee.
In June Prime Minister Rishi Sunak launched an investigation into how widespread and damaging ‘drip selling’ 
costs are for consumers. 
Responding to the report, consumer group Which’s travel editor , Rory Boland, said Ryanair had become “adept at 
boosting its coffers through an array of extra charges, which can be added on for anything from taking a decent-
sized bag to sitting with your family.” 
Ryanair and Wizz Air the worst offenders as airlines face ‘drip selling’ allegations
He argued that the the government should go further than its current review and “explicitly ban drip pricing in its 
Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Bill to prevent consumers being misled and to ensure a fair and 
competitive market”.
Today’s findings come just a week after Ryanair was embroiled in controversy for charging an elderly couple who 
checked into the wrong flight £110 for new boarding passes.
In a statement toCity A.M. Ryanair described the report as “factually inaccurate” and objected to the term “hidden 
fees”, arguing that “all products referred to are optional which the consumer can choose to add or not to add”.
“If they opt for none of these additional products they can still travel with a carry-on bag at the lowest fares in 
Europe which is fantastic value for consumers.”
The Dublin-based carrier has simultaneously been locked in a bitter feud with a slew of online travel agents (OTAs), 
who accuse it of attempting to discourage passengers from using alternative sites to book flights. 
Wizz Air, meanwhile, has fallen under heavy scrutiny from the UK’s aviation watchdog this year for falsely rejecting 
passengers’ compensation claims.
Responding toCity A.M. Wizz argued that prices and costs for “optional extras are clearly outlined on our website 
and app”.
“We are an ultra-low-cost carrier and to keep our fares low, we offer optional add-ons at an additional charge, such 
as checked luggage or preferential seating.”
The spokesperson added: “Optional add-ons are not required in order to fly, and we believe that customers should 
be offered the choice and flexibility to choose the right products for them.”
Easyjet claim the report shows the “fantastic value low fares” that the airline provides to customers each year and 
said that the carrier has no hidden charges.
Alongside add-on fees, airfares have soared this year as extraordinary demand for travel post Covid and the cost of 
decarbonisation leads to steep rises on many routes. 
According to the Office for National Statistics , ticket prices rose by 44.1 per cent in the year to December 2022, the 
biggest rise in prices in over 30 years.
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air caught up in fresh greenwashing allegations
Load-Date: August 21, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair posts record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes and high fuel prices
Ryanair posts record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes 
and high fuel prices
Cityam.com
May 22, 2023 Monday 6:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 466 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair posted record profits of $1.57bn (£1.26bn) in its full year results, as it cashed in on rising fares 
and strong traffic recovery – but warned it may experience turbulence in the near future. The low cost carrier flew a 
record 168.6m passengers, up 74 per cent, in the year ending March and said that [...]The post Ryanair posts 
record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes and high fuel prices appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair posted record profits of $1.57bn (£1.26bn) in its full year results, as it cashed in on rising fares and strong 
traffic recovery – but warned it may experience turbulence in the near future. 
The low cost carrier flew a record 168.6m passengers, up 74 per cent, in the year ending March and said that it 
expects passenger demand to remain high over summer.
It forecasts passenger numbers rising to 185m by the end of 2023 and for further profit rises, but warned that this 
could be affected by high fuel prices, as well as air traffic controller strikes in France.
The results come as resurgent travel demand continues to bolster airlines post-pandemic recovery, with Ryanair 
one of the biggest beneficiaries. 
Ryanair’s Chief Executive Officer, Michael O’Leary said: “This summer we will operate our largest ever schedule… 
capitalising on traffic restoration, and multi-year growth deals negotiated by our New Route teams.”
“Forward bookings and air fares currently into S.23 are strong and we continue to urge all customers to book early 
to avoid rising ‘close-in’ prices.”
Shares in the company rose by 1.69 per cent as of 10am this morning, following the announcement.
The airline said we remain “cautiously optimistic that FY24 revenue will grow sufficiently to cover our €1bn higher 
fuel bill and still deliver a modest year-on-year profit increase.”
Ryanair posts record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes and high fuel prices
However, it warned that “this guidance remains heavily dependent upon avoiding adverse events during FY24 such 
as the war in Ukraine or further, repeated, Boeing delivery delays.”
Earlier this month, the Dublin based carrier splashed out on 300 Boeing 737 max jets in a multi-billion dollar deal 
that made headlines, and followed a long dispute with the company over order delays. 
The group said that it anticipates the Boeing order growing traffic to 300m per annum.
Olly Anibaba, analyst at Third Bridge :“Our experts expect Ryanair’s summer traffic to reach 115 per cent compared 
to 2019 levels. However, passenger traffic will be limited by Boeing delivery delays and issues with French air traffic 
control.”
“The real test for Ryanair will be the off-peak periods, especially in winter. To fill up their planes, Ryanair might have 
to offer discounts.” 
“Ryanair and other airlines have signaled that the era of ultra-low fares might be coming to an end. They are 
preparing customers for potential price increases.”
Yesterday Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary says the company will steal market share from European rivals 
to propel growth, aiming to double passenger numbers to 300m per year within a decade.
Read more
Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers
The post Ryanair posts record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes and high fuel prices  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 22, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air trims profit forecast as Pratt & Whitney engine issues bite
Wizz Air trims profit forecast as Pratt & Whitney engine issues bite
Cityam.com
November 9, 2023 Thursday 7:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 450 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Wizz Air has narrowed its annual income guidance for 2024 despite swinging to profit, as engine issues 
at a key supplier continue to bite.
Body
Wizz Air narrowed its annual income guidance for 2024 despite swinging to record profit, as engine issues at a key 
supplier continue to bite.
The low-cost carrier said it now expects net income guidance to come in at a range of €350-400m (£305m-£348m) 
down from a June target of €350m-450m, citing difficult operating conditions.
Wizz was forced to slash its capacity forecast by 10 per cent earlier in the year after a production snarl-up with 
hundreds of its Pratt & Whitney-manufactured geared turbofan (GTF) engines.
The airline said today that it would be forced to ground 45 aircraft by the end of next year as a result, close to a third 
of its 187-strong fleet.
The tempered forecast came despite a record 33m passengers carried in the six months to October and a 
quadrupling of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)
EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) increased 303 per cent to €878m as 
revenues surged 39 per cent to £3.05bn. The FTSE 100-listed firm swung to a record profit of €400m in the period, 
up from a loss of €384m.
József Váradi, Wizz Air Chief Executive, said initial engine inspections after the GTF issue had a “minimal impact 
on our operational capacity, and we are taking measures to mitigate the impact of further inspections, including 
higher utilisation from our existing fleet, aircraft lease extensions and continued new aircraft deliveries.”
He added that most of the financial impact from “GTF removals will be mitigated by timely OEM compensation, 
while higher yield opportunities in our commercial programme will help protect revenue as market capacity remains 
constrained.”
Wizz Air trims profit forecast as Pratt & Whitney engine issues bite
The airline said in a statement it expects overall impact on ASK capacity, a measure of an airline’s carrying capacity 
to generate revenue, was expected to be around 20 per cent higher year-on-year. 
Booking forecasts remain “positive” for the third quarter, Váradi said, with load factor increasing marginally to 
around 92 per cent.
Wizz Air’s share price has fared poorly over the last month despite this summers’ record travel bonanza. It fell 
nearly 20 per cent in October, driven by concerns over the Pratt and Whitney issue.
A spike in jet fuel costs after oil prices rose on fresh conflict in the Middle East is also causing investors to fret. The 
Hungarian airline has struggled in recent years to sort out its hedging strategy, which analysts have described as 
“comparably weak” with the rest of the sector.
Rival Ryanair this week forecast record full-year profits and announced its maiden dividend on the back of rising 
ticket fares and strong demand.
Read more
Profit-pumped Ryanair announces plans for first ever regular dividend
Load-Date: November 9, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair hits another passenger record but air traffic control chaos ‘has still not been explained’
Ryanair hits another passenger record but air traffic control chaos ‘has still 
not been explained’
Cityam.com
September 4, 2023 Monday 6:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 381 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair flew a record number of passengers for the fourth month in a row in August, but it also admitted 
350 cancellations due to the recent air traffic control scandal which had “still not been explained”. The low-cost 
carrier said it had carried 18.9m passengers, up 11 per cent year-on-year and representing an increase from [...]
Body
Ryanair flew a record number of passengers for the fourth month in a row in August, but it also admitted 350 
cancellations due to the recent air traffic control scandal which had “still not been explained”.
The low-cost carrier said it had carried 18.9m passengers, up 11 per cent year-on-year and representing an 
increase from a July record of 18.7m.
Ryanair’s figures provide a fitting end as one of the busiest summer seasons of travel on record draws to a close, 
and came alongside further reported passenger rises at budget rival Wizz Air.
Over six million passengers flew with Wizz in August, representing a 23.9 per cent year-on-year increase and taking 
its rolling total for the year to 62m, up from 47m in 2022. 
Load factor, which refers to the proportion of seats filled by its passengers, remained strong for both airlines – at 96 
per cent and 94.1 per cent for Ryanair and Wizz Air respectively.
Pent-up demand stemming from the pandemic has swept across the sector this summer, with carriers including 
Easyjet and British Airways-owner the IAG all reporting huge profits. 
The IAG raked in a staggering €1.25bn (£1.07bn) profit in its July results.
But it has also been a summer marred by disruption, with air traffic control chaos in the UK and France, as well as 
wildfires in Southern Europe, forcing carriers to cancel thousands of flights.
Ryanair hits another passenger record but air traffic control chaos ‘has still not been explained’
Ryanair said today that the air traffic control failure in the UK last summer had resulted in the cancellation of over 
350 flights over the two following days, affecting 63,000 passengers and questioned why the cause had “still not 
been explained.” 
Industrial action in France as a result of Macron’s pension reforms have seen hundreds of French ATC workers 
stage repeat walk-outs, resulting in Easyjet cancelling over 1,700 flights.
Ryanair claim the dispute has forced it to cancel 4,000 flights over the course of the year and combative chief 
executive Michael O’Leary has described the situation as a “shambles.”
Transport Secretary Mark Harper will today receive the results of the UK aviation watchdog’s independent inquiry 
into the air traffic system failure last week and it will likely spark further debate over the resilience of the European 
system.
Read more
Ryanair smashes monthly passenger record as Europe jets off for the summer
Load-Date: September 4, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers
Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting 
passenger numbers
Cityam.com
May 9, 2023 Tuesday 1:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 648 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair has placed a multi billion dollar order for up to 300 Boeing 737 Max 10 jets in a deal which 
would mark the end of a dispute between the two aviation giants. The deal is estimated to be worth around $40bn 
(£31.7m) based on listed prices, with a discount likely due to the sheer [...]The post Ryanair places multi-billion 
Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has placed a multi billion dollar order for up to 300 Boeing 737 Max 10  jets in a deal which would mark the 
end of a dispute between the two aviation giants.
The deal is estimated to be worth around $40bn (£31.7m) based on listed prices, with a discount likely due to the 
sheer size of the order.
Boeing  said that a firm order of 150 of the largest of Boeing’s 737 max planes had been made, with the option of 
150 more. Shares in the group rose 2.5 per cent shortly after the announcement.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive said that 150 of the jets will replace older planes in the fleet, with the 
other 150 facilitating “growth to just over 300 million guests per annum by 2034.”
The announcement will bolster the Boeing 737 brand, which has faced a drop in global deliveries due to two major 
accident that saw the airliner grounded worldwide in 2019.
The triple digit deal concludes 18 months of dispute between Boeing and Ryanair, after discussions collapsed last 
year. O’Leary subsequently launched a tirade of criticism concerning delays to orders and the company’s 
management, which he said were “running around like headless chickens.”
                     Boeing-Ryanair partnership                   
Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers
Dave Calhoun, president of Boeing, said the”the Boeing-Ryanair partnership is one of the most productive in 
commercial aviation history, enabling both companies to succeed and expand affordable travel to hundreds of 
millions of people.”
O’Leary said “Ryanair is pleased to sign this record aircraft order for up to 300 MAX 10s with our aircraft partner 
Boeing. These new, fuel efficient, greener technology aircraft offer 21 per cent more seats, burn 20 per cent less 
fuel and are 50 per cent quieter than our B737-NGs.”
“This order, coupled with our remaining Gamechanger deliveries, will create 10,000 new jobs for highly paid 
aviation professionals over the next decade, and these jobs will be generated across all of Europe’s main 
economies where Ryanair is currently the No.1 or No.2 airline.”
He added: “In addition to delivering significant revenue and market growth opportunities across Europe, we expect 
these new larger more efficient aircraft to drive further unit cost savings, which will be passed on to passengers in 
lower air fares. 
Ryanair has deployed a growing fleet of 737 airplanes to bolster the group’s post-pandemic recovery and meet the 
recent surge in travel demand. 
Read more
Ryanair grounded 650 flights in April due to strike chaos despite petition to ‘keep skies open’
                     ‘We had a bit of a bust up’: O’Leary addresses spat                   
Following the announcement, O’Leary addressed Ryanair and Boeing’s scrap at a boisterous press conference, 
alongside Calhoun.
“We had a bit of a bust up about a year ago over pricing, and we had to move somewhat to get this deal done 
today, but I think it’s a bit like a marriage, you know we have occasional rows and occasional splits but we come 
together and kiss and make-up,” he said.
“We are very proud and pleased that the Ryanair-Boeing partnership continues to lead the industry in Europe and 
knocks seven bells out of all our competitors.” 
O’Leary couldn’t resist teasing his competitor, stating on the cost of the deal, “we got screwed by Calhoun again.”
Deliveries of the 737 maxes will start in early 2027, lasting until 2033. Ryanair estimate the deal will grow revenues 
by 20 per cent given the extra seats, with lower fares expected for passengers.
“These new aircraft give us lower cost and we will pass on those lower costs in the form of lower airfares, therefore 
driving up growth. The max 10 I think is going to be the next game-changer,” he said.
Read more
Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers
The post Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 9, 2023
End of Document
Air charge hike is ‘kick in teeth’: Ryanair, British Airways and Easyjet representative slams CAA decision
Air charge hike is ‘kick in teeth’: Ryanair, British Airways and Easyjet 
representative slams CAA decision
Cityam.com
October 26, 2023 Thursday 8:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 415 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Airlines have slammed a decision to raise air traffic control charges as a "kick in the teeth" for 
passengers, who will see air fares rise.
Body
Airlines have slammed a decision by the industry’s regulator to raise air traffic control charges as a “kick in the 
teeth” for passengers, who will see air fares rise as a result.
Carriers pay the National Air Traffic Service (NATs), which operates UK airspace, a regulated per passenger 
charge to fly.
The Civil Aviation Authority said this morning it would allow NATs to bump up charges from by 25 per cent, to an 
average of £2.08 per passenger per flight between 2023 and 2027.
The decision prompted outrage from UK airlines, who are infuriated at NATs following August’s nationwide air traffic 
meltdown which grounded thousands of flights.
Tim Alderslade, chief executive of trade body Airlines UK, which represents carriers including Ryanair, British 
Airways and Easyjet, said “this is yet another kick in the teeth for passengers who have been plagued by issues this 
summer including the August NATS IT failure.”
Aldersdale argued passengers would “inevitably end up footing the bill of millions of pounds for increases that 
simply cannot be justified while it remains unclear what action will be taken to ensure airlines and their customers 
do not see a repeat of this disruption.”
Airlines bosses have described NATs as “unfit for purpose” and called for the resignation of chief Martin Rolfe in the 
wake of the disaster.
Ryanair’s combattive chief Michael O’Leary has described the groups report into the disaster as a “tissue of lies” 
and refuted NATs statement that the failure was a “one in a 15 million” glitch in the network.
Air charge hike is ‘kick in teeth’: Ryanair, British Airways and Easyjet representative slams CAA decision
Aldersdale added: “It is clear that a wider independent review into how NATS is regulated is needed to protect 
passengers and ensure that airlines are not always forced to act as the insurer of last resort and bear millions of 
pounds of costs for failures that are not their fault.”
Andrew Walker, chief economist at the UK Civil Aviation Authority, said the decision would give the investment 
required for NATs to “provide a resilient, high-quality service for passengers and modernise its services, while 
recovering costs from the pandemic.”
Walker argued that the price control “should ensure” the operator provides an “efficient service and value for 
money.
He added: “We also recognise the disruption caused by the technical issue in August and we will consider any 
further regulatory steps as appropriate following the outcome of the Independent Review.” 
Read more
Ryanair’s O’Leary launches tirade against NATS after ’tissue of lies’ on air traffic failure
Load-Date: October 26, 2023
End of Document
Aviation sector continues to bounce back from the pandemic as new aircraft orders hit record
Aviation sector continues to bounce back from the pandemic as new aircraft 
orders hit record
Cityam.com
December 27, 2023 Wednesday 8:08 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 356 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: A combination of soaring demand for travel and supply chain delays saw a record-breaking number of 
aeroplanes on order in November.
Body
A combination of soaring demand for travel and supply chain delays saw a record-breaking backlog of aeroplanes 
on order in November, according to new aviation industry figures.
The global aircraft order backlog reached nearly 15,000 last month, a 354 per cent year-on-year increase and 
marking a fourth consecutive record high, according to the aerospace sector’s UK trade body, the ADS Group. It 
estimates the total value of aircraft on order to be worth around £234bn.
Some 2,657 aircraft orders have been placed so far this year. Single-aisle aircraft accounted for more than 2,000 of 
the total, while 586 wide-body orders have been placed year-to-date.
It comes as one of the busiest years of travel demand on record draws to a close. Airlines raked in enormous profits 
in 2023, as pent-up demand following years of Covid-19 lockdowns drove consumers abroad in droves.
Monster deals include a multi-billion order for 300 Boeing 737 Max jets from Ryanair in May. At the Dubai Airshow 
last month, Airbus signed a provisional deal with Turkish Airlines for 350 planes.
But the aviation sector, including the world’s largest aircraft manufacturers Boeing and Airbus, has struggled to 
keep up with resurgent travel demand amid shortages in the delivery of components, equipment, semiconductors 
and labour.
Guillaume Faury, Airbus’s chief executive, warned in May the crisis would last through to 2024 and many 
throughout the supply chain have pushed a full recovery back to 2025.  European airline executives have said 
continued delivery delays will likely bump up fares for consumers.
Aviation sector continues to bounce back from the pandemic as new aircraft orders hit record
Aimie Stone, chief economist at ADS, said: “While we see record numbers of orders placed and a slight uptick in 
deliveries on 2022 figures, it’s clear that buoyancy in the aerospace sectors requires a continued ramp-up at all 
levels of the supply chain.”
“To secure the long-term advantage of our aerospace industry, worth more than £10.9bn in value add to the UK 
economy in 2022, it is important that challenges to our supply chain are recognized and addressed.”
Read more
Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers
Load-Date: December 27, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air face ‘unignorable’ challenges ahead of crunch results week
Ryanair and Wizz Air face ‘unignorable’ challenges ahead of crunch results 
week
Cityam.com
November 5, 2023 Sunday 1:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 459 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Analysts have warned that the low-cost carriers face "unignorable" challenges ahead of a crunch results 
week, despite booming travel demand.
Body
Low-cost carriers are facing “unignorable” challenges despite this summers travel boom, analysts have warned, 
ahead of a crunch results week.
Ryanair and Wizz Air will report half year results on Monday and Thursday. The period covers a record breaking 
summer season for aviation, which saw airlines net bumper profits as consumers flocked abroad.
Both carriers look set to join the likes of Easyjet and the IAG  in benefitting from strong demand trends in the last 
quarter, with passenger traffic above pre-pandemic levels.
But experts are counselling caution. Airline share prices, including the budget duo’s, have plunged over the last 
month and a number of issues are threatening the post-pandemic party.
Supply chain problems have tempered airlines’ capacity forecasts, while a global oil price spike provoked by conflict 
in the Middle East has bumped up the cost of kerosene-based jet fuels. 
Wizz Air slashed its capacity for the second half of the year by 10 per cent over summer, after issues were 
uncovered with the engines of some of its Airbus aircraft. Ryanair has also trimmed its full-year traffic guidance due 
to Boeing delivery delays.
Yi Zhong, equity research analyst at Alphavalue, said “low-cost carriers are facing unignorable external challenges.”
“Both companies largely rely on on-time aircraft delivery to realize their unparalleled expansion plans and further 
compress their cost base.”
Ryanair and Wizz Air face ‘unignorable’ challenges ahead of crunch results week
Zhong believes Ryanair’s strong fuel hedging strategy will alleviate much of the burden of higher jet fuel costs, but 
Wizz Air has no such luck. 
“The company is in the middle of P&W’s GFC engine issues in addition to comparably weak hedging. Don’t forget 
its positioning and long-term expansion ambitions in the Middle East amidst the current war and geopolitical stress.”
Ruxandra Haradau-Döser, head of european aviation research at HSBC, said “the focus will be on bookings for the 
current quarter, since both airlines indicated in previous statements lower booking levels for November and 
December than some of the competitors.”
“Traffic in Europe has now recovered to almost pre-covid levels with leisure traffic in our view above 2019 levels. 
Therefore, we expect traffic growth rates to significantly slow down next year with leisure traffic stabilizing at the 
level of this year,” she explained.
Haradau-Döser expects European-wide capacities to develop “largely in-line with demand” amid supply chain 
issues and pilot shortages, with passenger yields stabilizing at the “current high level next year.”
“However, for airlines that plan further aggressive capacity growth, we cannot exclude some yield pressure during 
seasonally weaker demand periods of the year.”
Read more
Airline shares have started to slide – is this the end of the great rebound?
Load-Date: November 5, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair chief O’Leary slams EU inaction over French air traffic control strikes
Ryanair chief O’Leary slams EU inaction over French air traffic control 
strikes
Cityam.com
July 24, 2023 Monday 12:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 495 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has hit out at the European Commission this morning over its handling of 
strike action by staff at French air traffic control, describing it as a “shambles.” Following Ryanair’s first quarter 
results, O’Leary told analysts on a conference call that the continuing failure of the commission to take action to 
address [...]
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has hit out at the European Commission this morning over its handling of strike 
action by staff at French air traffic control, describing it as a “shambles.”
Following Ryanair’s first quarter results, O’Leary told analysts on a conference call that the continuing failure of the 
commission to take action to address the air traffic control (ATC) strikes was “inexplicable,” but is “exactly what 
you’d expect from anything run by European governments and by the European Commission.”
French strikes, which began as a result of Macron’s pension age reforms, have already affected 60 days of flying so 
far this year and hit a slew of major airlines across Europe.
“We have long complained about the 60 days French ATC strike and the European Commission continues to sit on 
its hands doing nothing,” O’Leary said.
Ryanair, who claim the dispute has forced it to cancel over 4,000 flights, is calling for protection of flights passing 
through French airspace, so that non-French passengers won’t face cancellations.
In an attack typical of the budget airlines’ combative chief, O’Leary slammed commission president Ursula Von Der 
Leyen for “fobbing off” his correspondence, adding that he wasn’t holding out “any great hope” she was “going to do 
anything useful other than sitting around doing nothing.” 
“Nothing is being done for Europe. The minimum we’re calling for is protection of overflights during French ATC 
strikes and that hasn’t been delivered. Most of the ATC providers… are short staffed inexplicably, and are incapable 
of providing the staffing that’s necessary,” he said. 
Ryanair chief O’Leary slams EU inaction over French air traffic control strikes
The strikes have caused chaos throughout Europe, with low-cost favourite Easyjet recently cancelling 1700 flights 
for the summer, citing airspace restrictions due to the ATC feud and war in Ukraine. 
Piling yet more misery on holidaymakers, Europe’s airspace coordinator Eurocontrol recently warned that air traffic 
control across the continent would be overloaded at key locations, with further strikes in the next six months a 
distinct possibility.
This, coupled with recently announced industrial action at Gatwick, has provoked fears in Britain of a repeat of last 
summer’s travel chaos. 
O’Leary’s comments this morning came after Ryanair announced its first quarter results, which saw its first quarter 
profits fly past pre-pandemic levels to €663m.  
It’s the first hint of its performance ahead of what is being touted as a critical summer period for the aviation sector 
as it looks to recover from the heavy lossesincurred during the pandemic.
Despite soaring profits, the budget carrier’s outlook was more tempered than expected, with issues including 
delivery delays, ATC walk-outs and winter demand highlighted as hurdles for the coming months.
Its shares fell over 3 per cent on the Euronext Dublin exchange following the announcement.
The European Commission was contacted for comment.
Read more
Boeing delays don’t take shine off Ryanair’s post-pandemic takeoff
Load-Date: July 24, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair to compensate travellers for 2018 strikes after Supreme Court appeal dropped
Ryanair to compensate travellers for 2018 strikes after Supreme Court 
appeal dropped
Cityam.com
December 12, 2022 Monday 12:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 269 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair is set to compensate travellers for strikes that took place over four years ago after it dropped a 
UK Supreme Court appeal.  “Ryanair’s decision to discontinue the Supreme Court appeal of the Court of Appeal 
judgement means that affected passengers will now be able to make a claim for compensation,” said Paul Smith, 
consumer [...]The post Ryanair to compensate travellers for 2018 strikes after Supreme Court appeal dropped 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair is set to compensate travellers for strikes that took place over four years ago after it dropped a UK 
Supreme Court appeal. 
“Ryanair’s decision to discontinue the Supreme Court appeal of the Court of Appeal judgement means that affected 
passengers will now be able to make a claim for compensation,” said Paul Smith, consumer director at the Civil 
Aviation Authority (CAA).
Passengers across Europe and the UK were hit by delays and disruption during the summer of 2018 after pilots and 
cabin crew members walked out in a dispute over pay and conditions. 
Despite calls for compensation, the low-cost carrier refused to pay customers back citing the disruption had been 
caused by “extraordinary circumstances.”
This led to a legal battle with the UK aviation regulator, as the CAA undertook enforcement action against Ryanair. 
The row went through two levels of judgement, the High Court and the Court of Appeal, which reiterated that strike 
action didn’t qualify as an “extraordinary circumstance.”
Nevertheless, Ryanair pressed ahead with its appeal to the Supreme Court until today. 
An airline spokesperson said it had reached the agreement with the CAA at the end of November. 
Ryanair to compensate travellers for 2018 strikes after Supreme Court appeal dropped
“The resolution reached between Ryanair and the CAA is consistent with a recent ruling of the Court of Justice of 
the EU on union-led strikes, ensuring a uniform level of passenger rights across the EU and the UK,” they said.
Read more
Heathrow assures Border Force strikes won’t impact travellers as activity falls
The post Ryanair to compensate travellers for 2018 strikes after Supreme Court appeal dropped  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 12, 2022
End of Document
Plane not train: Cornwall set for further tourist spike as Ryanair launches London-Newquay route
Plane not train: Cornwall set for further tourist spike as Ryanair launches 
London-Newquay route
Cityam.com
January 17, 2023 Tuesday 3:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 311 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Newquay residents are set to complain even further about the hordes of Londoners descending into 
Cornwall after Ryanair announced new services from London Stansted to Newquay.  The low-cost carrier said 
today it will operate three weekly flights to Cornwall as part of its ramped up summer schedule, which also includes 
additional services to Spain and [...]The post Plane not train: Cornwall set for further tourist spike as Ryanair 
launches London-Newquay route appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Newquay residents are set to complain even further about the hordes of Londoners descending into Cornwall after 
Ryanair announced new services from London Stansted to Newquay. 
The low-cost carrier said today it will operate three weekly flights to Cornwall as part of its ramped up summer 
schedule, which also includes additional services to Spain and Germany.
Ryanair has also announced new services to Belfast and Edinburgh as the carrier capitalises on the government’s 
decision to cut air passenger duty (APD) by 50 per cent. 
APD is an excise duty levied per passenger flying both domestically and internationally from the UK. Initially 
announced in October 2021, the halving of APD for domestic travel will take effect from April.
“Ryanair is pleased to bring even more choice to London citizens and visitors for summer ‘23,” said chief executive 
Michael O’Leary. 
“Our schedule has grown 10 per cent on last summer, with 3,000 weekly flights scheduled across 180+ routes.”
According to O’Leary, Prime Minister Rishi Sunak should scrap APD  for all travel if he wants to “grow and drive 
traffic/tourism recovery for the UK.”
A spokesperson for Visit Cornwall, the region’s tourism board, said: “We know that many people in Scotland would 
love to come to Cornwall but are put off by the 8/10 hour car drive or rail journey. This new route now makes 
Plane not train: Cornwall set for further tourist spike as Ryanair launches London-Newquay route
Cornwall only circa two hours away. This will not only develop two way traffic, with Cornish residents visiting 
Scotland and Scottish residents visiting our wonderful region, but will also enable families and friends who are living 
at either end of the nation to share time together.” 
Read more
TUI open to new majority shareholder following resignation of sanctioned Russian billionaire
The post Plane not train: Cornwall set for further tourist spike as Ryanair launches London-Newquay route  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 17, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air numbers rubbish fears of travel slowdown
Ryanair and Wizz Air numbers rubbish fears of travel slowdown
Cityam.com
October 3, 2023 Tuesday 6:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 454 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair and Wizz Air reported strong passenger growth over September, despite fears in the industry of 
a slowdown in demand following this years' summer bonanza.
Body
Ryanair and Wizz Air reported strong passenger growth over September, despite fears in the industry of a 
slowdown in demand following this years’ summer bonanza.
Ryanair saw passenger numbers rise 9 per cent year-on-year to 17.4m, representing a slight dip on Augusts’ record 
18.4m.
Wizz Air meanwhile pipped its rival with a 21 per cent year-on-year jump to just under 5.5m passengers, falling from 
just over 6m in August – typically the busiest month of the year.
Both low-cost carriers maintained strong load factor – the proportion of available seats filled by passengers – at 94 
and 92 per cent respectively.
It comes despite fears in the entire travel industry of an aviation slowdown, as airlines emerge from one of the 
busiest summer seasons on record, which saw many carriers post record profits and smash pre-pandemic levels of 
passenger traffic.
There are quiet concerns within the industry over whether so-called pent-up demand after Covid-19 lockdowns will 
continue to prop up the aviation sector amid high inflation and a cost of living crisis.
Corporate travel, which typically sustains airlines in the latter half of the year has yet to recover to 2019 levels and a 
number of US-based airlines saw cracks in their most recent set of financial results.
Low-cost airline Spirit issued a profit warning in early September, meanwhile JetBlue had already noted a “shift 
away” from domestic travel earlier in August.
Ryanair and Wizz Air numbers rubbish fears of travel slowdown
Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary told the Financial Times in September he remained cautious despite seeing winter 
bookings at 3-4 per cent higher year-on-year and raised concerns over the “state of consumer confidence… you 
have higher interest rates, higher mortgage payments and energy prices.”
Back in July, Heathrow chief executive John Holland-Kaye toldCity A.M.that airlines shouldn’t bank on the insatiable 
demand continuing into the winter months.
“Business was about 34 per cent of our demand in 2019, it’s now down. So it is coming back much more slowly, 
which is sort of what we would have expected. The surprise is that leisure demand is defying gravity and I think we 
all think it’s only a question of time before that starts to slow down,” he said at the time.
But the travel industry has remained resilient thus far. On the Beach Group issued a bullish trading update earlier in 
the year, and said that its winter bookings had risen 26 per cent on 2022.
Disruption in the form of Air Traffic Control (ATC) chaos and industrial action at Heathrow Airport still threatens to 
spoil the party, with half term chaos expected at the UK’s largest airport and staff shortages across Britain’s ATC 
sector still a major concern.
Read more
On the Beach hits record bookings as CEO hails ‘most successful summer’ ever
Load-Date: October 3, 2023
End of Document
Prepare for a Royale rumble on Boxing Day
Prepare for a Royale rumble on Boxing Day
Cityam.com
December 19, 2023 Tuesday 5:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 562 words
Byline: Bill Esdaile
Highlight: FOR AVID racing fans, Christmas Day is not the main event, that comes 24 hours later on Boxing Day 
with the feature race of the Christmas period, and second most important jumps race in the calendar, the King 
George (2.30pm). Kempton Park will be packed to the rafters for the festive spectacle and, looking at [...]
Body
FOR AVID racing fans, Christmas Day is not the main event, that comes 24 hours later on Boxing Day with the 
feature race of the Christmas period, and second most important jumps race in the calendar, the King George 
(2.30pm).
Kempton Park will be packed to the rafters for the festive spectacle and, looking at the fields at this stage, it’s set to 
be a post-Christmas cracker.
The ante-post market is headed by Allaho after Willie Mullins confirmed the four-time Grade One winner would line 
up in the £250,000 contest and, with support building behind him in the market, he’s likely to go off at short odds.
Since winning the 2022 Ryanair and then destroying his rivals in the Punchestown Gold Cup a month later, Allaho 
has only been seen once, when making a winning reappearance at Clonmel in November.
He didn’t have much to beat last time and there has to be a concern that after 561 days off the track prior to that, 
the bounce factor could come into play.
At his current odds of 7/4 I’m keen to steer clear.
Last year’s winner Bravemansgame must be respected, especially as his trainer Paul Nicholls has won this race an 
unprecedented 13 times.
Kempton clearly suits him, as a sharp track where he can make best use of his accurate jumping, but it’s 
disappointing that he has been beaten twice at odds-on already this season.
Prepare for a Royale rumble on Boxing Day
Shishkin looks a big price for a horse of his ability, but he hasn’t had an ideal preparation and who knows if he’ll 
consent to race this time.
At this stage, I’m always hunting for a bit of value and ROYALE PAGAILLE could just be it.
Venetia Williams has her team in red-hot form at the moment, and after winning the Betfair Chase at Haydock last 
month her nine-year-old is sure to be ready for this test.
He finished second behind Bravemansgame in this race last year, but beat that rival comprehensively at Haydock 
last time, so I think there’s plenty of juice in his price of around 10/1.
One thing he could do with is a bit more give in the ground, as he relishes testing conditions, so if there’s some rain 
around before Boxing Day, expect his price to shorten considerably.
The big races come thick and fast after Christmas and next stop is the Welsh Grand National (2.50pm) on 
December 27.
This is always one of the most gruelling races in the calendar, run over 3m6½f at Chepstow and often in heavy 
ground, so having bags of stamina is essential.
Monbeg Genius is the obvious one here and will love conditions, but from a value perspective I’d rather look 
elsewhere.
                     NASSALAM won the trial for this race impressively at the beginning of the month, when seemingly 
relishing the step up in trip and testing conditions.
That was over just shy of three miles, so while there has to be a question about him staying this marathon trip, he is 
still unexposed as a stayer, and this could yet be his game.
I’m willing to chance him each-way at around 10/1.
Chasing Nassalam home last time was WAYFINDER, and this race looks to have always been the target for 
Rebecca Curtis’ runner.
This nine-year-old loves it at Chepstow, with four of his six career wins coming at the Welsh venue, he’ll stay the 
trip and will relish the likely ground, so he looks a massive price at 50/1.
                     POINTERS                   
Royale Pagaille e/w 2.30pm Kempton (Dec 26)
Nassalam e/w 2.50pm Chepstow (Dec 27)
Wayfinder e/w 2.50pm Chepstow (Dec 27)
Load-Date: December 19, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair to buy green aviation fuels from Shell but 2030 target remains unsure
Ryanair to buy green aviation fuels from Shell but 2030 target remains 
unsure
Cityam.com
December 1, 2022 Thursday 12:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 319 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair is set to buy green fuels from Shell between 2025 and 2030 as part of its green push.  The low-
cost carrier today signed a memorandum of understanding, pledging to purchase as much as 360,000 tonnes of 
sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) by the end of the decade. According to Ryanair, the agreement will save up [...]The 
post Ryanair to buy green aviation fuels from Shell but 2030 target remains unsure appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair is set to buy green fuels from Shell between 2025 and 2030 as part of its green push. 
The low-cost carrier today signed a memorandum of understanding, pledging to purchase as much as 360,000 
tonnes of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) by the end of the decade.
According to Ryanair, the agreement will save up to 900,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions – or the equivalent of 70,000 
flights between Dublin and Milan. 
“SAF plays a key role in our Pathway to Net Zero strategy, and also our commitment to a target of 12.5 per cent 
SAF by 2030,” said Ryanair’s sustainability director Thomas Fowler. 
“Today’s agreement with Shell helps Ryanair secure access to circa 20 per cent of this ambitious goal.”
Nevertheless, Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary told journalists the airline’s target could be too ambitious. 
“I’m not sure we’ll get there but by signing up more partnership agreements with Shell, with Neste and with the 
other fuel suppliers, I think that gives us our best chance of maybe getting to 8, maybe 10, maybe 11,” the chief 
executive told reporters. 
The low-cost company has struck previous deals with Finnish biofuel producer Neste as well as Australian oil and 
gas group OMV. 
Ryanair to buy green aviation fuels from Shell but 2030 target remains unsure
“Who knows, hopefully we will get to 12.5 per cent by 2030,” O’Leary added. “But that will not happen unless we 
have a dramatic revolution in supply of production of SAFs and availability at our airports.”
O’Leary also said Christmas bookings were running ahead of pre-pandemic levels, while pricing was up by a low 
double-digit percentage.
The Irish businessman is not the first one to call on increased investment into SAF, as both airline veteran Willie 
Walsh and Rolls-Royce’s boss Warren East  have previously called to ramp up production. 
Read more
TfL to invest £8.1bn into London’s road and rail network
The post Ryanair to buy green aviation fuels from Shell but 2030 target remains unsure  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 1, 2022
End of Document
Latest Boeing 737 MAX defect hit three quarters of fleet, says CFO
Latest Boeing 737 MAX defect hit three quarters of fleet, says CFO
Cityam.com
September 7, 2023 Thursday 3:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 350 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: The latest production snag at Boeing will hit nearly three quarters of its bestselling fleet of 737 MAX 
aircraft, its CFO has said.
Body
The latest production snag at Boeing will hit nearly three quarters of its bestselling fleet of 737 MAX aircraft, its CFO 
has said.
Speaking at an investors conference, Boeing executive Brian West described the impact on the company’s 
inventory as “large”, but said that it would not affect its yearly goal of delivering between 400-450 narrowbody 737s.
“We are not changing that range” he told investors, but added that he now expects it “to be at the lower end.”
Improperly drilled holes in the aft pressure bulkhead of some of Boeing’s iconic 737 MAX planes resulted in yet 
another supply chain defect at the planemaker, it was disclosed in August.
It comes after a year plagued by production glitches involving the aircraft and supplier Spirit Aero Systems, which 
have impacted monthly deliveries at a time when demand for flying is soaring.
In April, an incorrect installation of rear fittings, which attach the plane’s tail to the aircraft body, saw Boeing jet 
deliveries slump to their lowest levels in a year despite stronger demand.
“In terms of our focus with our supplier, it is 100 per cent the most important thing we are working on right now,” 
West said.
“We’ve got literally armies of people from Boeing and the supplier working on this issue and to drive stability in their 
factory and these are frustrating moments for our customers and our teams,” he added.
The repeat problems this year have yet to hit Boeings’ annual delivery forecasts and West was still bullish about the 
companies’ prospects in the long term.
Latest Boeing 737 MAX defect hit three quarters of fleet, says CFO
By the 2025/26 year, the US group is targeting $10bn of free cash flow and 60 deliveries of 737 and 787 planes per 
month and “that remains unchanged,” he told the conference.
Ryanair has previously slammed Boeing for the impact of delivery delays on its passenger numbers, blaming the 
planemaker for a lower annual passenger forecast in its July quarterly results.
The Dublin-based airline submitted a colossal, multibillion order for up to 300 Boeing 737 Max 10 jets in May this 
year.
Read more
Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers
Load-Date: September 7, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair: O’Leary’s contract extended until 2028 as £86m bonus still on cards
Ryanair: O’Leary’s contract extended until 2028 as £86m bonus still on cards
Cityam.com
December 8, 2022 Thursday 11:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 215 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary has seen his contract extended until July 2028, in a deal that could 
make him earn up an extra €100m (£86.3m). Chairman Stan McCarthy said the contract extension was reached 
following “extensive engagement with large shareholders and proxy advisors,” but will still be subjected to 
shareholder approval.  As part of his [...]The post Ryanair: O’Leary’s contract extended until 2028 as £86m bonus 
still on cards appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary has seen his contract extended until July 2028, in a deal that could make him earn 
up an extra €100m (£86.3m).
Chairman Stan McCarthy said the contract extension was reached following “extensive engagement with large 
shareholders and proxy advisors,” but will still be subjected to shareholder approval. 
As part of his 2019 contract, O’Leary was given the option of buying 10 million of Ryanair shares at around €11 per 
share if he increased the company’s annual profit after tax to €2bn – or €21 per share. This would have led to a 
€100m bonus. 
The 2019 terms have now been extended to the summer of 2028 and are dependent on the chief executive 
reaching a €2.2bn profit target.
“If these targets are not achieved then these share options will lapse and Michael O’Leary will receive nothing other 
than his basic salary,” the carrier said in a statement. 
Ryanair’s share are currently up 1.5 per cent to €13.1. 
The chief executive  – who has said numerous times he wasn’t looking to retire – said in September he hoped to 
sign the papers by March, City A.M. reported.
Read more
Ryanair: O’Leary’s contract extended until 2028 as £86m bonus still on cards
On the Beach’s boss to step down as group returns to black for first time
The post Ryanair: O’Leary’s contract extended until 2028 as £86m bonus still on cards  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 8, 2022
End of Document
Flying high: Ryanair breaks another monthly record with 15.7m passengers in October
Flying high: Ryanair breaks another monthly record with 15.7m passengers 
in October
Cityam.com
November 2, 2022 Wednesday 7:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 217 words
Byline: Leah Montebello
Highlight: Ryanair has broken yet another monthly record, with 15.7 million passengers flying during the month of 
October. These figures were a record high for the budget airline, who said they were up 14 per cent on pre-COVID 
levels. The Irish firm has continued to post a steady incline in passenger numbers, with the last few [...]The post 
Flying high: Ryanair breaks another monthly record with 15.7m passengers in October appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has broken yet another monthly record, with 15.7 million passengers flying during the month of October.
These figures were a record high for the budget airline, who said they were up 14 per cent on pre-COVID levels.
The Irish firm has continued to post a steady incline in passenger numbers, with the last few months exceeding the 
busiest summer months before the pandemic struck.
CEO Michael O’Leary told  reporters last month that the world’s surge in inflation rates would help Ryanair’s growth 
as people will start relying more heavily on budget airlines.
“We think recession [and] price inflation is very good for our growth,” chief executive Michael O’Leary told 
journalists in Lisbon. 
European countries have in fact been hit by soaring inflation rates as a result of the war in Ukraine’s impact on 
energy prices as well as a tight labour market. 
“In a recession people become more price sensitive,” O’Leary, who is set to stay at Ryanair’s helm until 2028, 
added.
“They shop in Lidl and Aldi, they spend more on furniture in Ikea and when they want to fly, they fly with Ryanair.”
Read more
Flying high: Ryanair breaks another monthly record with 15.7m passengers in October
National Express boss: UK economic environment ‘catalyst’ for shift to coach travel
The post Flying high: Ryanair breaks another monthly record with 15.7m passengers in October  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 2, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary blames Boeing and Airbus delays for ticket fare rises
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary blames Boeing and Airbus delays for ticket 
fare rises
Cityam.com
November 6, 2023 Monday 12:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 476 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary has blamed delivery delays at Boeing and Airbus for rising air 
fares across Europe.
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has blamed delivery delays at Boeing and Airbus for hiking air fares across 
Europe.
O’Leary told analysts on a conference call that capacity constraints caused by supply chain issues at the 
planemakers would “underpin strong pricing.”
“Even if consumer demand is challenged, there will be less capacity than there was pre-covid and I think the price 
of that capacity will be higher.”
“We’ve certainly seen that amongst the legacy airlines in Europe,” he explained, with Air France-KLM and the IAG 
“materally increasing air fares” in recent years.
The comments from Ryanair’s outgoing chief came after the budget carrier delivered record half-year profits and 
announced its first ever dividend.
The bumper performance was driven by rising ticket fees. Ryanair’s typically dirt cheap air fares jumped just shy of 
a quarter in the six months to October, as it shipped more than 105.4m passengers.
European air fares jumped between 20 to 30 per cent this summer, compared with its pre-pandemic equivalent, 
according to data from the European Union released following a parliamentary question. 
Supply chain snarl-ups and delays have plagued engine makers and the aerospace titans Boeing and Airbus 
throughout this year. 
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary blames Boeing and Airbus delays for ticket fare rises
Both major planemakers have struggled to meet resurgent post-Covid demand for travel, leading to monthlong 
waits for its airline and lessor customers.
Ryanair’s rival Wizz Air has been forced into slashing its capacity by 10 per cent as a result of a production snag at 
its engine provider Pratt and Whitney.
Boeing in particular has drawn criticism for repeat issues with its iconic 737 Max, with a recent defect hitting three 
quarters of its fleet and delaying future deliveries.
Ryanair has jostled with the planemaker over long delivery times in the past, but tensions have cooled since it 
placed a collosal £31.7bn order for 300 Boeing 737 Max 10 jets in May.
O’Leary said he expects “material groundings of competitors capacity through the summer of 2024 and we think 
that would run into 2025… So we see very little prospect of Europe returning to its pre-Covid capacity between 
2024 and 2024.”
“Both Airbus and Boeing are running materially behind because of supply chain challenges. Boeing also with their 
production issues with Spirit and I also think the Pratt and Whitney engine issue is a large and as yet not well 
factored into capacity story for summer 2024.”
Airlines are increasingly opting to rent aircraft from leasing companies to meet demand, causing rates to soar and 
fuelling further price hikes for consumers.
The global airlines body Iata forecast in June that international air fares would keep climbing over the next 10-15 
years, with the cost of transitioning to greener, more expensive fuels a long-term key factor.
Read more
Boeing delays don’t take shine off Ryanair’s post-pandemic takeoff
Load-Date: November 6, 2023
End of Document
UK air traffic control failure leads to delays and cancellations at airports
UK air traffic control failure leads to delays and cancellations at airports
Cityam.com
August 28, 2023 Monday 11:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 503 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Multiple planes have been grounded in the UK today following a "network-wide failure" of the country's 
air traffic control systems.
Body
Multiple planes have been grounded in the UK today following a “network-wide failure” of the country’s air traffic 
control systems. 
The National Air Traffic Service NATS,said in an early afternoon statement : “We are currently experiencing a 
technical issue and have applied traffic flow restrictions to maintain safety. Engineers are working to find and the fix 
the fault.”
By 2:30pm, 271 flights coming into UK airports had been cancelled, around 9 per cent of all arrivals. The data only 
covered cancelled flights, but many services were reporting over eight hour delays which are likely to result in a 
cancellation. 
There looked to be no end in sight until a statement from NATS shortly after 3pm, confirming that the UK was back 
up and running, with the “technical issue” now resolved – although passengers still faced rampant disruption.
Loganair, the Glasgow-based airline, warned customers on X, formally known as Twitter, that flights may be subject 
to delays due to the outage.”
In a statement, the airline said: “There has been a network-wide failure of UK air traffic control computer systems 
this morning.
                     We are currently experiencing a technical issue and have applied traffic flow restrictions to maintain 
safety. We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause. We will publish updates on our website 
here:https://t.co/YJO7NyZKxs — NATS (@NATS) August 28, 2023                      “Although we are hopeful of being 
able to operate most intra-Scotland flights on the basis of local co-ordination and with a minimum of disruption, 
north-south and international flights maybe subject to delays.“If you are flying with us today, please check our 
website for the latest information about your flight before setting off for the airport.”Stuck on tarmac for nearly 2 
UK air traffic control failure leads to delays and cancellations at airports
hours on plane from Sardinia to Gatwick. Pilot has described issue with U.K. air traffic control as ‘unprecedented’. 
Plane full of kids (incl my 6yo), no food available. Estimated arrival so far is 6 hrs after scheduled time. IF we get 
there today— Barbara Serra (@BarbaraGSerra) August 28, 2023
Ryanair and Aer Lingus cancelled a number of flights out of and returning to Dublin Airport over the afternoon.
The Aer Lingus airline said: “Due to a failure of the UK air traffic control flight planning systems, which is outside of 
Aer Lingus’ control, there are severe restrictions on all flights into the UK and flying over UK airspace today.
“We would ask you to check the status of your flight before coming to the airport today as delays and cancellations 
are likely.”
Ryanair said: “Due to another UK ATC failure, Ryanair will be forced to delay/cancel a number of flights to/from the 
UK today, Aug 28.
“All affected passengers will be notified of their options to change flights (free of charge) to another Ryanair flight or 
receive a full refund.” 
                     This is a developing story. More to follow.                   
Read more
Gatwick bank holiday strikes OFF: Brits breathe sigh of relief as disruption averted
Load-Date: August 28, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair remains cautious about future despite record half-year
Ryanair remains cautious about future despite record half-year
Cityam.com
November 7, 2022 Monday 7:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 424 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair has remained cautious about its future despite posting a record half-year performance.  Driven 
by an exceptional summer traffic, the low-cost carrier’s after tax earnings jumped to €1.37bn (£1.20bn) – up from a 
€48m net loss last year. Even though slightly below analysts’ consensus, this was its highest half-year results ever, 
as it surpassed the [...]The post Ryanair remains cautious about future despite record half-year appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has remained cautious about its future despite posting a record half-year performance. 
Driven by an exceptional summer traffic, the low-cost carrier ’s after tax earnings jumped to €1.37bn (£1.20bn) – up 
from a €48m net loss last year. 
Even though slightly below analysts’ consensus, this was its highest half-year results ever, as it surpassed the 
record-making €1.29bn of 2017.
Passenger numbers went up 143 per cent to 95.1 million for the six months ended 30 September, while load factor 
increased by 15 percentage points. 
“We’re going into the second half of the year to December and March operating at 110 per cent to pre-Covid 
capacity [while] all of our competitors are running at less than their pre-Covid capacity,” chief executive Michael 
O’Leary told analysts today.
Over the last few months, Ryanair capitalised on its ability to provide a more reliable service to passengers during 
this summer’s travel chaos, while expanding its network and maintaining lower fares. 
“If that continues, I think we could have a very strong winter,” O’Leary said, while adding that Christmas continued 
to look strong in both passenger volumes and average fare level.
Nevertheless, the carrier remained cautious about future profitability as it was expecting its winter season to be 
loss-making, in the range of between €100m and €200m. 
Ryanair remains cautious about future despite record half-year
“If we get through the winter with a reasonably strong pricing performance and we have no disruptions from Covid 
or Ukraine, then I hope we will be at the lower end of that €200m loss in the second half of the year,” the chief 
executive explained. 
Despite the current socio-economic environment, Ryanair increased its passenger forecasts for the year ending 
March to 168 million travellers, as it now expects to deliver a profit after tax of between €1bn and €1.2bn. 
“This cautious guidance will remain hugely dependent on not suffering adverse events this winter (as we did last, 
which were clearly beyond our control),” Ryanair said in a statement earlier today.
Last year, the Omicron variant as well as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine severely slowed down Ryanair’s post-Covid 
recovery. 
Commenting on the results, interactive investor’s head of investment Victoria Scholar said that, even though winter 
remains a struggle, “Ryanair remains optimistic about next year both in terms of profitability and passenger 
numbers.”
Read more
Home sellers in for a shock as house prices drop across UK and overall growth slows
The post Ryanair remains cautious about future despite record half-year  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 7, 2022
End of Document
London weather: Storm Ciaran brings 90 mph winds tonight as weather forecast shifts
London weather: Storm Ciaran brings 90 mph winds tonight as weather 
forecast shifts
Cityam.com
November 2, 2023 Thursday 3:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 484 words
Byline: Adam Bloodworth
Highlight: Storm Ciaran continues to rip through London this evening - here's what you need to know
Body
Storm Ciaran is set to continue battering parts of London this evening after moving through the country and the 
capital this afternoon.
Today hundreds of schools have been forced to close, thousands have been left without power and winds of over 
100 mph have in some instances taken roofs off houses. 
Major train operators are suggesting people shouldn’t travel into the capital due to expected delays and 
cancellations on trains due to foliage on tracks.
London remains on a yellow weather warning until midnight tonight, when 30mm of rain is likely, with up to 60mm 
possible. After midnight the forecast should improve somewhat but the Met Office stress the importance of regularly 
checking forecast updates throughout the evening.
Experts have been recommending a cautious approach to travel The Fire Brigade said: “Avoid travelling in strong 
winds where possible, and never shelter under trees or by fencing. Powerful winds could cause them to collapse 
and injure you.” 
Met Office deputy chief meteorologist Brent Walker said: “As well as strong winds, there will be heavy rain across 
many parts of the UK.”
Brits have been sharing the extent of the damage done to houses across the nation, particularly in Cornwall where 
much of the worst damage happened.
                     A friend who lives in St Clement, Jersey, finally able to get outside and assess the damage in his 
estate. Scale of damage is shocking. #StormCiaran pic.twitter.com/L41PpHYhlh &mdash; Consumer Carl 
(@CarlWalker7) November 2, 2023                      And some airlines have been forced to abort landings due to the 
London weather: Storm Ciaran brings 90 mph winds tonight as weather forecast shifts
heavy winds caused by Storm Ciaran, such as this Ryanair plane captured earlier today.Amid the disasters the Met 
Office has taken time to remind us that the sun is still shining in Northern Ireland, sharing visuals of the storm 
swirling off the coast of the east coast of England.￿ Take a look at the latest view from space￿ The large swirl of 
cloud associated with #StormCiarán  can be seen just off the east coast of England￿ There plenty of sunshine 
across Northern Ireland and western Scotland though pic.twitter.com/98dxnES5kK &mdash; Met Office 
(@metoffice) November 2, 2023
The Met Office added: “Very strong winds are expected along southern coastal areas of England in particular, 
where gusts of 70 to 80mph are possible, perhaps exceeding 85 mph in a few exposed locations. Further inland, 
gusts could reach up to 50 or 60mph.
“As well as strong winds, there will be heavy rain across many parts of the UK. Much of southern and western 
England, Wales, northeast England and eastern Scotland look to see the wettest conditions between Wednesday 
evening and Friday morning. 20-30 mm of rain is likely to fall quite widely, with 40-60 mm possible over higher 
ground. Some parts of Wales and southwest England may see 80 mm of rain. This rain will fall on already saturated 
ground, bringing the risk of flooding.”
Load-Date: November 2, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair ’s Michael O’Leary to stay until 2028 as airline sorry for ‘mishandling’ press at AGM
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary to stay until 2028 as airline sorry for ‘mishandling’ 
press at AGM
Cityam.com
September 15, 2022 Thursday 11:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 323 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary is in talks to extend his contract until 2028, as the company said sorry 
for “mishandling” the press at its AGM this morning. The chief executive told journalists on Thursday that he was 
hoping to sign the papers by March, subject to agreement on terms.  O’Leary also apologised after reporters were 
[...]The post Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary to stay until 2028 as airline sorry for ‘mishandling’ press at AGM appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary is in talks to extend his contract until 2028, as the company said sorry for 
“mishandling” the press at its AGM this morning. 
The chief executive told journalists on Thursday that he was hoping to sign the papers by March, subject to 
agreement on terms. 
O’Leary also apologised after reporters were blocked from attending today’s Ryanair annual general meeting but 
reiterated the ban for John Mulligan from the Irish Independent.
Journalists attending the conference, which is usually open to the press, were instead escorted to a media room for 
a post-AGM briefing with O’Leary. 
The Ryanair chief executive  said his team had “mishandled” the situation and promised a more detailed 
explanation later on. 
During his briefing, the executive said all resolutions on the table had been approved, including the airliner’s annual 
accounts and remuneration policy.
O’Leary has been at the low-cost carrier Ryanair’s helm for almost three decades, as he was initially appointed 
Ryanair’s chief executive in 1994. 
He transitioned to group chief executive in 2019 and his contract is set to expire at the end of July 2024. 
Ryanair ’s Michael O’Leary to stay until 2028 as airline sorry for ‘mishandling’ press at AGM
For the year ended 31 March, the CEO’s annual salary amounted to €950,000 – €500,000 basic salary plus a 
€475,000 bonus.
In its latest annual report, Ryanair reported that O’Leary had taken a 50 per cent cut to both his basic annual salary 
for the 2019-2024 period, going down from €1m to €500,000.
Additionally he agreed to cut in half his maximum annual bonus. 
During the pandemic, the Irish businessman took a further voluntary cut to his salary, going down to €250,000 but 
following the restart of operations, he went back to €500,000. 
City A.M. has approached Ryanair for further comment.
Read more
Patagonia’s billionaire founder gives away retailer to protect planet
The post Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary to stay until 2028 as airline sorry for ‘mishandling’ press at AGM  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 15, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair smashes monthly passenger record as Europe jets off for the summer
Ryanair smashes monthly passenger record as Europe jets off for the 
summer
Cityam.com
August 2, 2023 Wednesday 6:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 299 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair and Wizz Air both reported soaring passenger numbers this morning as the record breaking 
summer travel boom continued
Body
Ryanair and Wizz Air both reported soaring passenger numbers this morning as the record breaking summer travel 
boom continued, with the Irish carrier making history by carrying over 18 million guests for the first time in one 
month.
Ryanair’s record breaking month saw its traffic grow 11 per cent from 16.8 million the previous year.
Its rival Wizz Air, meanwhile, carried 6 million passengers, representing a 26.6 per cent increase compared to July 
2022.
Both low-cost carriers also saw strong load factors – the percentage of available seating capacity that has been 
filled with passengers – with Ryanair and Wizz Air seeing 96 per cent and 94.9 per cent respectively.
The results come amid a booming season of travel this summer, which has seen the aviation sector benefit from 
pent-up demand post-pandemic and resilient consumer spending on holidays amid the cost of living crisis.
Airlines have netted bumper profits so far, with Ryanair flying past pre-pandemic profit levels to £572m in the three 
months to June. It did, however, lower its passenger forecast for the rest of the year in the same announcement, 
citing Boeing delivery delays.
Long-haul specialist and British Airways’ owner IAG netted a colossal €1.25bn (£1.07bn) profit later that week, while 
Easyjet has forecast record profits for the rest of the peak season.
Wizz Air is set to report its first quarter results tomorrow. 
Ryanair smashes monthly passenger record as Europe jets off for the summer
Conroy Gaynor, travel, leisure and retail analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence, noted that “fuel prices, albeit volatile, 
look more favourable this year, so along with a planned decrease in non-fuel unit costs, should help Wizz return to 
profit, with the company forecasting €350-€450 million for the year to March.”
Read more
Heathrow boss: Aviation sector can’t bank on soaring demand continuing into winter
Load-Date: August 2, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: Worldwide inflation good for our growth
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: Worldwide inflation good for our growth
Cityam.com
October 25, 2022 Tuesday 4:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 379 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The world’s surge in inflation rates will help Ryanair’s growth as people will not stop flying altogether, but 
will rely instead on budget airlines. “We think recession [and] price inflation is very good for our growth,” chief 
executive Michael O’Leary told journalists today in Lisbon.  European countries have in fact been hit by soaring 
inflation [...]The post Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: Worldwide inflation good for our growth appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The world’s surge in inflation rates will help Ryanair’s growth as people will not stop flying altogether, but will rely 
instead on budget airlines.
“We think recession [and] price inflation is very good for our growth,” chief executive Michael O’Leary told 
journalists today in Lisbon. 
European countries have in fact been hit by soaring inflation rates as a result of the war in Ukraine’s impact on 
energy prices as well as a tight labour market. 
Germany’s consumer prices reached 10.9 per cent in September – the highest in more than 25 years – while the 
UK saw an increase to 10.1 per cent this month. 
“In a recession people become more price sensitive,” O’Leary, who is set to stay at Ryanair’s helm until 2028, 
added.
“They shop in Lidl and Aldi, they spend more on furniture in Ikea and when they want to fly, they fly with Ryanair.”
The low-cost carrier reported that 15.9 million passengers flew aboard its planes in September – the second-busiest 
month ever after August’s 16.9 million travellers.
Numbers are not expected to subside, as in early October Ryanair said it was expecting an increase in air fares “by 
a mid to high single digit figure for the full year” following “surprisingly strong” bookings.
The chief executive also hailed the appointment of Rishi Sunak as UK Prime Minister.
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: Worldwide inflation good for our growth
He told Reuters he was glad the Brexiteer wing of the government was out and that “adults have taken charge 
again.”
“They are getting rid of some of the people who were there, from Boris Johnson to Liz Truss, all the Brexiteer wing 
of the Tory party – they are crazy,” the chief executive commented.
O’Leary called on the newly-appointed PM to agree to a trade deal with the EU. 
“Brexit is done but at least have the best free trade deal you can have,” he said. “Europe is still the UK’s largest 
trading partner.”
The airline stopped trading on the LSE in December last year following concerns over admission fees and post-
Brexit ownership rules. 
Under EU regulation, airlines need to be majority owned by countries within the bloc or with more integrated 
arrangements than the UK to maintain full licensing rights.
Read more
Rail union cancels strike on 3 November due to Poppy Day
The post Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: Worldwide inflation good for our growth  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 25, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair targets record numbers with European market push
Ryanair targets record numbers with European market push
Cityam.com
May 21, 2023 Sunday 4:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 294 words
Byline: Luke Thomas
Highlight: Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary says the company will steal market share from European rivals 
to propel growth, aiming to double passenger numbers to 300m per year within a decade. Speaking to the Financial 
Times, O’Leary said: “I think the thesis that there’s no more growth in Europe, [and that] Europe is completely 
tapped out, [...]The post Ryanair targets record numbers with European market push appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary  says the company will steal market share from European rivals to propel 
growth, aiming to double passenger numbers to 300m per year within a decade.
Speaking to the Financial Times, O’Leary said: “I think the thesis that there’s no more growth in Europe, [and that] 
Europe is completely tapped out, is wrong.
“As long as we don’t do something stupid — which is a daily challenge in this industry — we will continue to wipe 
the floor with every other airline in Europe.”
No airline has yet reached 300m passengers in one year, with industry experts sceptical about unbridled passenger 
growth given a basic lack of demand and broader constraints on the aviation industry through carbon taxes. 
O’Leary recognises a slowdown ahead, predicting Ryanair’s growth will moderate at four to five per cent a year. But 
he sticks to an optimistic forecast for record passenger numbers, coming on the back of this month agreeing a 
$40bn deal with Boeing for 300 new short-haul aircraft.
With 168m passengers expected for the year to the end of March, Ryanair is already the largest carrier  in Europe 
by passenger numbers and thrived post-pandemic by pivoting to lesser tapped Eastern European markets.
Read more
Ryanair places multi-billion Boeing order as airline bets on boosting passenger numbers
Ryanair targets record numbers with European market push
O’Leary has become synonymous with the Ryanair brand, but his contract ends in 2028 and he now focuses on 
strategic oversight of fleet development and funding instead of hands-on management.
“I think in the early days when we were turning this thing around… I was the key man, it depended on me. I made 
all those decisions. 
“It’s too big now,” he said.
The post Ryanair targets record numbers with European market push  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 21, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair’s profits skyrocket to eye-watering £184.9m as low-cost airline cashes in on strong dollar and Asian 
tourists
Ryanair’s profits skyrocket to eye-watering £184.9m as low-cost airline 
cashes in on strong dollar and Asian tourists
Cityam.com
January 30, 2023 Monday 7:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 255 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair has posted its largest third quarter profit after tax for as a boom in demand helped it soar past 
pre-Covid levels. In the three months ending 31 December, the Dublin-based carrier reported a pre-tax profit of 
€211m (£184.9m), up from last year’s loss of €96m.  This was also up on the €88m profit reported [...]The post 
Ryanair’s profits skyrocket to eye-watering £184.9m as low-cost airline cashes in on strong dollar and Asian tourists 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has posted its largest third quarter profit after tax for as a boom in demand helped it soar past pre-Covid 
levels.
In the three months ending 31 December, the Dublin-based carrier reported a pre-tax profit of €211m (£184.9m), up 
from last year’s loss of €96m. 
This was also up on the €88m profit reported in the third quarter of its 2020 financial year. Ryanair added that the 
average fare paid was 14 per cent higher during the same period.
Revenue surged 57 per cent to €2.31bn after passenger levels topped 38.4 million with a load factor of 93 per cent. 
In a statement the airline said: “Ryanair secured strong market share gains in key EU markets as we operated 112 
per cent of our pre-Covid capacity during the first nine months of FY23.” 
“With Asian tourists now returning and a strong dollar encouraging Americans to explore Europe, we’re seeing 
robust demand for Easter and summer 2023 flights.”
Ryanair has maintained its revised guidance of a full-year profit of between €1.32bn and €1.42bn – up from an 
estimate of 1bn to €1.2bn. 
Ryanair’s profits skyrocket to eye-watering £184.9m as low-cost airline cashes in on strong dollar and Asian 
tourists
The results come after rival Easyjet and Wizz Air posted their quarterly results, which showed that low-cost airlines 
appeared to be equipped to weather a macroeconomic environment  plagued by recession fears and higher costs 
of living.
Read more
Sir Nigel Wilson: City grandee to step away after decade of success at Legal and General
The post Ryanair’s profits skyrocket to eye-watering £184.9m as low-cost airline cashes in on strong dollar and 
Asian tourists  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 30, 2023
End of Document
Easyjet, Ryanair and Wizz Air: Have carriers reached the summit of a record rebound?
Easyjet, Ryanair and Wizz Air: Have carriers reached the summit of a record 
rebound?
Cityam.com
October 12, 2023 Thursday 2:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 673 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Airlines have posted record profits throughout the year on soaring demand, but is this peak to be 
followed by a trough?
Body
As expected, Easyjet posted a bullish trading update this morning, treating shareholders by reinstating its dividend 
thanks to record profits in the fourth quarter – but the airline’s share price dropped on the news and some analysts 
questioned whether the trend could continue.
Easyjet said it had swung to a £450m profit in the 12 months to September, up from a loss of £178m the prior year.
That rebound was accompanied by a massive order for 157 Airbus aircraft, as the budget carrier looks to capitalise 
on resurgent demand for travel.
The announcement will likely keep Easyjet’s share price, which is already up over 50 per cent this year , raised for 
some time to come.
Yet shares in Easyjet had fallen five per cent by mid afternoon, as investors fretted over lower-than-expected profit 
guidance and the impact of slower demand through the winter months.
“If you look at the history of airlines, profits are very cyclical and booms tend to be followed in quick succession by 
busts,” Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, toldCity A.M.
The industry is certainly booming right now, as pent-up demand collides with the end of Covid-era restrictions in 
capacity.
Easyjet’s magnificent rally has been reflected across the industry, with rivals Wizz Air and Ryanair both up 36 and 
47 per cent respectively.
Easyjet, Ryanair and Wizz Air: Have carriers reached the summit of a record rebound?
However a number of challenges threaten to derail the jump, and analysts are already speculating that aviation may 
have reached the summit of what has been a record breaking year.
“When airlines feel so flush with cash that they can not only buy more aircraft but pay dividends as well, we’re 
usually a lot closer to the top of the profits cycle than we are the bottom, so it is possible that some investors are 
deciding to check out now, while the going is still good,” Mould noted.
                     “When airlines feel so flush with cash that they can not only buy more aircraft but pay dividends as 
well, we’re usually a lot closer to the top of the profits cycle than we are the bottom, so it is possible that some 
investors are deciding to check out now, while the going is still good”Russ Mould, Investment Director at AJ Bell                   
Investors will be looking keenly at what plans each carrier has to expand capacity, on top of the potential for 
faltering demand into 2024, as the cost-of-living crisis and high interest rates linger.
Easyjets bumper order this morning may quell some concerns, but supply chain and manufacturing issues are 
rampant across the sector.
Wizz Air in September told investors its capacity would be limited by 10 per cent for the second half of the year after 
engine issues in its Airbus SE A320 neo aircraft forced it to ground some planes.
Ryanair has repeatedly hit out at Boeing over delivery delays, despite a monster multi-billion 737 Max order earlier 
in the year. 
And ever present disruption has become a feature of UK aviation this summer, with the sector still reeling from the 
impacts of August’s air traffic control failure at NATs and airspace restrictions in Europe yet to be resolved.
Ruth Griffin, leisure partner at Gowling WLG, said “the ongoing conflict in Ukraine is still causing issues with some 
flights routes and the possibility of further air traffic control strikes in Europe on the horizon gives shareholders a 
reason to be tempered despite the positive performance”.
Griffin added that soaring demand had created intense competition in the sector and that Easyjet would need to 
“continue offering affordable pricing” to capitalise on the return of travel.
Whatever the future holds, it may not be as smooth sailing as many airlines would wish consumers to believe.
“No one is feeling this brave right now, but if any airline executive is ever confident enough to repeat the words of 
then American Airlines’s chief exec Doug Parker in 2017, and assert that an airline will never lose money again, 
then it’s almost certainly time to head for the (emergency) exits,” Mould said.
Read more
Easyjet: Giant brings back dividend but share price falls on lower profit guidance
Load-Date: October 12, 2023
End of Document
Jet fuel costs keep Wizz Air loss making – but optimism about the year ahead
Jet fuel costs keep Wizz Air loss making – but optimism about the year 
ahead
Cityam.com
June 8, 2023 Thursday 6:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 428 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Wizz Air saw its losses remain flat at €466.8m (£401.6m) in its full year results this morning, as soaring 
jet fuel costs kept the budget carrier loss making. Despite this, the Hungary-based airline remained optimistic about 
the year ahead, on the back of a record 88 per cent increase in passenger demand between 2022 and [...]The post 
Jet fuel costs keep Wizz Air loss making – but optimism about the year ahead appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air saw its losses remain flat at €466.8m (£401.6m) in its full year results this morning, as soaring jet fuel 
costs kept the budget carrier loss making.
Despite this, the Hungary-based airline remained optimistic about the year ahead, on the back of a record 88 per 
cent increase in passenger demand between 2022 and 2023 and revenues of €3.9bn (£3.35bn).
József Váradi, chief executive officer, said: “F23 was a year of significant growth for the business, with our key 
operational and financial performance metrics moving in the right direction as we transition into the post-COVID era. 
During the year Wizz Air delivered industry-leading capacity increases.”
“The effects of fuel price increases  and structural capacity issues at airports remained features throughout the 
year, but we are mitigating these through decisive actions which helped to improve ex-fuel cost performance.”
Varadi added: “The company’s net profit is expected to be in a range between €350 and €450 million in F24, 
subject to the absence of adverse exogenous events such as an incremental impact from the war in Ukraine, 
delivery delays, or similar.”
Analysts had been anticipating big losses for the low-cost carrier, on the back of last year’s record jet-fuel costs, 
which rose north of 60 per cent.
Wizz Air previously adopted a no hedge policy, which it backtracked on in July last year, after Russia’s war pushed 
fuel costs to record levels. It said today that the group was “severely impacted” by this strategy.
Jet fuel costs keep Wizz Air loss making – but optimism about the year ahead
However, an expected boom in summer bookings and a sharp decline in the price of jet fuel has led analysts to 
suggest this could be a turning point for the airline.
Last week, the airline reported a 22.1 per cent year-on-year rise in passenger numbers in its May 2023 traffic 
figures, with its rival Ryanair also hitting similar numbers.
Olly Anibaba, analyst at Third Bridge, said: “Both Wizz Air and Ryanair saw an increase in passenger volumes 
during May, as Europeans continue to prioritize their summer holidays over other forms of discretionary spending.” 
“Our experts say the challenge for ultra-low-cost airlines is finding the capacity to cope with this resurgent demand.”
Wizz Air has faced a number of criticisms over its recent performance and customer service. ASunday Times 
investigation revealed that the carrier owed Brits £5m in unpaid refunds across 881 separate court judgements.
Read more
Hit from rising dollar pushes Wizz Air deeper into the red
The post Jet fuel costs keep Wizz Air loss making – but optimism about the year ahead  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 18, 2023
End of Document
Michael O’Leary slams aviation minister as Ryanair quits ‘waffling and useless’ govt advisory group
Michael O’Leary slams aviation minister as Ryanair quits ‘waffling and 
useless’ govt advisory group
Cityam.com
July 12, 2023 Wednesday 6:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 441 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair pulled out of a key advisory group launched by the UK government to support its aviation 
strategy, slamming the body as a “talking shop” that delivered no real change for passengers or the sector. Michael 
O’Leary, the budget airlines combative CEO, said yesterday that aviation minister Baroness Vere should disband 
the “useless council,” instead [...]
Body
Ryanair pulled out of a key advisory group launched by the UK government to support its aviation strategy, 
slamming the body as a “talking shop” that delivered no real change for passengers or the sector.
Michael O’Leary, the budget airlines combative CEO, said yesterday that aviation minister Baroness Vere should 
disband the “useless council,” instead of wasting her time “holding a quarterly talking shop, at which she promises 
action but delivers none.”
 “Ryanair has better things to do with our time than waste it on her useless and ineffective Aviation Council, and so 
we have written today to Baroness Vere to resign from this council with immediate effect,” he added.
The UK Aviation Council was established in February at the behest of Transport Secretary Mark Harper, in order to 
help the industry overcome hurdles such as sustainability and consumer rights. 
Chaired by Baroness Vere and Gatwick’s Chief Executive Stewart Wingate, the body includes major airline bosses 
from British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and a slew of other industry leaders.
However, in a statement yesterday afternoon, O’Leary claimed “there has been no action, no delivery, and no 
improvement in UK aviation, and the council has become a talking shop for Baroness Vere, Govt bureaucrats and 
the CAA to waffle on about reform while delivering none.”
The budget airline said its concerns had repeatedly been ignored by the minister, with “no action whatsoever over 
the past six months.”
Michael O’Leary slams aviation minister as Ryanair quits ‘waffling and useless’ govt advisory group
Chief among these are requests for improved staffing to mitigate delays caused by ongoing French Air Traffic 
Controller strikes, as well as calls to reduce UK visa costs and improve border control processing times.
The Dublin-headquartered firm also highlighted the Aviation Council’s decision making delays, with the body not set 
to report on reforms aimed at promoting UK airspace “modernisation,” until 2024.
“Ryanair regrettably concludes that this UK Aviation Council is a useless talking shop, which has failed to deliver 
any action or practical measures to improve UK aviation,” the carrier said.
Ryanair and its notorious chief have not held back in criticising government in recent months, with O’Leary 
describing Baroness Vere as “not the brightest sandwich in the picnic basket,” in April.
Of paramount concern to the low-cost carrier is the ongoing impact of French ATC strikes, which have seen Ryanair 
cancel 4,000 flights in 2023 and launch a petition urging EU Commission chief Ursula Von Der Leyen to add 
additional protection for overflights.
The government was contacted for comment.
Read more
Ryanair slams EU chief for ‘ignoring’ a million passengers during French strikes
Load-Date: July 12, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair and pilot union Balpa reach agreement on post-Covid pay restoration
Ryanair and pilot union Balpa reach agreement on post-Covid pay 
restoration
Cityam.com
June 30, 2022 Thursday 10:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 272 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair and UK pilot union Balpa have today reached an agreement on post-Covid pay restoration. 
Ryanair pledged to pay restoration for its UK staff, as it forecasts to grow by 115 per cent on pre-pandemic levels. 
British pilots are also set to receive additional benefits, such as a salary increase, until 2026. “While the recovery 
[...]The post Ryanair and pilot union Balpa reach agreement on post-Covid pay restoration appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair and UK pilot union Balpa have today reached an agreement on post-Covid pay restoration. 
Ryanair pledged to pay restoration for its UK staff, as it forecasts to grow by 115 per cent on pre-pandemic levels. 
British pilots are also set to receive additional benefits, such as a salary increase, until 2026. 
“While the recovery from the impact of the pandemic is still ongoing and our industry faces significant challenges, 
this long-term agreement delivers stability, accelerated pay restoration, future pay increases and other benefit 
improvements for our UK pilots,” said Ryanair’s people director Darrell Hughes. 
“While 100 per cent of our pilots across our European network are covered by 2020 Emergency Agreements, we 
continue to work with our pilots and their unions on new deals, similar to this one concluded with BALPA, and have 
successfully re-negotiated improved long-term agreements with 70 per cent of our pilots, running until 2026 or 2027 
as we prioritise pay restoration.”
The news comes as Ryanair’s staff across Europe joined an EU wave of industrial action and voted in favour of 
going on strike.
Last weekend, cabin crew members in Belgium, Spain and Portugal staged a three-day walkout over pay and 
working conditions, while Spain staff announced it will also be striking today and tomorrow. 
Ryanair and pilot union Balpa reach agreement on post-Covid pay restoration
Ryanair downplayed the strikes’ impact, saying it affected 2 per cent of the 9,000 flights that departed between 24 
and 26 June.
Read more
Travel mayhem to continue throughout the summer, says Ryanair’s boss
The post Ryanair and pilot union Balpa reach agreement on post-Covid pay restoration  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 30, 2022
End of Document
The Notebook: Victoria Scholar on the economy, Ryanair, and Spoons
The Notebook: Victoria Scholar on the economy, Ryanair, and Spoons
Cityam.com
September 5, 2023 Tuesday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 781 words
Byline: Victoria Scholar
Highlight: Do you want the good news or the bad news first? I’ll start with the good.
Body
Do you want the good news or the bad news first? I’ll start with the good. 
UK Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said inflation is on track to halve this year, albeit with a blip this month after petrol 
prices increased. While it is still the highest among the G7, inflation has been retreating from October’s 41-year 
high. Plus, the UK has enjoyed some positive upgrades to its official growth figures – the UK economy was 0.6% 
larger in Q4 2021 versus the same period in 2019, a major upward revision from a prior estimate that the economy 
was 1.2% smaller. That means the economy recovered much faster out of the pandemic than previously believed.
Onto the bad. Over the last two years, elevated inflation and rising interest rates have taken their toll. The CEBR 
estimates the high cost of borrowing will continue to put a major strain on UK companies with around 28,000 
business expected to go insolvent next year. It said there were over 6,700 insolvencies in Britain in the second 
quarter of this year, more than double pandemic era levels when government schemes supported businesses. The 
CEBR also expects the UK to tip into recession with a contraction in the fourth quarter of this year and the first 
quarter of next. 
Given the pain that tighter monetary policy has caused, all eyes are on the Bank of England for clues into the future 
path for interest rates. Money markets expect at least one, possibly two more rate hikes ahead, lifting the bank rate 
to either 5.5% or 5.75%. And while there is a chance the central bank could cut interest rates next year, borrowing 
costs will remain high by historic standards, far from alleviating the burden on businesses and mortgage holders. 
August was the worst month of the year for equities in the UK, the US and Europe amid rising bond yields and 
uncertainty in China. But so far, this month has got off to a more positive start, with hopes this will pave the way for 
a rebound in September. 
                     Fuel to pump up inflation                   
The Notebook: Victoria Scholar on the economy, Ryanair, and Spoons
According to the RAC, a litre of petrol rose by 7p on average in August, the fifth highest monthly increase in 23 
years, while diesel rose by 8p, the sixth highest increase. This was on the back of oil’s recent rally driven by supply 
constraints rather than strengthening demand. Russia announced plans to cut its oil exports last week while Saudi 
Arabia is expected to extend its voluntary output cuts in October. Rising petrol prices add to cost-of-living pressures  
and could make it more challenging to bring inflation back down under control.
                     Making a point with a pint                   
Wetherspoon founder Tim Martin is never shy of making a point, and his latest move to cut prices to what they 
would be if supermarket taxes applied to pubs fits in that category. “The biggest threat to the hospitality industry is 
the vast disparity in tax treatment among pubs, restaurants, and supermarkets. Supermarkets pay zero VAT in 
respect of food sales, whereas pubs and restaurants pay 20 per cent,” he says. He may be unimpressed with 
government, but investors are enjoying the firm’s 60 per cent share price bump this year.
                     Up up and away… unless air traffic control gets in the way                   
Ryanair carried over 18.9 million passengers in August, a new record high, up 11% versus a year ago. It operated 
103 thousand flights during the month with over 350 flights cancelled due to the air traffic control computer failure 
issues over August bank holiday weekend.  Shares in Ryanair have rallied sharply this year, driven by robust post-
covid demand for summer holiday travel and a jump in prices. However the winter could be more challenging as the 
cost-of-living weighs on consumer spending. 
                     Can I quote you on that?                   
                     “A relatively soft landing is still achievable in the UK housing market”                   
                     The rest is podcasts                   
Goalhanger Podcasts, behind the hugely successful The Rest is Politics podcast series, brings us a new show, The 
Rest is Money,  presented by well-known broadcast voices, Steph McGovern and Robert Peston. The pair aim to 
‘decode all the business jargon that you hear on the airwaves and break it down for you, while also reaching back 
into the past to revisit some of the biggest financial events of the last half century – to see if there are any lessons 
we can learn from them today.’ The first episode discusses whether we are in the midst of a ‘slow death’ for the 
British stock market and looks at whether high streets can survive in 2023. 
Victoria Scholar is head of investment at interactive investor
Load-Date: September 5, 2023
End of Document
This year in airlines — profits galore as pent up demand steals the show. But 2024 spells turbulence.
This year in airlines — profits galore as pent up demand steals the show. 
But 2024 spells turbulence.
Cityam.com
December 28, 2023 Thursday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 800 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: It's been a remarkable year for airlines amid record demand for travel. But the sector's overconfidence 
spells trouble for 2024.
Body
It’s been a remarkable 2023 for Europe’s major airlines. 
Travel demand has returned with a vengeance after years of Covid-related torment. Carriers across the board 
cashed in on a historic summer, announcing record profits, bumper dividends and a string of aircraft orders.
So-called ‘pent up demand’ — referring to holidaymakers desire for travel post-lockdown — stole the show despite 
a chaotic summer of disruption, which included a monumental slip-up at the UK’s National Air Traffic Services 
(NATS), European wildfires and continued airspace issues across the continent.
                     Here were the headline-grabbing moments at Britain’s most prominent airlines:                   
                     Ryanair:                     Announced first ever dividend for investors, forecast record annual post-tax profit 
and placed a multi-billion dollar order for 300 Boeing 737 Max jets, burying the hatchet on an 18 month feud with 
the manufacturer.
                     Easyjet:                     Reinstated dividend, ordered 157 Airbus aircraft and posted record profits over 
the busy summer period.
                     British Airways owner the IAG:                      Record profits in two consecutive results, between 
January and October, and a forecast to return to pre-pandemic levels by the end of the year. 
                     TUI:                     Doubling profits despite a major hit from wildfires on the continent. London markets 
are shuddering at the thought of a potential delisting, revealed in its December results.
This year in airlines — profits galore as pent up demand steals the show. But 2024 spells turbulence.
                     Jet2:                     Survived turbulence created by the departure of its long-time chief and founder, 
Philip Meeson. Helped by half-year profits doubling in November.
                     What lies in store in 2024?                   
It says a lot that such a booming year of demand ultimately posed more questions than answers. 
Disruption has been a feature of this year. Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary’s furious tirade against NATS in a 
commons committee hearing summed up the thoughts of the entire sector on the UK’s air traffic system.
Many of the issues were out of airlines’ control. Wildfires, war in the Ukraine and Middle East and air traffic control 
strikes in Europe can’t be legislated for. Aircraft delivery delays at Boeing and Airbus are also largely in the hands 
of the two manufacturers.
But analysts say carriers may be getting overconfident, amid a demand upturn that can’t be relied on forever. 
Shares dipped at a slew of different airlines over the Autumn months, despite a string of positive results, revealing 
investor’s concerns over how long the travel boom will truly last.
The conflicts in Eastern Europe and the Middle East aren’t going away any time soon and will likely keep oil prices 
high into next year. Supply chain issues plaguing the major plane makers have also not been resolved, with 
carrier’s now passing on ticket fare hikes to consumers.
And it remains to be seen whether consumers’ ethereal ‘pent-up demand’ will hold amid higher food, energy and 
mortgage bills.
“If anything, the industry’s biggest enemy may be — as usual — overconfidence. Capacity additions are in the 
pipeline and these fleet expansion plans, coupled with lingering fears of a recession and sticky oil prices, were 
behind the mid-year swoon in airline prices,” Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, toldCity A.M.
“As soon as the industry starts to make anything like a decent profit, new entrants pile in and existing players ladle 
on the capacity – that’s why net margins are still so thin and revenue and profit streams so volatile. Competition is 
just brutal.”
                     “As soon as the industry starts to make anything like a decent profit, new entrants pile in and existing 
players ladle on the capacity – that’s why net margins are still so thin and revenue and profit streams so volatile. 
Competition is just brutal.”Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell                    
The chequered return of corporate and international Asian travellers also poses an industry risk, according to the 
2024 Bloomberg Intelligence airline outlook. “Even if strong leisure demand holds, European airlines’ scope for 
earnings per share upgrades is more limited in 2024 vs a bumper 2023,” the report noted.
That said, trade body the International Air Transport Association (IATA) forecasts a slight increase in net profits to 
$25.7bn in 2024, a prediction its director-general Willie Walsh hailed as a “tribute to aviation’s resilience”.
The sector is famously volatile, with thin profit margins and return on capital. A look at history suggests any boom 
may soon be followed by a bust, but airlines aren’t ready to hear that just yet.
Read more
Profit-pumped Ryanair announces plans for first ever regular dividend
Load-Date: December 28, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair exec blames airports for travel chaos, arguing ‘they had one job to do’
Ryanair exec blames airports for travel chaos, arguing ‘they had one job to 
do’
Cityam.com
July 25, 2022 Monday 11:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 399 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair’s chief financial officer Neil Sorahan has blamed airports for the travel chaos, arguing they only 
had “one job to do.” “The airports themselves, they had one job to do and that was to make sure they have 
sufficient handlers and security staff,” Sorahan told the BBC’s Today programme this morning.  “We managed to 
staff [...]The post Ryanair exec blames airports for travel chaos, arguing ‘they had one job to do’ appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair’s chief financial officer Neil Sorahan has blamed airports for the travel chaos, arguing they only had “one 
job to do.” 
“The airports themselves, they had one job to do and that was to make sure they have sufficient handlers and 
security staff,” Sorahan told the BBC’s Today programme this morning. 
“We managed to staff up for 73 additional aircrafts well in advance and it’s incumbent on the airports to get their 
planning better next year.”
The executive’s comments come as the EU aviation industry was swept by a wave of cancellations, delays and 
overall travel disruption. 
The UK was hit particularly hard due to a combination of post-Covid pent-up demand and labour shortages. 
Heathrow, Britain’s largest airport, was forced to put a daily cap for departing passengers of 100,000 while BA 
slashed its peak season schedule by 18 per cent compared with April forecasts. 
According to Sorahan, the main reason behind the travel mayhem was air traffic disruption across Europe.
“You have to hold air navigation service providers and various governments to account in relation to not staffing up 
appropriately for that,” he added. 
Ryanair exec blames airports for travel chaos, arguing ‘they had one job to do’
Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary on Friday took a jab against the UK Government, asking to implement 
post-Brexit immigration rules with more common sense, City A.M. reported. 
“We have this bizarre situation at the moment that in the UK I can get visas to bring Moroccans to come in and work 
as cabin crew,” he said. 
“But I can’t get visas for Portuguese or Italians or Slovakian youngsters. We just need a bit of more common sense 
and a practical approach to how we implement Brexit.”
Ryanair today posted a £145m first-quarter profit despite travel disruption and the blow dealt by the Ukrainian 
conflict. 
Passenger numbers also rebounded, hitting 45.5m – 9 per cent ahead of pre-pandemic levels.
Nonetheless, the carrier declined to make predictions for the full year due to the “fragile” nature of the market.
“Given our later booking profile, the lack of visibility, volatile oil prices, potential Covid, geopolitical and supply chain 
risks, it is too soon to provide meaningful FY23 PAT guidance at this time,” said O’Leary. 
Read more
Ryanair flies into first profit in years despite merciless Ukraine beating in already ‘fragile’ market
The post Ryanair exec blames airports for travel chaos, arguing ‘they had one job to do’  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 25, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair flies into first profit in years despite merciless Ukraine beating in already ‘fragile’ market
Ryanair flies into first profit in years despite merciless Ukraine beating in 
already ‘fragile’ market
Cityam.com
July 25, 2022 Monday 8:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 462 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Ryanair has swung to a first-quarter profit despite airport disruption and a hit from the Ukraine war, but 
warned that the full-year outlook is unpredictable in a “fragile” market. The Irish airline reported profits after tax of 
£145m for the three months to June 30 against net losses of £233m a year ago as passenger [...]The post Ryanair 
flies into first profit in years despite merciless Ukraine beating in already ‘fragile’ market appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has swung to a first-quarter profit despite airport disruption and a hit from the Ukraine war, but warned that 
the full-year outlook is unpredictable in a “fragile” market.
The Irish airline reported profits after tax of £145m for the three months to June 30 against net losses of £233m a 
year ago as passenger numbers rebounded to 45.m – 9 per cent ahead of pre-Covid levels.
But profits were still “well below” levels seen in the same quarter before the pandemic in spite of the bounceback, 
according to the group.
It said the Ukraine conflict “badly damaged” Easter bookings and fares, which fell 4 per cent against the same 
quarter pre-Covid, although average fares for the summer are higher on a three-year basis by a “low double-digit 
percentage”.
The group also said it is being hampered by “unprecedented” air traffic control and airport handling disruption, but 
hopes to run “almost 100 per cent” of its scheduled flights and minimise delays.
                     Oil prices                   
Ryanair also warned that rocketing oil prices are set to push up its full-year fuel bill, affecting the 20 per cent of its 
fuel costs that have not been secured in advance.
But it said it is “too soon” to give any guidance on full-year profits, given the uncertain market and with passengers 
continuing to book at the last minute.
Ryanair flies into first profit in years despite merciless Ukraine beating in already ‘fragile’ market
Chief executive Michael O’Leary said: “Our business, our schedules and our customers are being disrupted by 
unprecedented air traffic control and airport handling delays, but we remain confident that we can operate almost 
100 per cent of our scheduled flights, while minimising delays and disruptions for our guests and their families.”
He added: “While we remain hopeful that the high rate of vaccinations in Europe will allow the airline and tourism 
industry to fully recover and finally put Covid behind us, we cannot ignore the risk of new Covid variants in autumn 
2022.
“Our experience with Omicron last November, and the Ukraine invasion in February, shows how fragile the air travel 
market remains, and the strength of any recovery will be hugely dependent upon there being no adverse or 
unexpected developments over the remainder of 2022-23.”
Like its rivals, the group has been battling against the threat of strike action from staff over pay after it cut salaries 
during the pandemic, but said it has agreed deals with unions representing more than 80% of its pilots and around 
70% of cabin crews.
“We hope to conclude agreements with the small remaining balance in the near future,” Ryanair added.
Read more
Ryanair boss calls for ‘more common sense’ in implementing post-Brexit immigration rules
The post Ryanair flies into first profit in years despite merciless Ukraine beating in already ‘fragile’ market  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 25, 2022
End of Document
Staff at UK aviation regulator vote to strike in feud over pay
Staff at UK aviation regulator vote to strike in feud over pay
Cityam.com
August 23, 2023 Wednesday 10:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 391 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Workers at the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) have voted overwhelmingly in favour of industrial action in 
a dispute over pay. Members of the Prospect union backed strikes by 2-1 and by almost 9-1 for other forms of 
industrial action. The union said the CAA had refused to provide a “fair” pay rise for this year. Prospect added [...]
Body
Workers at the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) have voted overwhelmingly in favour of industrial action in a dispute 
over pay.
Members of the Prospect union backed strikes by 2-1 and by almost 9-1 for other forms of industrial action.
The union said the CAA had refused to provide a “fair” pay rise for this year.
Prospect added that an internal survey of CAA workers found that two in five are considering leaving the 
organisation because of poor pay and excessive workload.
It was the first time a ballot on industrial action has taken place at the CAA, said Prospect.
Turnout was 65%, well over the required legal threshold.
The timing and nature of industrial action will be decided in due course.
Mike Clancy, general secretary of Prospect, said: “More than a decade of real terms pay cuts have left our 
members at the CAA with no choice but to take industrial action.
“During the initial stages of the pandemic they did their part by taking a pay cut to enable their employer to continue 
to function.
“This show of goodwill has not been returned and inadequate pay levels are having a serious impact on recruitment 
and retention at the CAA.
Staff at UK aviation regulator vote to strike in feud over pay
“The employer can still avert this industrial action by coming back to the table with a meaningful offer that 
addresses the ongoing cost-of-living crisis.
“If they do not do so, then the CAA’s status as a world-class aviation regulator is at risk.”
Rob Bishton, interim chief executive at the Civil Aviation Authority, said: “It is disappointing that some members of 
the Prospect Union have voted in favour of industrial action.
“We recognise the cost-of-living challenges that colleagues face, which is why we’ve already implemented a 5% 
pay rise, along with a further pay increase for many staff in October. This increase also takes account of the 
interests of those who pay our charges and public sector pay policy.
“With a modest proportion of the Civil Aviation Authority’s workforce who are members of Prospect, should there be 
any action by our colleagues, we do not anticipate any disruption to the aviation sector. We continue to engage 
constructively with Prospect.”
The CAA said around 240 employees were members of Prospect – 16% of a total workforce of around 1,500.
                     Press Association – by Alan Jones                   
Read more
Which? calls on CAA to investigate Ryanair’s refund policy
Load-Date: August 23, 2023
End of Document
Travel mayhem to continue throughout the summer, says Ryanair’s boss
Travel mayhem to continue throughout the summer, says Ryanair’s boss
Cityam.com
June 21, 2022 Tuesday 9:49 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 316 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Travel chaos will continue throughout the summer as airports tackle labour shortages, according to 
Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary. The chief executive has warned that passengers will have a “less than satisfactory 
experience” during peak season, especially at large airports. “This problem is going to continue particularly at 
airports like Gatwick and Heathrow right throughout the [...]The post Travel mayhem to continue throughout the 
summer, says Ryanair’s boss appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Travel chaos will continue throughout the summer as airports tackle labour shortages, according to Ryanair’s boss 
Michael O’Leary. 
The chief executive has warned that passengers will have a “less than satisfactory experience” during peak season, 
especially at large airports. 
“This problem is going to continue particularly at airports like Gatwick and Heathrow right throughout the summer,” 
he told Sky News this morning. “It will be worse at weekends and better during the week.”
The chief executive said that, while Ryanair’s experience at Stansted was much better compared with rival airports, 
the airline was not immune to the disruption. 
During the weekend, Ryanair reported that 25 per cent of flights had been delayed because of air traffic control 
issues while another 15 per cent due to queues at airports.
According to O’Leary, the situation was worsened by post-Brexit immigration rules, which do not allow airports to 
hire foreign staff. 
“There are hundreds of thousands of jobs in the UK that frankly British workers don’t want to do,” he continued.
“These problems will not be resolved until we start allowing people in to do the jobs.”
Travel mayhem to continue throughout the summer, says Ryanair’s boss
O’Leary’s comments have come a day after the Treasury’s chief secretary Simon Clarke argued that post-Brexit 
policies were not to blame. 
“I do not accept that this is simply a direct effect from Brexit,” Clarke said. “We will do our part as a government to 
make sure our side of things is right, from issues like passports to border control.”
Gatwick on Friday said it would cut daily flights from more than 900 to 825 and 850 in July and August respectively, 
while Heathrow asked airlines operating from terminals 2 and 3 to cut 10 per cent of flights on Monday.
Read more
Airlines blame ‘shambolic’ government Covid response for travel disruption
The post Travel mayhem to continue throughout the summer, says Ryanair’s boss  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 21, 2022
End of Document
Irish transport minister to speak with Ryanair following airfare criticism
Irish transport minister to speak with Ryanair following airfare criticism
Cityam.com
March 21, 2022 Monday 10:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 202 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ireland's transport minister Eamon Ryan said today he would talk to Ryanair after the low-cost airline 
was accused of hiking prices of flights out of Poland. Larysa Gerasko, Ukraine's ambassador to Ireland, told a 
Dublin EU committee last week that it was "unfortunate" behaviour on the airline's side, especially as Polish airports 
such as Krakow [...]The post Irish transport minister to speak with Ryanair following airfare criticism appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Ireland's transport minister Eamon Ryan said today he would talk to Ryanair after the low-cost airline was accused 
of hiking prices of flights out of Poland. 
Larysa Gerasko, Ukraine's ambassador to Ireland, told a Dublin EU committee last week that it was "unfortunate" 
behaviour on the airline's side, especially as Polish airports such as Krakow have become the way out for 
Ukrainians fleeing the horrors of the war. Ryanair has repeatedly denied the accusations.
"Through the previous Covid crisis, on a number of occasions, they helped us in terms of getting people out of 
difficult places in different ways," Ryan said today. "Let me first of all talk to the ambassador and then I'll talk to 
Ryanair without a doubt."
Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary said in early March the carrier would maintain prices low to help fleeing 
Ukrainians reconnect with friends and families, City A.M. reported. 
"We're keeping our air fares low, we want to play our part as best as we can," O'Leary said during a press 
conference in London.
Read more
Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights
The post Irish transport minister to speak with Ryanair following airfare criticism  appeared first on CityAM. 
Irish transport minister to speak with Ryanair following airfare criticism
Load-Date: March 21, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair reports 15m passengers in May as summer bookings ramp up
Ryanair reports 15m passengers in May as summer bookings ramp up
Cityam.com
May 25, 2022 Wednesday 10:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 231 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair has reported that 15 million passengers travelled aboard its planes in May as summer bookings 
continue to ramp up. According to the low-cost carrier, load factor - the measure of how well an airline fills its seats - 
has gone up to 92 per cent, 1 per cent above April's levels. Load factor is [...]The post Ryanair reports 15m 
passengers in May as summer bookings ramp up appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has reported that 15 million passengers travelled aboard its planes in May as summer bookings continue to 
ramp up. 
According to the low-cost carrier, load factor - the measure of how well an airline fills its seats - has gone up to 92 
per cent, 1 per cent above April's levels. 
Load factor is expected to gradually rise over the summer to reach between 94 and 95 per cent of pre-pandemic 
levels. 
"Bookings over the last number of weeks have continued to strengthen - both the numbers are strengthening and 
average fairs being paid through the summer are rising," chief executive Michael O'Leary told Reuters. 
Earlier this month, O'Leary warned travellers to expect higher fares during the summer because of an increase in 
demand for holiday destinations, especially when it comes to go-to destinations such as Portugal, Spain and Italy. 
"Prices will be up by, I think, in the first quarter, they'll be down on pre-Covid up to June, for the September-quarter 
at the moment, based on about 50 per cent of all bookings, we expect prices will be up high single-digit percent," he 
said on 16 May. 
Ryanair narrowed its yearly losses to £302m, 65 per cent compared to the £867m losses posted in the previous 
financial year.
Read more
Ryanair reports 15m passengers in May as summer bookings ramp up
Ryanair loses legal battle against Condor bailout funding
The post Ryanair reports 15m passengers in May as summer bookings ramp up  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 25, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair chief forecasts price increase after ‘surprisingly strong’ bookings
Ryanair chief forecasts price increase after ‘surprisingly strong’ bookings
Cityam.com
October 13, 2022 Thursday 3:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 282 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair is predicting an increase in prices following “surprisingly strong” bookings, according to chief 
executive Michael O’Leary. O’Leary said that – despite recent forecasts of 3-4 per cent growth – air fares “will rise 
by a mid to high single digit figure for the full year” unless alarming reports on Covid and Ukraine come out. [...]The 
post Ryanair chief forecasts price increase after ‘surprisingly strong’ bookings appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair is predicting an increase in prices following “surprisingly strong” bookings, according to chief executive 
Michael O’Leary.
O’Leary said that – despite recent forecasts of 3-4 per cent growth – air fares “will rise by a mid to high single digit 
figure for the full year” unless alarming reports on Covid and Ukraine come out.
“At the moment they (bookings) are surprisingly strong, we thought they would begin to ease off but actually forward 
bookings into the mid-term and into Christmas are stronger in terms of volume and pricing than they were pre-
Covid,” he told Reuters on Thursday. 
According to the chief executive, demand was sustained by people’s savings that were racked up during the 
pandemic.
“So far everything seems to indicate that people are switching to the lowest cost airline and in all markets that’s 
Ryanair,” he explained. 
Nevertheless, the low-cost carrier expects customers’ pockets to be hit by rising inflation rates and the cost-of-living 
crisis. 
Compared to rivals such as Easyjet – which is set to post a loss for the third consecutive year  – Ryanair is 
confident about the year ahead, predicting growth amidst the volatile environment.
The airliner recently made the headlines when it reported that 15.9 million passengers flew aboard its planes last 
month – making September the second-busiest month ever. 
Ryanair chief forecasts price increase after ‘surprisingly strong’ bookings
The carrier’s load factor also increased, going up 13 per cent on pre-pandemic levels to 94 per cent. 
It expects to carry 166.5 million passengers in the year to the end of March.
Read more
Trevelyan commits to deliver reforms post P&O scandal
The post Ryanair chief forecasts price increase after ‘surprisingly strong’ bookings  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 13, 2022
End of Document
Summer holidays plans? Expect higher ticket prices and endless airport queues, warns Ryanair's boss
Summer holidays plans? Expect higher ticket prices and endless airport 
queues, warns Ryanair's boss
Cityam.com
May 16, 2022 Monday 7:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 351 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary warned this morning that flight prices will be higher this summer 
due to the high demand for European holiday destinations. He told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme earlier today: 
"I think capacity, generally, across the summer will be down 10 per cent, 15 per cent." "Prices will be up by, [...]The 
post Summer holidays plans? Expect higher ticket prices and endless airport queues, warns Ryanair's boss 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary warned this morning that flight prices will be higher this summer due to the 
high demand for European holiday destinations.
He told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme earlier today: "I think capacity, generally, across the summer will be down 
10 per cent, 15 per cent."
"Prices will be up by, I think, in the first quarter, they'll be down on pre-Covid up to June, for the September-quarter 
at the moment, based on about 50% of all bookings, we expect prices will be up high single-digit percent.
                     "It seems to us that there will be higher prices into that peak summer period because there's so much 
demand for the beaches of Europe and those price rises going to continue."Michael O'Leary                   
"I think it's very difficult to predict, we expect Ryanair to operate about 115 per cent of our pre-Covid capacity this 
summer. We're adding new aircraft, new bases, over 700 new routes.
"I think prices will be low next winter. But it's too early to say, there's clearly going to be an economic downturn, 
there's some fear of recession and in a recession the lowest-cost provider, which in the UK and in Europe is 
Ryanair, will do better, but will do better because we can sustain lower prices."
                     Airports this summer                   
O'Leary also said getting through airports will be "challenging" this summer.
Summer holidays plans? Expect higher ticket prices and endless airport queues, warns Ryanair's boss
He said there are "pinch-points" at airports such as Heathrow and Manchester, where he said "too many people" 
have been sacked.
Mr O'Leary added: "We would hope to see those pinch-points eliminated by the end of June in time for the peak 
summer period.
"But there's no doubt getting through airports this summer is going to be challenging and we're encouraging all of 
our customers to show up earlier to allow more time to get through airport security, particularly in Manchester."
Read more
Ryanair narrows losses to £300m and expects to fly back into profitability this financial year
The post Summer holidays plans? Expect higher ticket prices and endless airport queues, warns Ryanair's boss  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 16, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair boss calls for ‘more common sense’ in implementing post-Brexit immigration rules
Ryanair boss calls for ‘more common sense’ in implementing post-Brexit 
immigration rules
Cityam.com
July 22, 2022 Friday 9:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 263 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary has called for “a bit more” of common sense on the government’s side 
when implementing post-Brexit immigration rules. The Irish executive urged transport secretary Grant Shapps to 
allow EU workers to work in the UK and ease the ongoing travel chaos.  “We have this bizarre situation at the 
moment that in [...]The post Ryanair boss calls for ‘more common sense’ in implementing post-Brexit immigration 
rules appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary has called for “a bit more” of common sense on the government’s side when 
implementing post-Brexit immigration rules. 
The Irish executive urged transport secretary Grant Shapps to allow EU workers to work in the UK and ease the 
ongoing travel chaos. 
“We have this bizarre situation at the moment that in the UK I can get visas to bring Moroccans to come in and work 
as cabin crew,” he said. 
“But I can’t get visas for Portuguese or Italians or Slovakian youngsters.
“We just need a bit of more common sense and a practical approach to how we implement Brexit.”
O’Leary’s comments come on the heels of airlines and airports reducing the number of flights to ensure smoother 
operations after a combination of increased passenger demand and labour shortages led to major travel disruption. 
Despite pleas, the government is unlikely to make an exception for the aviation sector, the Telegraph first reported. 
Aviation minister Robert Courts said last month Brexit didn’t contribute to the labour shortages.
Courts argued the lack of workforce was a global issue, affecting the UK as well as continental Europe and the US. 
Ryanair boss calls for ‘more common sense’ in implementing post-Brexit immigration rules
“If there were aviation workers spare on the continent of Europe, you’d expect them to be [working] at Amsterdam’s 
Schiphol Airport and solve the [hub’s disruption] issues but that isn’t happening,” he told the BEIS committee in mid-
June.
Read more
Brexit not cause of travel disruption, says aviation minister
The post Ryanair boss calls for ‘more common sense’ in implementing post-Brexit immigration rules  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 22, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair narrows 2021 loss forecast and increases fuel hedging
Ryanair narrows 2021 loss forecast and increases fuel hedging
Cityam.com
April 4, 2022 Monday 8:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 352 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair announced today it would narrow its loss forecast for the year ended 31 March. The low-cost 
airline said it was expecting net losses to be between 350m and 400m, after previously guiding them between 250m 
and 400m. Just last week, Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary said losses would be near the middle of the 
[...]The post Ryanair narrows 2021 loss forecast and increases fuel hedging appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair announced today it would narrow its loss forecast for the year ended 31 March.
The low-cost airline said it was expecting net losses to be between 350m and 400m, after previously guiding them 
between 250m and 400m. 
Just last week, Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary said losses would be near the middle of the forecast 
range. "We think we'll be somewhere in the middle of that range," he told journalists on Thursday during the Airline 
for Europe conference in Brussels.
The carrier said that last month 11.2 million people had flown aboard its planes, compared to 0.5 million last year 
and 10.9 million in March 2019. 
As for the first time Ryanair carried more passengers than during pre-Covid times, full-year traffic rose to more than 
97 million passengers - in line with previous forecasts but below the 2019 peak of 149 million.
Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Ryanair added it was increasing its fuel hedging to 80 per cent cover for 
2023 - 65 per cent locked at $630 per metric tonne while 15 per cent capped at $775.
To protect itself against a war-induced increase in fuel prices, the airline had previously hedged out 80 per cent of 
its need for the first half of FY23 and 70 per cent for the second half.
Despite the hedging out, Ryanair said in early March the impact on oil prices would cost an additional 50m, which 
could put its recovery in doubt, City A.M. reported. 
Ryanair narrows 2021 loss forecast and increases fuel hedging
"We do have a 20 per cent [to be bought] and that will cost us probably another 50m over the next 12 months, 
which is not a huge amount but it certainly makes the post-Covid recovery much more difficult."
Costs, the company said, are expected to remain robust for the whole of this year and whether the airline would 
report profits for the current financial year depended on traffic recovery and fares. 
"There's a chance but it all depends on pricing," O'Leary said. "I mean, certainly our costs are reasonably robust for 
the next 12 months."
Read more
BrewDog chairman picks row with HR adviser over employee platform
The post Ryanair narrows 2021 loss forecast and increases fuel hedging  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 4, 2022
End of Document
Era of 10 euro budget tickets is officially over, says Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary
Era of 10 euro budget tickets is officially over, says Ryanair boss Michael 
O’Leary
Cityam.com
August 11, 2022 Thursday 6:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 234 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Ryanair’s chief said this morning that the airline’s trademark 10 euro fares will not be seen for a “number 
of years” due to soaring fuel prices. In an interview with BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, Michael O’Leary said he 
expected Ryanair’s average fare to rise by about 10 euros over the next five years, from [...]The post Era of 10 euro 
budget tickets is officially over, says Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair’s chief said this morning that the airline’s trademark 10 euro fares will not be seen for a “number of years” 
due to soaring fuel prices.
In an interview with BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, Michael O’Leary said he expected Ryanair’s average fare to 
rise by about 10 euros over the next five years, from around 40 euros (£33.75) last year to roughly 50 euros by 
2027.
He told the broadcaster: “There’s no doubt that at the lower end of the marketplace, our really cheap promotional 
fares – the one euro fares, the 0.99 euro fares, even the 9.99 euro fares – I think you will not see those fares for the 
next number of years.”
Read more
O’Leary deserves credit for flying Ryanair through the Covid-19 storm
Although the soaring fuel prices which are impacting the airline’s fares are also wreaking havoc on people’s 
disposable incomes, Mr O’Leary is confident the number of customers will remain steady.
Instead, he believes travellers will flock en masse to lower-cost alternatives such as Ryanair and EasyJet.
“We think people will continue to fly frequently,” he said.
Era of 10 euro budget tickets is officially over, says Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary
“But I think people are going to become much more price sensitive and therefore my view of life is that people will 
trade down in their many millions.”
Read more
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
The post Era of 10 euro budget tickets is officially over, says Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 11, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights
Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights
Cityam.com
March 16, 2022 Wednesday 10:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair found itself in hot water today after Larysa Gerasko, the Ukrainian ambassador to Ireland, 
lambasted the low-cost company for increasing flight prices out of Poland. A major refugee route, Poland in recent 
weeks has become a safe haven for Ukrainians fleeing the horrors of the war. "Ryanair raised the prices and it's 
unfortunate, and [...]The post Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair found itself in hot water today after Larysa Gerasko, the Ukrainian ambassador to Ireland, lambasted the 
low-cost company for increasing flight prices out of Poland.
A major refugee route, Poland in recent weeks has become a safe haven for Ukrainians fleeing the horrors of the 
war. 
"Ryanair raised the prices and it's unfortunate, and I'm waiting for a meeting with the Minister for Transport of 
Ireland," Gerako told an Irish parliament's EU Affairs committee yesterday. 
The ambassador - who said she had tried to contact the company last week but to no avail - welcomed the idea of 
charter flights between Warsaw and Dublin.
"We would be very grateful for [charter flights], because it is very difficult to buy tickets from Warsaw or from 
Krakow to Dublin," she added.
Ryanair's apparent hike in prices directly contradicts what chief executive Michael O'Leary told journalists a few 
weeks ago, when he said the airline would maintain prices low to help fleeing Ukrainians reconnect with their loved 
ones.
"We're keeping our air fares low, we want to play our part as best as we can," O'Leary said during a press 
conference in early March.
Read more
Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights
Breaking: Freed Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe to return to UK
The post Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 16, 2022
End of Document
Stansted first UK airport to hit pre-pandemic passenger highs as Europe jets off
Stansted first UK airport to hit pre-pandemic passenger highs as Europe jets 
off
Cityam.com
August 2, 2023 Wednesday 8:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 402 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: London Stansted has become the first major UK airport to achieve above pre-covid passenger numbers 
in any single month since before the pandemic, with this July the third busiest in its history. According to figures 
shared with City A.M. total passenger numbers for the period hit 2.81m, which is 102 per cent of the volumes [...]
Body
London Stansted has become the first major UK airport to achieve above pre-covid passenger numbers in any 
single month since before the pandemic, with this July the third busiest in its history.
According to figures shared withCity A.M. total passenger numbers for the period hit 2.81m, which is 102 per cent of 
the volumes it served in July 2019. 
The Independent first reported that the airport handled an average of 90,322 passengers per day last month, up 
from 88,709 in 2022 and only pipped by August in the two years prior to the pandemic – 2018 and 2019.
It means the northeast London hub has beaten a slew of competition in its post-pandemic recovery, with other 
major hubs such as Heathrow and Gatwick still waiting for that fabled return to normality.
Gareth Powell, London Stansted managing director, toldCity A.M. “This was our busiest July ever, and the third 
busiest month on record at London Stansted. This performance reflects our position as the number one airport in 
the UK for direct flights to Europe, as well as the great value, convenience and service we offer to passengers.”
The busiest day of the month for Stansted was Monday 31st with 96,500 passengers using the airport. This was 
also the busiest day of the year to date, according to the airport.
Spain, Italy and Turkey were the most popular destinations for holidaymakers, with Brits flocking to Dublin, Istanbul 
and Palma De Mallorca  – Stansted’s three most popular city destinations in July.
Powell added: “People are choosing to fly from London Stansted in record numbers thanks to the great value and 
choice we offer, and we are confident this trend will continue across the remainder of the summer.”
Stansted first UK airport to hit pre-pandemic passenger highs as Europe jets off
“Having handled more than 2.8m passengers in July, we are proud to be the first major UK airport to report volumes 
in excess of what we saw in 2019, before the pandemic.
Figures shared withCity A.M.also show a speedy service and strong performance in getting passengers past 
security, with 97 per cent making it through in 15 minutes or less.
It comes during a record breaking summer for airlines, who have seen travel demand skyrocket despite ongoing 
inflation and a challenging macroeconomic backdrop.
Ryanair – a major airline for Stansted – today reported its busiest month in history, carrying 18 million passengers 
across Europe.
Read more
Stansted: London airport reports busiest day of the year as Coronation boosts traffic to 2.4m
Load-Date: August 2, 2023
End of Document
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
Cityam.com
July 26, 2022 Tuesday 6:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 339 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Heathrow’s chief executive has lambasted Ryanair after the airline accused airports of not recruiting 
enough ground handling staff ahead of the peak season. John Holland-Kaye deemed the comments made 
yesterday by the airline’s chief financial officer Neil Sorahan as “ridiculous.” “Ground handling is the responsibility of 
the airline,” the airport’s boss told the PA news [...]The post Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as 
‘ridiculous’ appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Heathrow’s chief executive has lambasted Ryanair after the airline accused airports of not recruiting enough ground 
handling staff ahead of the peak season.
John Holland-Kaye deemed the comments made yesterday by the airline’s chief financial officer Neil Sorahan as 
“ridiculous.”
“Ground handling is the responsibility of the airline,” the airport’s boss told the PA news agency. “So that’s like them 
blaming us because they haven’t got enough pilots.
“They need to take responsibility for their ground handling.”
Holland-Kaye’s remarks have come after Sorahan told the BBC’s Today programme that airlines had “one job to 
do.”
Airport and airline bosses have clashed in recent weeks over lengthy queues and last-minute delays to Brits’ 
holidays abroad.
In a half-year report, Heathrow airport said it had been raising concerns over low handler numbers for nine months, 
after airlines slashed staff levels amid Covid lockdowns.
The airport estimated that airline ground handlers have no more than 70 per cent of pre-pandemic resources. There 
also had been “no increase” in numbers since January, it outlined on Tuesday morning.
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
Heathrow – who introduced a daily cap of 100,000 departing passengers on 11 July – justified its decision, saying it 
will remain in place until airlines increase their levels of ground handler staff.
“Airline ground handler performance has been much more stable since the cap came into effect, and we have seen 
a marked improvement in punctuality and baggage performance,” the airline said.
The airport continues to post heavy losses and said it did not expect there to be any dividends in 2022. 
Its adjusted loss before tax was £321m, down from £787m last year, which it attributed to “higher passenger 
numbers, higher aeronautical charges offset by increased costs.”
Passengers soared from 3.9 million to 26.1 million.
Read more
Gatwick exploits Heathrow’s woes by luring major airlines to shift global flights to its Sussex hub
The post Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair’s profits ‘will rise’ as recession forces passengers to opt for cheaper fares
Ryanair’s profits ‘will rise’ as recession forces passengers to opt for 
cheaper fares
Cityam.com
January 5, 2023 Thursday 8:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 317 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Low-cost airline Ryanair has raised its profit guidance for its full year 2023 to between €1.32bn 
(£1.16bn) and €1.42bn (£1.25bn). This is a 25 per cent boost on its initial range of between €1bn and €1.20bn.  
Analysts at Liberum raised Ryanair’s forecast after a better than expected third quarter; Ryanair carried 11.5 million 
passengers in [...]The post Ryanair’s profits ‘will rise’ as recession forces passengers to opt for cheaper fares 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair has raised its profit guidance for its full year 2023 to between €1.32bn (£1.16bn) and 
€1.42bn (£1.25bn).
This is a 25 per cent boost on its initial range of between €1bn and €1.20bn. 
Analysts at Liberum raised Ryanair’s forecast after a better than expected third quarter; Ryanair carried 11.5 million 
passengers in December , 21 per cent up on last year’s levels. Numbers were also up on November’s 11.2 million 
travellers. 
Read more
2022 worst year for UK car production in decades, but sector hopes to bounce back
Load factor – a key metric used to calculate how full planes are – was at 92 per cent of 2019 levels.
“We increase our target price to €16 from €13 and upgrade our recommendation to Buy from Hold,” Liberum said in 
a note.
Liberum was not the only one to notice Ryanair’s performance, as AJ Bell financial analyst Danni Hewson said 
yesterday the low-cost airline’s passenger performance had “perked up investors ears.”
Ryanair’s profits ‘will rise’ as recession forces passengers to opt for cheaper fares
“After a torrid few years for the travel sector, planes are finally filling up to profitable levels,” Hewson wrote in a note 
on Wednesday. 
“And despite niggling concerns about how the cost-of-living crisis might impact holiday decisions this year, Wizz Air 
and EasyJet have soared to the top of the FTSE 250 gainers today with Jet2 and IAG also enjoying those clear blue 
skies.”
Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary had previously said that the company would grow in a recession, as 
more people shy away from the higher fares put forward by competitors. 
“People in a recession will get much more price sensitive,” O’Leary told journalists in late August.
“We will see a much larger number of people trading down from British Airways and Easyjet.”
Read more
Ryanair passenger levels jump as low-cost carriers weather recession
The post Ryanair’s profits ‘will rise’ as recession forces passengers to opt for cheaper fares  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 5, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair 's boss says summer fares will go up to 10 per cent of 2019 levels
Ryanair's boss says summer fares will go up to 10 per cent of 2019 levels
Cityam.com
April 5, 2022 Tuesday 11:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 272 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair's summer fares are expected to go up between 5 and 10 per cent of 2019 levels, its boss 
Michael O'Leary said this morning. The chief executive said lower capacity and very strong forward bookings have 
already started driving demand up from June onwards. "What we're seeing at the moment is prices are slightly 
lower [...]The post Ryanair's boss says summer fares will go up to 10 per cent of 2019 levels appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair's summer fares are expected to go up between 5 and 10 per cent of 2019 levels, its boss Michael O'Leary 
said this morning. 
The chief executive said lower capacity and very strong forward bookings have already started driving demand up 
from June onwards. 
"What we're seeing at the moment is prices are slightly lower than they were in 2019, pre-Covid, through March, 
April and May," he told the Irish Independent. "They're somewhere between 5 and 10 per cent higher at the 
moment through June, July, August and September.
"I think fares will be up this year in the peak summer months by between 5 and 10 per cent."
O'Leary's comments follow yesterday's announcement that March passenger numbers for the first time topped pre-
Covid levels, City A.M. reported.
The carrier said that last month 11.2 million people had flown aboard its planes, compared to 0.5 million last year 
and 10.9 million in March 2019. Load factor was around 87 per cent, in line with O'Leary's forecasts.
The 61-year-old said that while Covid is not entirely behind, Covid scares this summer are not likely to happen. 
"We have been locked up at home for the last two years on Zoom calls. They want to go travel again. Families want 
to go on holidays again," he told the Dublin outlet. 
Ryanair 's boss says summer fares will go up to 10 per cent of 2019 levels
The carrier's guidance for the year hit a turbulence yesterday when Ryanair warned shareholders losses would be 
between 350m and 400m, while previously guiding to a range between 250m and 400m.
Read more
Ryanair narrows 2021 loss forecast and increases fuel hedging
The post Ryanair's boss says summer fares will go up to 10 per cent of 2019 levels  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 5, 2022
End of Document
Sunshine Saturday: Holiday bookings soar as Brits rush to get best deal amid cost-of-living squeeze
Sunshine Saturday: Holiday bookings soar as Brits rush to get best deal 
amid cost-of-living squeeze
Cityam.com
January 5, 2023 Thursday 1:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 256 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Holiday bookings are set to skyrocket this Saturday as thousands of Brits rush to get the best deal amid 
the cost-of-living crisis. Figures published today by tour operator trade body ABTA show 61 per cent of people are 
planning to have a holiday abroad this year. Of those, 31 per cent say they want to [...]The post Sunshine Saturday: 
Holiday bookings soar as Brits rush to get best deal amid cost-of-living squeeze appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Holiday bookings are set to skyrocket this Saturday as thousands of Brits rush to get the best deal amid the cost-of-
living crisis.
Figures published today by tour operator trade body ABTA show 61 per cent of people are planning to have a 
holiday abroad this year.
Of those, 31 per cent say they want to book earlier than normal to get cheaper rates.
“The start of the year usually brings lots of enthusiasm for booking holidays and we know many people will be really 
looking forward to getting away in 2023,” said ABTA’s chief executive Mark Tanzer. 
Dubbed ‘Sunshine Saturday’ by the UK travel sector – the first Saturday after the Christmas break – it is usually the 
most popular day for holiday bookings. 
Read more
The Meal Deal Inflation Index: Tesco, Greggs, Boots and more
This year’s ‘Sunshine Saturday’ will be the busiest in the last three years as travellers capitalise on the lack of Covid 
travel restrictions. 
“People’s appetite for holiday taking has remained remarkably resilient despite the ongoing pressure on people’s 
finances, though there’s definitely a strong focus on securing great value for money,” Tanzer added. 
Sunshine Saturday: Holiday bookings soar as Brits rush to get best deal amid cost-of-living squeeze
The data comes as Ryanair and Wizz Air  have reported a significant uptick in passenger numbers in a sign that 
low-cost carriers are well-equipped to face the recession storm.
Read more
Ryanair’s profits ‘will rise’ as recession forces passengers to opt for cheaper fares
The post Sunshine Saturday: Holiday bookings soar as Brits rush to get best deal amid cost-of-living squeeze  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 6, 2023
End of Document
Zanahiyr to chase home superstar Constitution Hill
Zanahiyr to chase home superstar Constitution Hill
Cityam.com
April 12, 2023 Wednesday 5:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 490 words
Byline: Ed Culham
Highlight: YOU DON’T need me to tell you that the star of the show on Thursday is Constitution Hill, and barring 
one of the biggest shocks in living memory, he will win the William Hill Aintree Hurdle (3.30pm) with ease. His price 
of 1/8 suggests just that and the fact firms are betting on how far [...]The post Zanahiyr to chase home superstar 
Constitution Hill appeared first on CityAM.
Body
YOU DON’T need me to tell you that the star of the show on Thursday is Constitution Hill, and barring one of the 
biggest shocks in living memory, he will win the William Hill Aintree Hurdle (3.30pm) with ease.
His price of 1/8 suggests just that and the fact firms are betting on how far Nicky Henderson’s stable star will win by, 
not if he’ll win, shows the superiority he has over his other five rivals despite this being the first time he’s run over 
2m4f.
While he is certainly not a betting proposition for me at that sort of price, the 9/4 about ZANAHIYR in the ‘without 
the favourite market’ is.
Gordon Elliott’s charge ran really well in the Champion Hurdle last time and the forecast rain will certainly be in his 
favour, particularly over this longer trip of 2m4f.
He’s always been a strong stayer and that asset is why I favour him over Epatante, who is a very speedy mare, so 
the potentially softer ground won’t do her any favours.
Constitution Hill is impossible to oppose and I think he’ll win this with ease, but I thought Zanahiyr was a solid bet to 
follow him home.
The Anniversary 4-Y-O Juvenile Hurdle (2.20pm) looks at the mercy of Zenta, who ran a cracker when third in the 
Triumph Hurdle at Cheltenham on just her second start for Willie Mullins.
She will likely build on that here and gets weight from most of her rivals too, but I slightly prefer BO ZENITH at the 
prices.
Zanahiyr to chase home superstar Constitution Hill
Gary Moore’s charge fluffed his lines on his UK debut at Sandown, but has been much better on his two 
subsequent starts at Haydock and Stratford and he looks a nice prospect moving forward.
He might just be one of those horses that takes a bit more time to come to himself and with the rain in his favour – 
won on very soft ground in France – he looks the play at 11/2.
The best race of the day is undoubtably the Aintree Bowl (2.55pm) and you can make a case for pretty much of all 
of the six-strong field.
Bravemansgame brings the best form into the race, but there have to be question marks whether the hard race he 
had when finishing second in the Gold Cup will have left its mark, while Shishkin’s run in the Ryanair was very hard 
to assess.
Nicky Henderson’s runner could step up again now going over three miles for the first time and will probably win if 
he stays, but I’m going to have a real swing at GA LAW at 40/1.
Granted, he’s got plenty to find on ratings, but he won the Paddy Power Gold Cup back in November in good 
fashion and Aintree is a track that should suit.
He was staying on in the Ryanair at Cheltenham last time, so he should appreciate this step up to three miles and I 
just thought he could easily outrun his odds.
We’ve seen strange results in this race before and I wouldn’t totally rule out another.
                     POINTERS                    
Bo Zenith 2.20pm Aintree
Ga Law 2.55pm Aintree
Zanahiyr (without Constitution Hill) 3.30pm Aintree
The post Zanahiyr to chase home superstar Constitution Hill  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 12, 2023
End of Document
Boeing posts £115m loss but aircraft deliveries pick up speed
Boeing posts £115m loss but aircraft deliveries pick up speed
Cityam.com
July 26, 2023 Wednesday 2:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 349 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Boeing reported a $149m (£115m) net loss in its quarterly results on Wednesday, despite the plane 
maker seeing a rise in revenues on the back of “strong demand” for commercial aircrafts. The aerospace giant saw 
revenues increase to $19.8bn (£16.9bn), up 18 per cent year-on-year, which it said primarily reflected 136 
commercial deliveries. It also [...]
Body
Boeing reported a $149m (£115m) net loss in its quarterly results on Wednesday, despite the plane maker seeing a 
rise in revenues on the back of “strong demand” for commercial aircrafts.
The aerospace giant saw revenues increase to $19.8bn (£16.9bn), up 18 per cent year-on-year, which it said 
primarily reflected 136 commercial deliveries. It also generated an operating cash flow of $2.9bn (£2.24bn) and free 
cash flow of $2.6bn (£2.01bn).
However, this was not enough to offset an overall net loss for the group, which has struggled with higher costs in its 
airline and defence segments.
Boeing CEO Dave Calhoun said it had been a “solid second quarter with improved deliveries and strong cash flow 
generation,” while shares rose four per cent on the announcement.
Calhoun said that on the back of “strong demand” the company was “steadily increasing our production rates 
across key programmes”.
The group said on Wednesday that it would be upping production of its iconic 737 Max plane to 38 per month, up 
from 31 last month.
Calhoun added: “While we have more work ahead, we are making progress in our recovery and driving stability in 
our factories and the supply chain to meet our customer commitments.”
Boeing and its long-term rival Airbus have been pummelled by supply chain issues stemming from the pandemic, 
which have constrained their ability to meet growing demand from carriers.
Boeing posts £115m loss but aircraft deliveries pick up speed
Airbus posted higher than expected operating profits in a late afternoon announcement, on the back of 
The two manufacturers have struggled to keep up with soaring travel demand this year and as a result, have seen 
delays hamper deliveries to a slew of airlines.
On Monday, Ryanair blamed Boeing delivery delays for shrinking its annual passenger capacity forecast despite 
soaring profits and demand.
Last month, boss Calhoun told a conference in Qatar that fixing the supply chain constraints was proving 
“frustratingly slow,” and that the ability of Boeing and Airbus to meet soaring demand would be limited even “five 
years from now.”
Read more
Boeing delays don’t take shine off Ryanair’s post-pandemic takeoff
Load-Date: July 26, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair roasts "NoVax" Novak over vaccine stance
Ryanair roasts "NoVax" Novak over vaccine stance
Cityam.com
February 16, 2022 Wednesday 10:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 219 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Novak Djokovic has taken the heat over his stance on vaccinations from many around the world, but 
yesterday the tennis champion was roasted by none other than low-cost airline Ryanair. "We're not an airline but we 
do fly planes," the company said in a tweet after Djokovic revealed in a BBC interview that he would [...]The post 
Ryanair roasts "NoVax" Novak over vaccine stance appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Novak Djokovic has taken the heat over his stance on vaccinations from many around the world, but yesterday the 
tennis champion was roasted by none other than low-cost airline Ryanair. 
"We're not an airline but we do fly planes," the company said in a tweet after Djokovic revealed in a BBC interview 
that he would skip Wimbledon and the French Open over his decision not to get vaccinated.
In the first interview since his exclusion from the Australian Open, the Serbian tennis player insisted that he's not 
against vaccines but he defends people's right to choose.
                     We're not an airline but we do fly planes #Djokovic pic.twitter.com/ynYkvQu10z &mdash; Ryanair 
(@Ryanair) February 15, 2022
"That is the price that I'm willing to pay," he told the BBC. "Because the principles of decision making on my body 
are more important than any title or anything else. I'm trying to be in tune with my body as much as I possibly can."
Even though Ryanair's tweet was liked by more than 29,700 people, not everyone agreed with the company's 
stance. "Why are you taking a position on this? Bizarre," said one user while another called the jab "cringe".
Read more
Novak Djokovic: I'd rather miss more Grand Slams than be vaccinated
The post Ryanair roasts "NoVax" Novak over vaccine stance  appeared first on CityAM. 
Ryanair roasts "NoVax" Novak over vaccine stance
Load-Date: February 16, 2022
End of Document
British Airways owner IAG pledges to reinstate dividend as travel bounces back
British Airways owner IAG pledges to reinstate dividend as travel bounces 
back
Cityam.com
November 21, 2023 Tuesday 11:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 328 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: British Airways owner IAG has pledged to reinstate its dividend for the first time since the pandemic as 
travel demand soars.
Body
British Airways owner IAG has pledged to reinstate its dividend for the first time since the pandemic, as the post-
pandemic boom in travel refuses to let up.
In a statement this morning, the airline conglomerate said it was committed to dividends once its balance sheet and 
future investment plans are secured.
Outlining its medium-term targets ahead of a capital markets event, the IAG said it expects operating margins of 
between 12 to 15 per cent and maintained its outlook for the fiscal 2023 year.
Chief executive officer Luis Gallego said: “Our transformation and investment plans will drive a step change across 
our businesses, delivering efficiencies and a market-leading customer experience. Executing our strategy will 
enable us to deliver sustainable growth and returns for our shareholders.”
It marks the latest evidence that soaring pent-up demand for travel is not slowing, despite concerns of a cooldown 
over the typically quieter autumnal months.
The IAG reported record-level third-quarter profits in its latest results in October, amid widespread disruption across 
the UK and European airspace. 
Low-cost giant Ryanair announced plans for a maiden dividend in November after netting a record €2.18bn 
(£1.8bn) half-year profit.  Rival Easyjet is also reinstating its dividend off the back of this summer’s travel bonanza.
Despite the positive update, shares in IAG fell nearly two per cent by mid-morning, continuing a trend across the 
sector as investors demand near-perfect results amid concerns over jet fuel costs and fresh conflict in the Middle 
East. 
British Airways owner IAG pledges to reinstate dividend as travel bounces back
A number of airlines, including the IAG, saw share prices fall in October after Hamas’s attack on Israel bumped up 
global oil prices. 
Speakers at the capital markets day will outline the group’s targets, which include €1.5bn in operating profit from its 
Spanish businesses and further growth in its loyalty business. 
Read more
Airline shares have started to slide – is this the end of the great rebound?
Load-Date: November 21, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair passenger levels jump as low-cost carriers weather recession
Ryanair passenger levels jump as low-cost carriers weather recession
Cityam.com
January 4, 2023 Wednesday 6:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 442 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair reported a jump in passenger levels today in a sign that low-cost carriers are managing to 
weather the cost-of-living crisis. Figures published today show that the low-cost airline carried 11.5 million 
passengers in December, 21 per cent up on last year’s levels. Numbers were also up on November’s 11.2 million 
travellers.  Load factor – the [...]The post Ryanair passenger levels jump as low-cost carriers weather recession 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair reported a jump in passenger levels today in a sign that low-cost carriers are managing to weather the 
cost-of-living crisis. 
Figures published today show that the low-cost airline carried 11.5 million passengers in December, 21 per cent up 
on last year’s levels. Numbers were also up on November’s 11.2 million travellers. 
Load factor – the percentage of available seating capacity that has been filled with passengers – also increased by 
11 per cent, going up to 92 per cent of 2019 levels. 
Following a stronger than expected third quarter, the low-cost carrier has raised its profit guidance for the whole 
FY23 to between €1.32bn (£1.16bn) and €1.42bn (£1.25bn).
Ryanair’s share price closed up 2.51 per cent rising to €12.85.
Commenting on the results, aviation analyst Sally Gethin toldCity A.M.the data was not surprising as the Dublin-
listed carrier was on the “fittest airlines going into the pandemic.”
“Ryanair did not haemorrhage crews and pilots like some other airlines, which gave Ryanair a head-start when 
travel returned, and survived the summer chaos intact by operating from smaller regional airports,” Gethin added. 
Danni Hewson, a financial analyst at AJ Bell, said the numbers had “perked up investor ears” despite the passenger 
stats coming in slightly below expectations. 
Ryanair passenger levels jump as low-cost carriers weather recession
“After a torrid few years for the travel sector, planes are finally filling up to profitable levels. And despite niggling 
concerns about how the cost-of-living crisis might impact holiday decisions this year, Wizz Air and EasyJet have 
soared to the top of the FTSE 250 gainers today with Jet2 and IAG also enjoying those clear blue skies,” Hewson 
said. 
Read more
RMT to resume rail strikes talks with government on Monday
Exceptional summer traffic, which reached a 16.9 million peak in August, has driven Ryanair’s €1.37bn (£1.20bn) 
half-year earnings , positioning the low-cost carrier ahead of most of its competitors. 
Chief executive Micheal O’Leary said previously that Ryanair would grow stronger  in a recession, as more people 
shy away from the expensive fares put forward by rivals. 
“People in a recession will get much more price sensitive,” O’Leary told journalists in late August. “We will see a 
much larger number of people trading down from British Airways and Easyjet.”
Ryanair’s passenger data comes after rival low-cost Wizz Air  yesterday reported a 50 per cent increase in 
passenger numbers, carrying 4.18 million travellers over the past month. 
Read more
Airlines ‘extremely disappointed’ by wave of China-targeted Covid restrictions
The post Ryanair passenger levels jump as low-cost carriers weather recession  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 4, 2023
End of Document
O’Leary deserves credit for flying Ryanair through the Covid-19 storm
O’Leary deserves credit for flying Ryanair through the Covid-19 storm
Cityam.com
July 25, 2022 Monday 5:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 350 words
Byline: Andy Silvester
Highlight: Michael O’Leary is not everybody’s cup of Irish tea. But the Ryanair boss would be right to enjoy a 
celebratory cuppa aboard one of his flights (that’ll be €2, fella) as his airline returns to profitability in a summer 
marked by chaotic scenes across Europe at his rivals’ check-in desks. The story of how is [...]The post O’Leary 
deserves credit for flying Ryanair through the Covid-19 storm appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Michael O’Leary is not everybody’s cup of Irish tea. But the Ryanair boss would be right to enjoy a celebratory 
cuppa aboard one of his flights (that’ll be €2, fella) as hisairline returns to profitability  in a summer marked by 
chaotic scenes across Europe at his rivals’ check-in desks.
The story of how is a relatively simple one. In short, Ryanair used a strong balance sheet ahead of the pandemic to 
keep staff on albeit at mutually agreed – or at least mostly mutually agreed – lower rates. The firm kept training 
staff, too. Elsewhere in the industry, faced with an absurd lack of sector-specific help, airports, air traffic control 
providers and other airlines instead cut staff to the bone. 
Lo and behold, as the aviation industry finds high altitude once again, Ryanair have been forced to cancel or delay 
fewer flights and, broadly, get people to the places they paid to go to on time (or at least, Ryanair time). This is 
some achievement and it deserves credit.
O’Leary’s no nonsense persona (even yesterday he couldn’t resist a pop at “idiot Belgian unions”) distracts at times 
from the lean, mean, efficient flying machine he has built.
Read more
Ryanair exec blames airports for travel chaos, arguing ‘they had one job to do’
It is a shame others in the industry haven’t cracked the same trick. Many of the airlines which cut staff during the 
pandemic had in truth already been trying to bring costs into line with the models used by Ryanair and Easyjet, but 
did it – broadly – badly. There is a compelling argument that competing on price was never a good idea, because if 
O’Leary deserves credit for flying Ryanair through the Covid-19 storm
you do that you’re left with only one option: get cheaper. Legacy carriers simply couldn’t do so, and O’Leary won 
every price war that came his way.
Nobody particularly enjoys a Ryanair flight, but this summer at least you can mostly be sure it’ll be there when you 
arrive at the airport.
Though the rest of the industry has not covered itself in glory, O’Leary et al can be content with a summer’s job well 
done.
The post O’Leary deserves credit for flying Ryanair through the Covid-19 storm  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 25, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss
Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss
Cityam.com
January 31, 2022 Monday 7:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 238 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair sees this quarter as 'hugely uncertain' after posting a 96m loss in the three months ended 31 
December. Due to the rise of Omicron and the consequent travel restrictions imposed at the end of the year, the 
low-cost airline saw January capacity cut 33 per cent, while traffic was reduced from 10 million passengers [...]The 
post Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair sees this quarter as 'hugely uncertain' after posting a 96m loss in the three months ended 31 December. 
Due to the rise of Omicron and the consequent travel restrictions imposed at the end of the year, the low-cost airline 
saw January capacity cut 33 per cent, while traffic was reduced from 10 million passengers to between 6 and 7 
million. 
The Omicron-induced slump in bookings is also causing Ryanair to introduce lower prices as a way to quickly 
recover the load factor lost over the holidays. 
"Ryanair's full year traffic forecast remains unchanged at 'just under' 100m passengers, but due to Covid 
uncertainty the FY22 net loss guidance remains within a wider than normal range of 250m to 450m," said the 
group's chief executive Michael O'Leary. 
"This outturn is hugely sensitive to any further positive or negative Covid news flow and so we would caution all 
shareholders to expect further Covid disruptions before we here in Europe and the rest of the world can finally 
declare that the Covid crisis is behind us."
Despite losses, Ryanair registered a huge increase in customers and revenue compared with 2020. Passengers 
grew 286 per cent to 31.1 million while revenue increased to 1.47bn - 331 per cent higher than 2020's 0.34bn. 
Read more
Heathrow trims 2022 revenue forecast following CAA interim airfare price
Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss
The post Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair to return to profit with hopes of flying 165m passengers this year, says boss
Ryanair to return to profit with hopes of flying 165m passengers this year, 
says boss
Cityam.com
January 24, 2022 Monday 2:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 249 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Ryanair's boss expects to return to profit this year, as the Irish airline looks to fly 165m passengers. 
Chief executive Michael O'Leary has forecast carrier occupancy to climb to between 90 per cent and 95 per cent 
this summer. The budget airline will once again be profitable once occupancy reaches 80 per cent, O'Leary told 
[...]The post Ryanair to return to profit with hopes of flying 165m passengers this year, says boss appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair's boss expects to return to profit this year, as the Irish airline looks to fly 165m passengers.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary has forecast carrier occupancy to climb to between 90 per cent and 95 per cent 
this summer.
The budget airline will once again be profitable once occupancy reaches 80 per cent, O'Leary told Spanish 
newspaper Cinco Dias.
Read more
Tourism industry in danger as foreigners stay away
It comes as the government scraps Covid-19 tests  for fully vaccinated travellers, following sustained calls from the 
aviation industry  to dial back curbs.
Ryanair, Europe's largest airline in terms of passenger numbers, flew 130m passengers in the year to 2020.
However, the pandemic and its associated emergency measures meant saw the airline fly just 27m passengers the 
following year.
The recent emergence of the Omicron variant also dented Ryanair's passenger numbers, which sank seven per 
cent  between November and December as fresh travel restrictions were imposed across the continent.
Ryanair to return to profit with hopes of flying 165m passengers this year, says boss
The carrier said the number of passengers dropped to 9.5m last month - the lowest since July and down from 
10.2m in November.
It ran 62,200 flights last month, with a load factor - a measure of how well an airline fills its planes - of 81 per cent, 
down from 86 per cent in November.
Read more
'Britain is back in business': Covid-19 tests for vaccinated travellers scrapped
The post Ryanair to return to profit with hopes of flying 165m passengers this year, says boss  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary: We will grow stronger in a recession
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary: We will grow stronger in a recession
Cityam.com
August 30, 2022 Tuesday 1:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 282 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary said the airline will grow stronger amid the UK’s predicted 
recession. The low-cost airline said that people will not stop travelling altogether but they will shy away from more 
expensive fares put forward by competitors. “People in a recession will get much more price sensitive,” O’Leary told 
reporters today during [...]The post Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary: We will grow stronger in a recession appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary said the airline will grow stronger amid the UK’s predicted recession.
The low-cost airline said that people will not stop travelling altogether  but they will shy away from more expensive 
fares put forward by competitors.
“People in a recession will get much more price sensitive,” O’Leary told reporters today during a press conference.
“We will see a much larger number of people trading down from British Airways and easyJet.”
To monetise on Brits’ appetite for cheap travel, Ryanair announced it was adding 21 routes to its UK winter 
schedule.
“As we continue to grow and add capacity in the UK, our customers have over 440 exciting winter sun, ski and city 
break destinations to choose from,” he said.
Despite the difficult financial backdrop, Ryanair expects to come out on top also because it has hedged out its fuel 
costs until March next year at $64 per barrel, 40 per cent lower than current prices.
Despite the difficult financial situation,  Ryanair will come out on top also because it has hedged out its fuel costs 
until March next year at $64 per barrel. 
According to the aviation executive, Ryanair will remain insulated while the rest of the industry remains behind pre-
pandemic levels, at least until 2025. 
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary: We will grow stronger in a recession
Nevertheless, Ryanair will no longer be able to offer €10 faresdue to hiking oil prices.  
“I do think the €0.99 or €9.99 really cheap fares will probably be gone for the next couple of year while we’re all 
dealing with this kind of much higher oil prices,” he added.
Read more
Ryanair adds one million extra seats to UK winter schedule
The post Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary: We will grow stronger in a recession  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 30, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair urges Belarus to guarantee planes will never be diverted as it prepares for Ukraine ramp up
Ryanair urges Belarus to guarantee planes will never be diverted as it 
prepares for Ukraine ramp up
Cityam.com
January 31, 2022 Monday 1:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 265 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Low-cost carrier Ryanair has urged Belarus to guarantee that it will never divert a plane again, after one 
its planes was forced to land in Minsk in May. "I think it is fundamental to the future of air travel that we do not have 
a repetition of what in my mind was the first case [...]The post Ryanair urges Belarus to guarantee planes will never 
be diverted as it prepares for Ukraine ramp up appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair has urged Belarus to guarantee that it will never divert a plane again, after one its planes 
was forced to land in Minsk in May.
"I think it is fundamental to the future of air travel that we do not have a repetition of what in my mind was the first 
case since the Chicago Convention 1945 of a state sponsored act of international piracy," Ryanair's chief executive 
Michael O'Leary said this morning while commenting on the airline's third quarter results. "There should be no 
overflight of Belarus unless appropriate guarantees are obtained that this won't recur."
O'Leary's comments come on the same day the airline announced it could open a few bases in Ukraine, basing up 
to 20 planes if Russia doesn't invade the country.
"We remain committed to Ukraine. As long as Ukraine is looking westward there are huge flows of people travelling 
to and from Ukraine working in central and eastern Europe," he said. "If it is not invaded by Russia, it is a country 
where we would expect to open a couple of bases some time in the next two or three years subject to agreements 
on costs.
"We hope the situation in Ukraine gets resolved diplomatically. And if it is, it remains a very exciting growth 
opportunity for us."
Ryanair this morning posted 96m worth of losses for the third quarter, as a result of a slump in bookings due to 
Omicron and travel restrictions. 
Read more
Ryanair urges Belarus to guarantee planes will never be diverted as it prepares for Ukraine ramp up
Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss
The post Ryanair urges Belarus to guarantee planes will never be diverted as it prepares for Ukraine ramp up  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
"We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss
"We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss
Cityam.com
March 2, 2022 Wednesday 9:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 324 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair will be the first airline to resume flying to Ukraine once it's safe to do so, said chief executive 
Michael O'Leary. The company, who was forced on Thursday to halt all operations following the Kremlin's invasion, 
expects sanctions will remain for the foreseeable future. "We halted all Ukrainian roots until March," O'Leary said 
this [...]The post "We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair will be the first airline to resume flying to Ukraine once it's safe to do so, said chief executive Michael 
O'Leary.
The company, who was forced on Thursday to halt all operations following the Kremlin's invasion, expects 
sanctions will remain for the foreseeable future.
"We halted all Ukrainian roots until March," O'Leary said this morning during a press conference. "We do not 
believe it will be possible to fly over Ukraine for the foreseeable future."
"We will be the first to return to flying into Ukraine once it's safe to do so but I suspect it will take probably the 
summer or maybe next winter."
O'Leary added that the company is playing its part, keeping fares lower for Ukrainians across Europe to reunite with 
friends and family as well as delivering humanitarian cargo - the first time the airline is carrying something other 
than passengers in 30 years. 
"We're offering to take medical supplies and food aid down to our Polish airports," O'Leary added. "The Poles have 
been phenomenal in the whole Ukrainian crisis as the Polish airport and military are willing to take all those 
humanitarian supplies straight off the belly of the aircraft and to the Ukrainian border."
Even though the conflict dealt a big blow to the airline - who was Ukraine's largest carrier carrying around two 
million passengers a year, Ryanair believes that airspace closures will make people steer clear of long-haul routes 
and go back to European short-haul destinations.
"We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss
"We think long-haul will not be an option and Asia will certainly be much more expensive and harder to get to no-fly 
zones over Russia, Ukraine and Belarus," he added. "We think families and people will return to the beaches of 
Europe - Portugal, Spain and Italy - and we're trying to capitalise on that."
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air shares dip as airlines halt all Ukraine operations
The post "We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 3, 2022
End of Document
‘Brand thieves’: Easyjet’s parent firm takes legal action against UK band Easy Life
‘Brand thieves’: Easyjet’s parent firm takes legal action against UK band 
Easy Life
Cityam.com
October 3, 2023 Tuesday 1:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 400 words
Byline: Jennifer Sieg
Highlight: Easyjet’s parent company Easygroup is suing a Leicestershire band over the use of ‘easy’ in its name. 
The artist called Easy Life has said the airline’s owner is taking legal action against it, with the aviation giant 
insisting it has chased numerous similar cases in the past. Easy Life is a five-member band formed in [...]
Body
Easyjet’s parent company Easygroup is suing a Leicestershire band over the use of ‘easy’ in its name. 
The artist called Easy Life has said the airline’s owner is taking legal action against it, with the aviation giant 
insisting it has chased numerous similar cases in the past.
Easy Life  is a five-member band formed in Leicester and led by lead singer Murray Matravers, and said it found the 
case “hilarious”.
Easygroup, which is a separate company to EasyJet Airline Company Limited, is its largest shareholder with more 
than 15 per cent of the airline, and was the first firm owned by EasyGroup to use the “easy” prefix.
It released a punchy statement addressed to “the brand thief Mr Matravers and his fellow band members who have 
decided to use our brand, Easy Life without permission,” easygroup said.
“We have a long established record of legally stopping thieves from using our brands and I am confident we will 
stop Mr Matravers.” 
This isn’t the first legal action  taken against a brand with the word “easy” in the name, with others including a 
website titled “easyairpark.gr” for an airport/transportation services brand and the “easyway” tourist services brand. 
A spokesperson for Easygroup said that other brands, including catalogue company Easylife, pay annual royalties 
for the use of the brand name. 
‘Brand thieves’: Easyjet’s parent firm takes legal action against UK band Easy Life
“We cannot allow unauthorised third parties to simply use it free, gratis and for nothing. That would be very unfair,” 
they added. 
pic.twitter.com/PzOTu6Mbbl                        — easy life (@easylife) October 2, 2023
The band responded onsocial media  in a statement, saying it “never imagined having to do this but we’ve no 
choice but to address the situation we find ourselves in. 
“As some of you have already discovered, we are being sued. easy jet [sic] are suing us for being called easy life. 
They’re forcing us to change our name or take up a costly legal battle which we could never afford.
“We’ve worked hard to establish our brand and I’m certain in no way have we ever affected their business.”
The group added that “although we find the who situation hilarious, we are virtually powerless against such a 
massive corporation. I don’t really know what else to say, will keep you lot updated.” 
Easyjet’s rival Ryanair  got in on the act on social media, tweeting: “Ryan Gosling prep the cash”.
Read more
Easyjet profit flies on soaring summer demand as pandemic recovery continues
Load-Date: October 3, 2023
End of Document
Airbus earnings soar – but fail to rise above analyst expectations
Airbus earnings soar – but fail to rise above analyst expectations
Cityam.com
November 9, 2023 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 421 words
Byline: City A.M. Reporter
Highlight: Airbus reported higher underlying third-quarter profit on Wednesday and raised its production targets 
going forward.
Body
Airbus reported higher underlying third-quarter profit on Wednesday and raised its production targets going forward. 
The world’s largest planemaker said it was aiming to return to pre-COVID levels of 10 A350 jets a month in 2026, 
up from a previous goal of nine a month by end-2025. Other industrial targets, including 720 jet deliveries in 2023, 
were unchanged.
Adjusted operating earnings came in at €1.01bn (£880m) in the quarter, up 21 per cent, as revenues rose 12 per 
cent to €14.9bn.
Analysts expected earnings of €1.14bn on revenues of €15.1bn, according to a company-compiled consensus.
Airbus said it was seeing strong demand in commercial aircraft, including a continuing rebound in big jets like the 
A350, but expected the supply chain to remain “challenging”.
“Demand for our commercial aircraft is very strong with a continuing recovery in the wide-body market,” Guillaume 
Faury, Airbus’ chief executive officer, said. 
“We expect the supply chain to remain challenging as we progress on the production ramp-up. In that context, we 
maintain our guidance for the full year.”
Production on the company’s main profit-generating programme the Airbus A320 family, is “progressing well” 
towards a previously announced target of 75 a month in 2026, Airbus said. Industry sources say current production 
stands in the low 50s.
It reaffirmed plans for a restructuring in its defence and space division, where it reported new charges of €300m on 
“certain satellite development programmes,” without elaborating. That came after €100m earlier in the year.
Airbus earnings soar – but fail to rise above analyst expectations
Risks remain on costs, reliability and production volumes of the A400M military transporter, Airbus said, with some 
countries reported to be balking at the size of their original orders.
Airbus’s 350 wide-body aircraft has benefited from a revival in long-haul demand, which initially suffered more than 
short-haul following the pandemic. Demand for transatlantic routes in particular has soared in recent months. 
The two major planemakers, Boeing and Airbus have struggled to meet a wider resurgence in demand for travel 
amid supply chain snarl-ups in the aircraft manufacturing process.
On Monday, short-haul specialist Ryanair’s chief executive, Michael O’Leary blamed delivery delays at Boeing and 
Airbus for hiking ticket fares in Europe and constraining airlines’ capacity.
Boeing cut its annual delivery forecast for its iconic 737 Max craft in October amid a production glitch which has hit 
three quarters of its fleet.
Read more
Boeing cuts 737 deliveries amid latest defect
Load-Date: November 9, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair boss says Ukraine operations will continue as long as "there is no war or missiles flying there"
Ryanair boss says Ukraine operations will continue as long as "there is no 
war or missiles flying there"
Cityam.com
February 16, 2022 Wednesday 1:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 275 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair's boss has declared the low-cost airline has a duty to operate in Ukraine and will continue to fly 
as long as "there is no war or missiles flying there". "We see no reason not to continue those flights until we are told 
by European authorities that it is not safe to fly," he said during [...]The post Ryanair boss says Ukraine operations 
will continue as long as "there is no war or missiles flying there" appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair's boss has declared the low-cost airline has a duty to operate in Ukraine and will continue to fly as long as 
"there is no war or missiles flying there". 
"We see no reason not to continue those flights until we are told by European authorities that it is not safe to fly," he 
said during a press conference in Lisbon. 
The carrier announced in January it would open a few bases in the country if Russia decided to desist from 
invading.
"We remain committed to Ukraine. As long as Ukraine is looking westward there are huge flows of people travelling 
to and from Ukraine working in central and eastern Europe," he said on 31 January.
"If it is not invaded by Russia, it is a country where we would expect to open a couple of bases some time in the 
next two or three years subject to agreements on costs. We hope the situation in Ukraine gets resolved 
diplomatically. And if it is, it remains a very exciting growth opportunity for us."
Ryanair is not the only operator to have kept operations going. 
On Monday, Wizz Air announced it had not made any changes to its Ukraine schedule, leaving flights to operate as 
normal, Reuters reported. 
Ryanair boss says Ukraine operations will continue as long as "there is no war or missiles flying there"
"Currently, we have not made any changes to our schedule and all of our flights to/from Ukraine continue to operate 
as normal," the company said in a statement. "All passengers with booked flights to and from Ukraine are advised 
to regularly check their mailboxes for further information about booked flights."
Read more
Going west: Wizz Air applies for US cargo licence
The post Ryanair boss says Ukraine operations will continue as long as "there is no war or missiles flying there"  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 16, 2022
End of Document
Airlines are a victim of their own success in creating unstoppable demand
Airlines are a victim of their own success in creating unstoppable demand
Cityam.com
September 1, 2023 Friday 4:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 693 words
Byline: Sascha O'Sullivan
Highlight: Delays - yes, including those as a result of an erroneous flight plan - are a small price to pay for modern 
airlines.
Body
“Looks like I picked the wrong week to give up drinking”, says Lloyd Bridges’ wizened air traffic controller Steve 
McCroskey in the 1980 disaster satire Airplane. You’d imagine National Air Traffic Services (NATS) chief exec 
Martin Rolfe is probably in need of a stiff drink after this week’s air travel chaos. 
The explanation from NATS, that a single erroneous data entry could lead to the grounding or delaying of 
thousands of flights elicited howls of disapproval from tourists and industry figures alike. An alternative view is that 
the system did precisely what it was meant to do and that delays are a small, though incredibly annoying, price to 
pay for the logistical and engineering miracle that is modern airline safety. We take this for granted, and it’s making 
us complacent about future innovation in air transport.
While the focus for now is on the sometimes heart-rending – and sometimes ludicrous – human drama of missed 
flights and delayed homecomings, the story points to deeper intersecting trends that could cause even greater 
turbulence for the airline industry in years to come. 
The first is the sheer scale of demand for air travel. Heathrow and Gatwick are respectively the busiest dual and 
single runway airports in the world. Even with budget airlines in huge competition, demand continues to grow. 
Remember getting on that super cheap, near empty Ryanair flight any weekend recently? Me neither. While long 
haul and business travel recovery continues to lag, they too are ticking back up. So long as there remains little slack 
in the system, as we saw this week even the smallest of glitches can lead to outsized repercussions. In today’s 
gridlocked skies, when a butterfly flaps its wings in one location, it causes delays and disruptions in another. 
This challenge of capacity runs directly into a second – that of sustainability. While aviation represents a relatively 
small amount of global emissions – 2-3 per cent – that figure is predicted to increase when we need emissions 
across the board to be reduced. As I’ve argued on these pages before, we’ve already plucked most of the low 
Airlines are a victim of their own success in creating unstoppable demand
hanging carbon reducing fruit. An unsustainable increase in air travel is another area of life where we need a more 
pragmatic, grown up conversation about what is responsible and feasible in the coming years. 
What’s to be done? Well, the French are banning short haul flights. This would free up some capacity in the skies 
and reduce emissions. This idea has support among the European public and other continental governments are 
looking at it. You would imagine it’s less likely to take off in the UK – the pushback against ULEZ and low travel 
neighborhoods highlights the political likelihood of that right now. And, unless you’re Dominic Raab, you’ll probably 
be aware that for an island nation this could lead to some big bottlenecks for flows of goods and people in the short 
term. 
Modernisation of our airspace is one step that needs to be accelerated. The current framework was created in 1950 
when, safe to say, there were probably fewer planes about. This would both free up capacity and deliver more fuel 
efficient routes. 
Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) is another. At a Bloomberg Sustainable Business summit recently, Virgin Atlantic 
CEO Shai Weiss was excoriating in his view of the UK government’s failure to launch a domestic SAF industry, 
losing out to investment in other markets leading to likely higher prices for UK carriers. Ceding ground to other 
nations when the breakthrough could happen here seems an own goal.
Taking the long view, we live in a period of relatively low innovation in air travel. Aside from making it cheaper, in 
many other ways we’ve gone backwards. Where’s our Concorde or Jumbo Jet? One hundred years ago people 
were flying about in blimps with much lower environmental impact. To paraphrase J Storr Halls, “Where’s my flying 
car?”. New Net Zero Secretary Claire Coutinho would do worse in taking on her new portfolio than making a couple 
of big bets on air travel innovation. 
For the moment, spare a thought for your columnist, who’s filing this on the train to Stansted. I fear I may need a 
drink.
Load-Date: September 1, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair to refund passengers after public mishaps
Ryanair to refund passengers after public mishaps
Cityam.com
October 28, 2021 Thursday 4:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 310 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair has announced it will start refunding customers of cancelled flights within five working days. Part 
of a company campaignThe post Ryanair to refund passengers after public mishaps appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has announced it will start refunding customers of cancelled flights within five working days. 
Part of a company campaign to improve its image, the measure was set after the Dublin-based carrier held its first 
customer panel meeting in September, when customers all over Europe met with senior management to provide 
recommendations on customer service.
"We are pleased to launch these innovative customer improvements which will enhance the travel experience of our 
guests," said Ryanair's marketing director Dara Brady.
"Driven by customer panel input, these improvements allow our guests to self-serve online when changing flight 
dates or passengers' names, updating contact info or adding bags/seats. For customers who need extra assistance 
they can now track their interactions with Ryanair across calls/email/chat/social and receive live status updates 
online."
When the Covid-19 pandemic struck Europe and air travel was effectively banned, Ryanair was one of a few 
airlines who decided not to refund passengers that could not travel because of Covid-19 restrictions.
The move attracted a lot of criticism and caused the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) to open an 
investigation into the company's practices in June 2021, City A.M. reported.
Coming to the conclusion that the law doesn't provide sufficiently clear right to refund, the competition watchdog 
closed the investigation on 7 October 2021.
Three weeks after the inquiry's end, Ryanair found itself found itself again in hot water when online travel agency 
On the Beach decided to take it to the High Court, the BBC reported.
Ryanair to refund passengers after public mishaps
On the Beach has alleged Ryanair tried to prevent the travel agent from booking seats on behalf of customers, not 
accepting reservations made through the company's credit card .
The post Ryanair to refund passengers after public mishaps  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 28, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair warns passengers against using Kiwi.com's 'fake boarding passes'
Ryanair warns passengers against using Kiwi.com's 'fake boarding passes'
Cityam.com
August 18, 2021 Wednesday 12:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 420 words
Byline: Josh Martin
Highlight: Ryanair has issued a stark warning to summer holidaymakers against using "fake" boarding passes 
issued to them by online travelThe post Ryanair warns passengers against using Kiwi.com's 'fake boarding passes' 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has issued a stark warning to summer holidaymakers against using "fake" boarding passes issued to them 
by online travel agent Kiwi.com.
Passengers that attempt to board using the forms issued by Kiwi will be denied boarding, Ryanair said, adding 
more uncertainty to a chaotic summer of travel.
Kiwi.com responded to the threat saying the airline was stifling competition and the practice of cancelling holidays 
over the matter was "cruel"
The budget carrier today said Kiwi.com circumvents current aviation regulations by issuing its own boarding cards 
to passengers that book through it but they're not valid on Ryanair flights.
Ryanair's director of marketing, Dara Brady, said:"We became aware of these fake boarding passes when a small 
number of passengers who booked their flights through Kiwi.com arrived at the boarding gate without official 
Ryanair Boarding Passes last week. 
"It is an obligation under EU regulations that an airline informs passengers directly of all safety and security policies 
regarding their flight, Kiwi.com are circumventing this by checking passengers in and replacing the Ryanair 
Boarding Pass with a fake Boarding Pass issued by Kiwi.com.
"Any passenger presenting a Kiwi.com Boarding Pass will be refused boarding on Ryanair flights. If you made a 
booking through Kiwi.com we urge you to contact Kiwi.com to obtain the necessary Ryanair booking reference and 
email address so that you can complete check-in in line with our safety and security protocol".
A kiwi.com spokesperson responded by calling the actions "petty".
Ryanair warns passengers against using Kiwi.com's 'fake boarding passes'
"There is no such 'fake' boarding pass - Kiwi.com complies with all the requirements to ensure safe travel for our 
customers and have done so for years. As well as providing customers with the Ryanair boarding pass we have 
also placed it on a Kiwi.com branded background - all the information is the same, just the colours are different. 
"Threatening not to board customers is petty and an evil Ryanair practice to try and stifle customer choice". 
They added: "The real reason for this action is because Kiwi.com often sells Ryanair tickets cheaper than Ryanair 
and they don't like it. Ryanair's behaviour is nothing short of cruel by putting profit ahead of consumer choice. We 
will do everything in our power to support our customers through this despicable behaviour from Ryanair who are 
punishing travellers just because they don't like competition."
The post Ryanair warns passengers against using Kiwi.com's 'fake boarding passes'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 18, 2021
End of Document
Flying the green flag: Ryanair ’s £140m Boeing deal will save airline ’65m litres of fuel’ a year
Flying the green flag: Ryanair’s £140m Boeing deal will save airline ’65m 
litres of fuel’ a year
Cityam.com
January 23, 2023 Monday 1:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 254 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair claimed its $175m (£140m) deal with Boeing’s subsidiary and technology company Aviation 
Partners Boeing will help it make huge cuts to fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Under the agreement, 400 of 
the low-cost airline’s aircraft will be retrofitted with APB’s winglets. Also known as wingtip devices, winglets are 
vertical extensions attached to a plane’s [...]The post Flying the green flag: Ryanair’s £140m Boeing deal will save 
airline ’65m litres of fuel’ a year appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair claimed its $175m (£140m) deal with Boeing’s subsidiary and technology company Aviation Partners 
Boeing will help it make huge cuts to fuel consumption and CO2 emissions.
Under the agreement, 400 of the low-cost airline’s aircraft will be retrofitted with APB’s winglets.
Also known as wingtip devices, winglets are vertical extensions attached to a plane’s wings used to improve fuel 
efficiency as they reduce the aircraft’s aerodynamic drag when it moves through the air. 
According to Ryanair, the winglets will reduce fuel consumption by 65 million litres per year, cutting down on 
165,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. 
Thomas Fowler, director of sustainability at Ryanaire said: “As Europe’s most environmentally efficient major airline, 
we are leading the way in sustainable aviation as demonstrated by this investment in our flee.,” 
“This winglet technology will help us reach our ambitious environmental targets on our pathway to net zero 
emissions by 2050.”
Last month the airline agreed to buy around 360,000 tonnes of sustainable aviation fuels (SAFs) from Shell 
between 2025 and 2030 as part of its commitment to green push.
Derived from the likes of solid waste and food scraps, SAFs are considered the main way towards net-zero as they 
produce 80 per cent less emissions than normal fuel.
Flying the green flag: Ryanair ’s £140m Boeing deal will save airline ’65m litres of fuel’ a year
Read more
British Airways cancels 80 flights TODAY as freezing fog grounds Heathrow airlines
The post Flying the green flag: Ryanair’s £140m Boeing deal will save airline ’65m litres of fuel’ a year  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 23, 2023
End of Document
Airlines getting off scot-free with no fines issued for decades, says Which
Airlines getting off scot-free with no fines issued for decades, says Which
Cityam.com
June 30, 2023 Friday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 696 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Airlines are getting off scot-free from penalties with no fines having been issued due to regulatory action 
in two decades, according to the consumer group Which. Which said Britain’s aviation watchdog – the Civil Aviation 
Authority (CAA) – should be doing more to “name and shame” airlines, withdraw licences and pursue action “in the 
courts” [...]
Body
Airlines are getting off scot-free from penalties with no fines having been issued due to regulatory action in two 
decades, according to the consumer group Which.
Which said Britain’s aviation watchdog – the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) – should be doing more to “name and 
shame” airlines, withdraw licences and pursue action “in the courts” where behaviour has been unlawful.
It follows an announcement from the Department for Transport (DfT) this week that intends on giving the CAA more 
power to fine airlines who break consumer laws.
The group today called on the Prime Minister to “urgently legislate” to make fining powers a reality for the CAA.
The watchdog was previously granted the ability to apply to courts for enforcement orders in 2003, but Which 
understands it has used this power just once against a major airline.
This came in 2018, but Ryanair – the airline involved – was able to escape punishment following a three-year court 
battle that saw it belatedly agree to pay passengers compensation for flights cancelled as a result of a pilot strike.
Rocio Concha, Which directory of policy and advocacy, said:“Passengers have repeatedly endured unfair and in 
some cases unlawful treatment by some airlines in recent years and meaningful action is long past due.
“The government must act without delay and legislate to grant the CAA the powers it needs to issue hefty fines, and 
hold airlines to account when they break the law. Until it does so, UK travellers’ rights will be worth no more than 
the paper they are written on.”
Airlines getting off scot-free with no fines issued for decades, says Which
The calls come as airlines’ poor compensation practices come increasingly under the spotlight.
This month, the US government fined British Airways $1.1m (£900,000) for complaints about unpaid refunds during 
the pandemic, with Which saying today that the lack of similar action from UK authorities was an “embarrassing 
indictment of weak passenger protections in this country”.
In May, a Sunday Times investigation found that Wizz Air was yet to pay nearly £5m in unpaid refunds  to British 
passengers across 881 outstanding county court judgements.
Previous Which analysis in 2021, found that approximately 2.3m people in the UK were left out of pocket for flights 
they could not take during the pandemic
In its statement this morning, the consumer group took particular issue with budget airlines Ryanair, Wizz Air and 
Easyjet, as well as British Airways.In response, the often-combativeRyaniar refuted all claims, stating “any Ryanair 
customers who are entitled to compensation due to staff strikes in 2018 and who applied directly to Ryanair for 
compensation, have received compensation directly from Ryanair in line with EU261″.
Low-cost carrier Easyjet also hit back, stating “Easyjet refutes the suggestion that we do not comply with our legal 
obligations relating to the passenger regulations governing disrupted flights”.
“We provide customers with a self-service tool which enables them to reroute quickly and easily on alternative 
flights if their flight is cancelled.”
A British Airways spokesperson said: “Where a customer’s flight is cancelled, we always offer options including a 
full refund, rerouting or rebooking onto another service, including with other airlines. We always meet our legal 
obligations.”
A spokesperson for Wizz Air previously told City A.M.: “Wizz Air has resolved the vast majority of the county court 
judegment (CCJ) cases and we are in the process of updating the court records to reflect this. We are currently 
finalising the outstanding CCJs and can assure all passengers will be reimbursed as soon as possible.
“Last year, Wizz Air faced extraordinary operational challenges that meant we did not meet our own standards in 
the level of service delivered. Since then we have taken significant steps, including implementing structural and 
organisational changes.”
Anna Bowles, head of consumer at the CAA, said: “We have regularly asked for stronger consumer enforcement 
powers, including the ability to impose fines on airlines. 
“This would allow us to take faster action when appropriate and bring our powers in line with other sectoral 
regulators.”
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air report jump in passenger numbers
Load-Date: July 24, 2023
End of Document
Passengers face flight delays after Gatwick Airport system outage
Passengers face flight delays after Gatwick Airport system outage
Cityam.com
December 9, 2023 Saturday 1:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 289 words
Byline: City AM reporter
Highlight: Travellers faced hours of delays at Gatwick Airport on Saturday after a system outage grounded flights. 
Passengers flying to and from the West Sussex airport reported planes being stuck on the tarmac after the 
problems hit at around 8am. The airport said the air traffic control outage had since been fixed, but apologised for 
ongoing [...]
Body
Travellers faced hours of delays at Gatwick Airport on Saturday after a system outage grounded flights.
Passengers flying to and from the West Sussex airport reported planes being stuck on the tarmac after the 
problems hit at around 8am.
The airport said the air traffic control outage had since been fixed, but apologised for ongoing delays.
Dozens of departures and arrivals appeared to be affected, with football fans travelling to Premier League matches 
among those experiencing issues.
Read more
British Airways chief: New red tape puts UK aviation at ‘competitive disadvantage’
Danny Bellringer, 45, was travelling from Dublin with fellow Brighton fans for the game against Burnley when the 
group was told their Aer Lingus flight would be delayed by at least two hours.
The oil rig worker said: “There’s not a huge amount we can do – we’re kind of used to it when travelling over from 
Ireland to the UK for games, (it) very rarely goes completely smoothly.”
Padraic Mac Aonghusa, 24, said fellow passengers on his Ryanair flight from Dublin were “angry” when the pilot 
announced there would be a delay due to the issues at Gatwick.
Mr Mac Aonghusa, who works in finance in Ireland, was travelling for the game between Crystal Palace and 
Liverpool and was delayed for an hour and 15 minutes.
Passengers face flight delays after Gatwick Airport system outage
A London Gatwick spokesperson said: “There was an outage to a local Nats system earlier this morning which has 
now been rectified.
“Some passengers may experience delays. We apologise for any inconvenience.”
The spokesperson added that one flight was cancelled and two were diverted from Gatwick.
                     Press Association – Aisling Grace                   
Read more
Former British Airways chief: Gatwick must improve on air traffic disruption
Load-Date: December 9, 2023
End of Document
UK transport is reliable, minister insists, despite flight disruption and rail strikes
UK transport is reliable, minister insists, despite flight disruption and rail 
strikes
Cityam.com
August 29, 2023 Tuesday 9:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 364 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Transport Secretary Mark Harper has insisted the UK has a reliable transport network, despite 
yesterday's “network-wide” failure of the country's Air Traffic Control (ATC) system and ongoing rail strikes.
Body
Transport Secretary Mark Harper has insisted the UK has a reliable transport network, despite yesterday’s 
“network-wide” failure of the country’s Air Traffic Control (ATC) system and ongoing rail strikes.
Asked on the BBC this morning whether the disruption sweeping across aviation and rail showed that transport in 
the UK can’t be relied upon, Harper replied: “Well, I don’t accept that… on 99.9 per cent of occasions the air traffic 
system works perfectly well. Millions of people fly in and out of the United Kingdom without incident.”
While he acknowledged the scale of the error yesterday, he insisted “these things do not happen frequently”.
“We will look at the detail of what happened here and see whether there are any lessons to be learned,” he said. 
Thousands of passengers were left stranded yesterday and facing delays of up to 12 hours after a technical issue 
at the National Air Traffic Service (NATS) resulted in the biggest ATC fault in nearly a decade.
Whilst the issue was eventually resolved late afternoon, airports and airlines including BA, Easyjet and Ryanair 
have been forced to disrupt hundreds of flights over the coming days.
Heathrow has said services will be “significantly disrupted” throughout today, while passengers are being told to 
check in with their airlines before heading to the terminal. 
Brits have simultaneously been hit by fresh action on the rail network, as thousands of RMT members walked out 
over the weekend in an ongoing dispute over pay. ASLEF members have also announced an overtime ban in early 
September.
Harper said that yesterday’s flight disruption would take “some days to resolve”.
UK transport is reliable, minister insists, despite flight disruption and rail strikes
In a separate interview with GB News this morning, Harper said that an independent review would be launched into 
the incident, and that the government does not believe the disruption was caused by a cybersecurity incident. 
“The Civil Aviation Authority will be putting together a report in the coming days, which obviously I will take a look at 
to see whether there are lessons to learn for the future, to see whether we can reduce the impact of this again,” he 
said. 
Read more
UK air traffic control failure leads to delays and cancellations at airports
Load-Date: August 29, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair mocks absent Chancellor with 'come back to help out' tweet
Ryanair mocks absent Chancellor with 'come back to help out' tweet
Cityam.com
December 16, 2021 Thursday 4:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 350 words
Byline: Emily Hawkins
Highlight: The Chancellor of the Exchequer faced criticism from Ryanair this afternoon, as the budget airline urged 
him to return to the UK and help out ailing businesses. Hospitality and tourism firms have been calling on Sunak to 
bring back pandemic support measures, as they face waves of cancellations amid a surge of Omicron cases before 
[...]The post Ryanair mocks absent Chancellor with 'come back to help out' tweet appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The Chancellor of the Exchequer faced criticism from Ryanair this afternoon, as the budget airline urged him to 
return to the UK and help out ailing businesses.
Hospitality and tourism firms have been calling on Sunak to bring back pandemic support measures, as they face 
waves of cancellations amid a surge of Omicron cases before Christmas.
In a tweet, airline Ryanair shared a graphic of Sunak on a Californian beach, urging him to "come back and help 
out," a play on the Treasury's subsidised meals scheme from summer 2020. 
"It's not often we plug our rivals, but there's plenty of flights from California back to the UK if you've got urgent 
business to attend to," the brand said.
                     It's not often we plug our rivals, but there's plenty of flights from California back to the UK if you've got 
urgent business to attend to  #comebacktohelpout pic.twitter.com/dGUYVCpDvk &mdash; Ryanair (@Ryanair) 
December 16, 2021
Economic secretary John Glenn has said that Sunak will speak to hospitality firms in the UK from California to "hear 
their concerns" about the need for further financial support.
A spokesperson for Sunak told The Guardian newspaper that the Chancellor had travelled to the US to meet tech 
and investment leaders with a "packed schedule of meetings". 
Sunak is expected back in London on Friday, as pub bosses say the trade is readying to lose out on £297m in trade 
this Christmas. 
Ryanair mocks absent Chancellor with 'come back to help out' tweet
What's more, over 3m bookings in pubs were cancelled last week alone, according to the British Beer and Pub 
Association (BBPA).
Shadow health secretary, Wes Streeting, called on the government to help businesses "having a hard time at the 
moment."
He said: "We understand the chancellor is currently out of the country in California. So perhaps he might want to 
get himself on a flight back and get a grip on the situation, because businesses need certainty and confidence 
now."
Read more
Hospitality pleads Chancellor for support amid 'deja vu' of mass cancellations reminiscent of March 2020
The post Ryanair mocks absent Chancellor with 'come back to help out' tweet  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 16, 2021
End of Document
Dominant Allaho looks most likely to win by daylight in Thursday's Ryanair
Dominant Allaho looks most likely to win by daylight in Thursday's Ryanair
Cityam.com
March 13, 2022 Sunday 6:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 300 words
Byline: Bill Esdaile
Highlight: IF THERE was one performance at last year's Cheltenham Festival that will live long in the memory, it 
was Allaho's demolition job in the Ryanair Chase.  Willie Mullins' eight-year-old set a blistering pace from just after 
the third fence and slowly went clear of his field, running out an impressive 12 length winner.  He's looked [...]The 
post Dominant Allaho looks most likely to win by daylight in Thursday's Ryanair appeared first on CityAM.
Body
IF THERE was one performance at last year's Cheltenham Festival that will live long in the memory, it was Allaho's 
demolition job in the Ryanair Chase. 
Willie Mullins' eight-year-old set a blistering pace from just after the third fence and slowly went clear of his field, 
running out an impressive 12 length winner. 
He's looked better than ever this campaign, winning both starts and was again 12 lengths too good for Fakir 
D'oudairies at Thurles last time. 
Allaho is already as short as 4/7 to retain his crown with plenty of uncertainty around who will actually try and lower 
his colours. 
Stablemates Energumene and Chacun Pour Soi are both listed in the betting but are set to run in Wednesday's 
Champion Chase, while his closest realistic market rivel Conflated also holds a Boodles Gold Cup entry. 
The reality is he will likely get shorter still as his assignment becomes easier every time a significant challenger opts 
to bypass the race. 
William Hill have opened up a market on which one of the supposed Festival bankers will win by the furthest 
distance, with Honeysuckle (11/4), Shishkin (4/1), Facile Vega (9/2) and Tiger Roll (5/1) all listed alongside Allaho 
(5/2). 
Honeysuckle hasn't looked at her very best this campaign and has a serious challenger in the shape of Appreciate 
It, while Shishkin has a battalion of Willie Mullins stars nipping at his heels. 
Dominant Allaho looks most likely to win by daylight in Thursday's Ryanair
Facile Vega has a serious threat in the shape of American Mike, while Tiger Roll has got to still prove he can do it. 
That leaves Allaho as a strong fancy and the 5/2 could look very juicy come Thursday. 
                     POINTERS                    
Allaho to be widest margin winner of five bankers 5/2 William Hill
The post Dominant Allaho looks most likely to win by daylight in Thursday's Ryanair  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 15, 2022
End of Document
Explainer: Why are plane tickets so expensive?
Explainer: Why are plane tickets so expensive?
Cityam.com
July 28, 2023 Friday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 451 words
Byline: Elena Siniscalco
Highlight: Have you recently found yourself making an Excel spreadsheet of flights prices for a summer holiday, or 
trying to strategise how to book flights for that international trip like it was a game of chess? If you have, that’s 
because flying has become more and more expensive over the past year. The owner of British [...]
Body
Have you recently found yourself making an Excel spreadsheet of flights prices for a summer holiday, or trying to 
strategise how to book flights for that international trip like it was a game of chess? If you have, that’s because 
flying has become more and more expensive over the past year.
The owner of British Airways, IAG, just reported bumper profits. Its operating profit before exceptional items for the 
second quarter of the year was more than four times that of last year – rising from around £250m (€295m) last year 
to around £1.06bn (€1.25bn) this year.
IAG is not alone. Budget airlines easyJet and Ryanair also recently reported record profits, with Ryanair announcing 
in July it had made a profit four times higher than the previous year in the three months to the end of June.
Airlines make huge amounts of money because tickets are so expensive, and tickets are so expensive because we 
are often willing to pay more than what we would like to get on a flight – especially when there is no travel 
alternative. To go from the US to anywhere in Europe, for example, it is now common to pay $1,000 for a round trip 
on the cheapest seats. 
There are reasons beyond profiteering driving the price of tickets up. Inflation is making everything, including flying, 
more expensive. The price of oil is still high, and since the pandemic there have been staffing shortages that 
airlines haven’t been fully able to resolve.
Read more
Ryanair posts record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes and high fuel prices
Explainer: Why are plane tickets so expensive?
There are also fewer planes than there should be, because Boeing and Airbus have had to delay their big plans for 
new aircraft because of supply chain problems.
But ultimately, it boils down to the fact that airlines exist in a monopoly-like world. They can keep pushing prices up 
and cutting services because the breaking point for clients is much more stretched than with any other service. We 
all remember the good old times when you didn’t have to pay for literally everything you bring onboard; now you do, 
and we still fly.
This week, Chancellor Jeremy Hunt invited companies making massive profits to be responsible in how they treat 
their customers, talking of a “social contract” between those who provide the service and those who acquire it. He 
was talking to banking and energy giants, but airlines might be better off listening too.
They’re unlikely to push prices down, however. They might try to save face by saying they’re investing in technology 
and sustainability – see green fuel – and that it requires money. But if you’re hoping to fly a little further for a little 
less next summer, you might have to reconsider your hopes.
Read more
Asset sales lift AIG profit
Load-Date: July 28, 2023
End of Document
Flying start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on Ryanair and Wizz Air
Flying start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on 
Ryanair and Wizz Air
Cityam.com
February 2, 2023 Thursday 8:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 397 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Shares for low-cost carriers Ryanair and Wizz Air have gone up this morning after both reported a strong 
start to 2023, with passenger numbers well above 2022 levels. Ryanair’s passenger numbers soared to 11.8 million 
in the last month, 69 per cent up on January last year, while Wizz Air’s levels soared 73 per cent [...]The post Flying 
start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on Ryanair and Wizz Air appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Shares for low-cost carriers Ryanair and Wizz Air have gone up this morning after both reported a strong start to 
2023, with passenger numbers well above 2022 levels.
Ryanair’s passenger numbers soared to 11.8 million in the last month, 69 per cent up on January last year, while 
Wizz Air’s levels soared 73 per cent to 4.2 million. 
Following the impressive figures, Ryanair’s share price went up by 2.5 per cent while Wizz Air’s climbed by almost 
five per cent.
Both reported that load factor – the measure of how well an airline fills its seats – was also up at 91 per cent for the 
Dublin-based airline and at 86 per cent for the Hungarian low-cost. 
The data comes after both airlines reported strong quarterly results in the last week, with Ryanair posting a profit of 
€211m (£184.9m). 
The Irish airline also said the profit had exceeded pre-pandemic levels by €123m, City A.M.reported.
Wizz Air’s profit was significantly smaller, as the airline posted earnings worth €33.5m after passenger levels 
soared to 12.4m in the three months ended 31 December. 
Both companies, in addition to rival Easyjet, continue to perform well despite a turbulent economic environment 
plagued by recession fears and higher costs of living. 
Flying start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on Ryanair and Wizz Air
Read more
Three things we learnt from Easyjet and Wizz Air’s results
The secret behind the low-cost carriers’ ongoing success is that they keep offering affordable fares, demand for 
which increases exponentially during a recession. 
“We see a strong booking momentum, as customers prioritise spending on their holidays,” Easyjet’s chief Lundgren 
told journalists last week. 
“And in this high cost of living environment, customers are looking for value.”
Nevertheless, the future remains uncertain as low-cost airlines are not insulated from the global economic 
downturn. 
“The market does remain jittery to forward-looking estimates though, with Wizz Air’s valuation facing a knock as 
investors questioned how long this elevated demand can be sustained,” Sophie Lund-Yates, lead equity analyst at 
Hargreaves Lansdown, toldCity A.M.
“The distance left on the runway before sentiment reverses is yet to be seen and could cause upset,” she said last 
week.
Read more
‘No plans to do this at the moment’: Superdry boss plays down bid to go private
The post Flying start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on Ryanair and Wizz Air  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 2, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair adds one million extra seats to UK winter schedule
Ryanair adds one million extra seats to UK winter schedule
Cityam.com
August 23, 2022 Tuesday 5:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 253 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair has announced it was adding one million extra seats to its winter schedule while the likes of 
British Airways (BA) continue to axe flights. The airline now expects to carry 166.5 million passengers by the end of 
the year – 1.5 million more than initially predicted. The low-cost carrier said it was increasing its [...]The post 
Ryanair adds one million extra seats to UK winter schedule appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has announced it was adding one million extra seats to its winter schedule while the likes of British Airways 
(BA) continue to axe flights.
The airline now expects to carry 166.5 million passengers by the end of the year – 1.5 million more than initially 
predicted.
The low-cost carrier  said it was increasing its capacity to and from 20 UK airports in response to BA’s decision to 
cancel 10,000 flights due to staff shortages and Heathrow’s decision to extend passenger cap until the end of 
October. 
Initially introduced in early July, Heathrow’s 100,000 daily passengers’ cap was supposed to stay in place until 11 
September.
“While BA are cancelling 8 per cent of their winter schedule due to staff shortages and ‘Hopeless Heathrow’s’ 
capacity restrictions, Ryanair is now adding more capacity to our largest ever UK winter schedule, so that UK 
families can book with confidence that they will get to their low-fare city break and winter sun getaways without the 
risk of flight cancellations and avoiding ‘Hopeless Heathrow’ as well,” said chief executive Michael O’Leary. 
The legacy carrier said yesterday that while it needed to make additional cancellations, it would protect “key holiday 
destinations over half-term,” giving affected customers the option to either get another flight – either BA or another 
carrier – or get a refund.
Read more
Ryanair adds one million extra seats to UK winter schedule
‘Business as usual’: Gatwick returns to black and scraps passenger cap
The post Ryanair adds one million extra seats to UK winter schedule  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 23, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair remains positive despite Omicron concerns
Ryanair remains positive despite Omicron concerns
Cityam.com
December 2, 2021 Thursday 2:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 286 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Eddie Wilson, chief executive of Ryanair DAC, said this morning the airline remains positive about 
summer demand, bypassing concerns related to the new Covid variant, Omicron, and its impact on Christmas 
demand. Speaking at London's World Aviation Festival, Wilson said that the carrier's focus remained on next 
summer. "We were hoping that the demand curve [...]The post Ryanair remains positive despite Omicron concerns 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Eddie Wilson, chief executive of Ryanair DAC, said this morning the airline remains positive about summer 
demand, bypassing concerns related to the new Covid variant, Omicron, and its impact on Christmas demand.
Speaking at London's World Aviation Festival, Wilson said that the carrier's focus remained on next summer. 
"We were hoping that the demand curve would really get going in January once we got through Christmas but then 
that had been sort of T-boned by the travel restrictions but we're still optimistic about next summer, we can see it in 
terms of pent-up demand," he said. "We need more testing but not travel restrictions."
The company, which is back to pre-covid demand levels, released today its November traffic stats and registered 
an 86 per cent increase, going up to 10.2 million passengers compared with 2 million registered in November 2020.
"If you look at November, we have had a load factor of 86 per cent [but] it's going to be challenging for Christmas 
because it's not necessarily going to be price led because people will feel the pressure not to travel for their own 
personal reasons," Wilson said. 
The carrier reported on Tuesday some softening of trading caused by the Omicron variant, stating it remained well 
placed to handle uncertainty through the financial year's final part, Reuters wrote.
One of Ryanair's main hubs in the UK, London Luton, announced today that its plans to expand capacity by 1 
million passengers were approved, City A.M. reported. The airport will see three more flights per day as a result of 
the move.
Ryanair remains positive despite Omicron concerns
Read more
London Luton Airport plans for 1m more passengers given green light
The post Ryanair remains positive despite Omicron concerns  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: EU Commission ‘lacks the bottle’ to go against governments
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: EU Commission ‘lacks the bottle’ to go against 
governments
Cityam.com
December 5, 2022 Monday 10:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 327 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The European Commission “lacks the bottle” to go against the interests of national governments, 
according to Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary.  Appearing in front of an Irish transport committee late last week, 
O’Leary said it was unfair that intra-EU short-haul flights were paying environmental taxes, while the more polluting 
long-haul flights remained exempt, the Express first [...]The post Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: EU Commission ‘lacks 
the bottle’ to go against governments appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The European Commission “lacks the bottle” to go against the interests of national governments, according to 
Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary. 
Appearing in front of an Irish transport committee late last week, O’Leary said it was unfair that intra-EU short-haul 
flights were paying environmental taxes, while the more polluting long-haul flights remained exempt, the Express 
first reported. 
“The European Parliament, which I would not be a big fan of, has called for environmental taxation to be extended 
to all long-haul flights travelling to and from Europe,” he told Irish politicians. 
“[But] the European Council and Commission under the influence of the Germans, the French and the Dutch, are 
pushing back and saying, ‘No, we want to continue to exempt the most polluting flights used by the richest people 
travelling to and from Europe.’
“That’s what lobbying gets you in the marble halls of Brussels.”
The chief executive  has also called on the EU to deal with the French air traffic controllers’ strikes, which have 
crippled the country over the last few months.
Workers have been walking out as part of a dispute over salaries.
According to O’Leary, the strikes usually take place on a Friday so that workers can have a three-day weekend.
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: EU Commission ‘lacks the bottle’ to go against governments
“Our people, our citizens, our visitors are being completely screwed over while a bunch of French air traffic 
controllers go on strike – and we fully respect their right to go on strike – but let the French take the hit,” the chief 
executive said. 
“It is bizarre that Europe’s free movement of people across Europe in a single market is allowed to be threatened by 
the French every time they have these recreational strikes, which they have frequently in the summer.”
The European Commission has declined to comment.
Read more
Avon Protection sells off US facility as it winds down armour-making business
The post Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: EU Commission ‘lacks the bottle’ to go against governments  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 5, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair on course to hit targets after strong August
Ryanair on course to hit targets after strong August
Cityam.com
August 24, 2021 Tuesday 4:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 270 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary today said that the budget airline was recovering at a faster rate than its 
European competitorsThe post Ryanair on course to hit targets after strong August appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary today said that the budget airline was recovering at a faster rate than its European 
competitors after a surge in passenger numbers in August.
The Irishman said that passenger numbers for this month were on track to hit 10.5m, up from 9.3m in July, and 
double the 5m the carrier flew in June.
As a result, O'Leary said that the carrier was on course to hit its target to fly between 90m and 100m people over 
the current financial year.
That compares to a pre-pandemic peak of 149m passengers.
"Ryanair is recovering strongly, much faster than other any airline in Europe. Bookings are increasing very rapidly," 
he told a press conference in Lisbon.
"Bookings for the remainder of this year, through September, October, November are looking very strong, but 
pricing is weak. We are selling a lot of cheap seats to recover the market very quickly."
As with the rest of the transport industry, the pandemic has battered Ryanair, which posted a 273m loss in its most 
recent quarterly results.
However, despite 18 months of travel restrictions, the carrier remains in a position of relative fiscal strength due to 
the depth of its balance sheet.
It has also continued to expand its footprint, introducing 379 new routes and 10 new bases.
Today, however, it was confirmed that Ryanair would end its operations at both of Belfast's airports in the coming 
months.
Ryanair on course to hit targets after strong August
It only restarted flights from Belfast City Airport in May after 11 years of absence, but the lack of demand has seen 
the flier now decide to pull out again.
The post Ryanair on course to hit targets after strong August  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 24, 2021
End of Document
Empty planes: Omicron onslaught and travel restrictions hit Ryanair 's passenger number
Empty planes: Omicron onslaught and travel restrictions hit Ryanair's 
passenger number
Cityam.com
January 5, 2022 Wednesday 9:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 364 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: The number of passengers flown around Europe by budget airline Ryanair was down 7 per cent 
between November and December as travel restrictions were imposed amid the spread of the Omicron variant. The 
carrier said the number of passengers dropped to 9.5 million last month - the lowest since July and down from 10.2 
million [...]The post Empty planes: Omicron onslaught and travel restrictions hit Ryanair's passenger number 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The number of passengers flown around Europe by budget airline Ryanair was down 7 per cent between November 
and December as travel restrictions were imposed amid the spread of the Omicron variant.
The carrier said the number of passengers dropped to 9.5 million last month - the lowest since July and down from 
10.2 million in November.
It ran 62,200 flights last month, with a load factor - a measure of how well an airline fills its planes - of 81 per cent, 
down from 86 per cent in November.
The group had warned over profits just before Christmas as it cut its passenger forecast for December and January 
due to Omicron restrictions.
Read more
France discovers new Covid variant IHU with 46 mutations amid 271,000 coronavirus infections, biggest one-day 
jump on record
The group had previously expected to fly between 10 and 11 million passengers in December, while it also slashed 
its guidance for January by 33% as restrictions were imposed on British passengers flying to Germany and France 
and all EU passengers to Morocco.
Empty planes: Omicron onslaught and travel restrictions hit Ryanair 's passenger number
It slashed its full-year results guidance to a net loss of between 250 million euros (£209 million) to 450 million euros 
(£375 million) from a previous net loss range of between 100 million euros (£83 million) to 200 million euros (£167 
million).
On a year-on-year basis, Ryanair saw passenger numbers rise from 1.9 million in December 2020, when there 
were strict restrictions to control last winter's wave of the pandemic.
The UK Government moved to so-called Plan B restrictions last month to control the spread of Omicron, instructing 
people to work from home and increase mask wearing, while some travel curbs have also been imposed in a 
number of countries across Europe.
But the Government resisted further pandemic restrictions over the festive period and Prime Minister Boris Johnson 
said on Tuesday he hoped to "ride out" the wave of Omicron without lockdown measures despite the NHS coming 
under significant strain.
Read more
Shock and astonishment after Boris Johnson plans to 'ride out' Omicron wave without new Covid restrictions
The post Empty planes: Omicron onslaught and travel restrictions hit Ryanair's passenger number  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Number of holidaymakers on Ryanair flights doubles in July to 9.3m
Number of holidaymakers on Ryanair flights doubles in July to 9.3m
Cityam.com
August 4, 2021 Wednesday 8:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 284 words
Byline: Amy O'Brien
Highlight: Budget carrier Ryanair reported flight traffic statistics on Wednesday that showed UK holidaymakers 
seized the opportunity to fly abroad inThe post Number of holidaymakers on Ryanair flights doubles in July to 9.3m 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Budget carrier Ryanair reported flight traffic statistics on Wednesday that showed UK holidaymakers seized the 
opportunity to fly abroad in the last month as travel restrictions eased. 
The total number of passengers taking Ryanair flights in July double to 9.3m, up from 4.4m in June. 
In a sign that the air carrier deemed flights safer, Ryanair increased the "load factor" - i.e., the percentage of 
available seats that are filled - from 72 per cent in June to 80 per cent in July, as it ran over 61,000 flights. 
Like other airlines and travel companies, Covid has battered the firm, causing losses of around £900m over the 
course of the pandemic.
The airline group posted a net loss of 273m for its first quarter - the three months to the end of June. 
However, it last week announced that it could make a profit for the second quarter and even break even for the 
financial year.
Earlier in the month, Ryanair also announced it is hiring 2,000 new pilots as it recovers from the pandemic-induced 
extreme disruption that caused many to lose their jobs.
The air carrier will recruit the new pilots for crew planes over the next three years as part of its efforts to rebuild 
post-Covid.
"Throughout the pandemic, Ryanair has worked closely with our people to save jobs and we are delighted to start 
planning for a return to growth over the coming years as we recover from the Covid-19 crisis and grow to 200m 
guests by FY2024," said the airline's people director, Darrell Hughes. 
Number of holidaymakers on Ryanair flights doubles in July to 9.3m
Such bullish statements, as well as a return of some holiday destinations, have impressed investors and shares 
have since risen.
The post Number of holidaymakers on Ryanair flights doubles in July to 9.3m  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 4, 2021
End of Document
Easyjet cancels 1,700 summer flights amid French air traffic controller strikes
Easyjet cancels 1,700 summer flights amid French air traffic controller 
strikes
Cityam.com
July 10, 2023 Monday 1:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 300 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: 180,000 holidaymakers have been hit by Easyjet summer flight cancellations this morning, as the airline 
battles with the ongoing impacts of French Air Traffic Controller (ATC) walk-outs and the war in Ukraine. A slew of 
departures in July, August and September are set to be grounded, with the majority of flights affected at Gatwick 
Airport, [...]
Body
180,000 holidaymakers have been hit by Easyjet summer flight cancellations this morning, as the airline battles with 
the ongoing impacts of French Air Traffic Controller (ATC) walk-outs and the war in Ukraine.
A slew of departures in July, August and September are set to be grounded, with the majority of flights affected at 
Gatwick Airport, where Easyjet operates a quarter of its fleet.
Easyjet said 95 per cent of passengers had been rebooked onto other flights.
A spokesperson said this morning: “The whole industry is seeing challenging conditions this summer with more 
constrained air space due to the war in Ukraine resulting in unprecedented ATC delays, as well as further potential 
ATC strike action.
“We have therefore made some pre-emptive adjustments to our programme consolidating a small number of flights 
at Gatwick, where we have multiple daily frequencies, in order to help mitigate these external challenges on the day 
of travel for our customers and we continue to operate around over 90,000 flights over this period.”
Carriers are facing tremendous difficulties ahead of what is expected to be a record summer of travel.
ATC restrictions as a result of France’s ongoing pension strikes and airspace closures due to the war in Ukraine 
have caused major disruption across Europe.
Easyjet said today that Gatwick had been more adversely affected by the ATC action than other hubs, due to how 
constrained the airport is.
Easyjet cancels 1,700 summer flights amid French air traffic controller strikes
Its budget rival Ryanair recently hit out at the EU commission chief Ursula Von der Leyen for failing to protect 
overflights – flights into another territory – from the ATC walk-outs.
Michael O’Leary’s outfit said earlier this month that it had cancelled 900 flights in June, ahead of the critical summer 
getaway. 
Read more
BA pilots at Gatwick to be paid less than Easyjet’s
Load-Date: July 10, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair to revert to second-hand market if Boeing doesn't step up, warns O'Leary
Ryanair to revert to second-hand market if Boeing doesn't step up, warns 
O'Leary
Cityam.com
May 16, 2022 Monday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 453 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair could revert to buying aircraft from the second-hand leasing market if Boeing were not to step 
up, according to the airline's boss Michael O'Leary. O'Leary told analysts today the airline was willing to remain with 
Boeing but said the plane manufacturer's management needed to "bloody well improve," as they were "running 
around like headless [...]The post Ryanair to revert to second-hand market if Boeing doesn't step up, warns O'Leary 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair could revert to buying aircraft from the second-hand leasing market if Boeing were not to step up, 
according to the airline's boss Michael O'Leary. 
O'Leary told analysts today the airline was willing to remain with Boeing but said the plane manufacturer's 
management needed to "bloody well improve," as they were "running around like headless chickens."
"Boeing needs a management reboot in Seattle and either the existing management needs to up its game or they 
need to change the existing management," Ryanair's chief executive explained. 
"We're very happy to work with existing management but they need to bloody well improve on what they've been 
doing delivering to us over the last 12 months."
Commenting on the news, travel expert Rob Staines said: "O'Leary's frustrations will hit hard at Boeing which is 
making efforts to reduce its own losses as it emerges from the pandemic and a tough trading environment.
"Operating a sole Boeing fleet, Ryanair is a major customer of the US titan and in true O'Leary style he's made it 
clear if issues such as delivery and pricing aren't improved, he will be marching with his feet."
At the end of last month the US manufacturer posted a $1.2bn loss, falling short of analysts expectations in both the 
defence and civil aviation side of the business. 
The company was forced to push the delivery of its 777X jets to 2025 because of technical and supply issues.
Ryanair to revert to second-hand market if Boeing doesn't step up, warns O'Leary
O'Leary's comments follow Ryanair announcing this morning it had narrowed its losses from £867m to £302m, 
hoping to return to profitability in the current financial year. 
But the chief executive said it was "impractical, if not impossible" to provide guidance at the moment because of the 
ongoing impact of Covid and the Ukraine war on holiday bookings, City A.M. reported.
While bookings had improved in recent weeks because of the summer peak, the 61-year-old executive said, caution 
was needed when heading into winter. 
"[Demand] is too fragile, there remains too many moving parts," he said. 
According to O'Leary, travellers should be prepared to pay more this summer because of the higher demand for 
short-haul destinations. 
"I think capacity, generally, across the summer will be down 10 per cent, 15 per cent," he told BBC Radio 4's Today 
Programme. 
"Prices will be up by, I think, in the first quarter, they'll be down on pre-Covid up to June, for the September-quarter 
at the moment, based on about 50 per cent of all bookings, we expect prices will be up high single-digit percent.
Read more
Ryanair narrows losses to £300m and expects to fly back into profitability this financial year
The post Ryanair to revert to second-hand market if Boeing doesn't step up, warns O'Leary  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 16, 2022
End of Document
Flying above 2019: Ryanair posts busiest month ever with nearly 16m passengers in June alone
Flying above 2019: Ryanair posts busiest month ever with nearly 16m 
passengers in June alone
Cityam.com
July 4, 2022 Monday 7:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 203 words
Byline: Leah Montebello
Highlight: Ryanair had its busiest month ever in last month, flying 15.9 million passengers. Its load factor reached 
95 per cent for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic, and topped previous records set in May this year. 
The budget airline said it operated over 88,500 flights in June, and expects to fly 15 [...]The post Flying above 2019: 
Ryanair posts busiest month ever with nearly 16m passengers in June alone appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair had its busiest month ever in last month, flying 15.9 million passengers. 
Its load factor reached 95 per cent for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic, and topped previous 
records set in May this year.
The budget airline said it operated over 88,500 flights in June, and expects to fly 15 per cent more passengers this 
summer than in the same busy period in 2019. 
It said it will carry a record 165 million passengers in the year to March 2023, compared to its 100 million in the year 
to March 2022.
The news comes despite ongoing travel disruption at UK airports. 
Last month, Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary said that the UK Government should send in the army to relieve 
pressure from airports.
“Bringing in the army, which they do and many other European airports, would, at a stroke, relieve the pressure on 
airport security and would mean that people have a much better experience – not just this weekend, but for each 
weekend over the next three, four months,” O’Leary told the Telegraph.
Read more
Coca Cola launches music content platform featuring international artists
Flying above 2019: Ryanair posts busiest month ever with nearly 16m passengers in June alone
The post Flying above 2019: Ryanair posts busiest month ever with nearly 16m passengers in June alone  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 4, 2022
End of Document
Gatwick Airport : 42 cancellations as thousands disrupted by air traffic control shortages
Gatwick Airport: 42 cancellations as thousands disrupted by air traffic 
control shortages
Cityam.com
September 15, 2023 Friday 6:29 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 999 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight: Thousands of airline passengers have been impacted by cancelled, delayed or diverted flights due to a 
lack of air traffic control staff (ATC) at Gatwick airport. The airport confirmed a short notice staff absence in its ATC 
tower, managed by National Air Traffic Services (Nats), which meant 42 flights were cancelled or diverted while 
dozens [...]
Body
Thousands of airline passengers have been impacted by cancelled, delayed or diverted flights due to a lack of air 
traffic control staff (ATC) at Gatwick airport.
The airport confirmed a short notice staff absence in its ATC tower, managed by National Air Traffic Services (Nats) 
, which meant 42 flights were cancelled or diverted while dozens more were heavily delayed on Thursday.
More than 6,000 passengers are likely to have been affected by cancellations.
It comes just over two weeks after a Nats technical glitch caused widespread disruption at airports across the UK, 
leaving thousands of holidaymakers stranded overseas for several days.
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has called on Nats chief executive to resign, while easyJet said it is “very 
disappointed” its customers have been affected again.
Mr O’Leary said: “It is unacceptable that more flights and hundreds of passengers are suffering delays to/from 
Gatwick Airport due to Nats CEO Martin Rolfe’s blatant failure to adequately staff UK ATC.
“Airlines are paying millions of pounds to Nats each and every year and should not have to see their passengers 
suffer avoidable delays due to UK ATC staff shortages.”
An easyJet spokesperson said: “We are very disappointed that customers are once again impacted by this and 
while this is outside of our control, we are sorry for the inconvenience caused to our customers.
Gatwick Airport : 42 cancellations as thousands disrupted by air traffic control shortages
“We are doing all possible to minimise the impact of the disruption, notifying those on cancelled flights of options to 
rebook or receive a refund and provided hotel accommodation and meals where required.”
Julia Lo Bue-Said, chief executive of Advantage Travel Partnership – a network of independent travel agents, said: 
“The situation at Gatwick is unacceptable. This kind of disruption causes havoc for travellers and has huge financial 
implications for airlines, travel agents and the entire ecosystem.
“There needs to be an urgent inquiry into why there appears to be staff shortages in this crucial area, and measures 
implemented to stop these incidents occurring again.”
PA news agency analysis of flight tracking data shows that first departure cancelleddue to air traffic control 
restrictions was an easyJet flight to Berlin, due to take off at 5pm.
Fourteen departures and 12 arrivals were cancelled at Gatwick on Thursday from that time.
The first diverted arrival was a British Airways flight from Faro, Portugal.
It was due to touch down at 3.35pm, but landed at Cardiff Airport instead.
A total of 16 arrivals were diverted to a range of airports: including Bournemouth, Cardiff, Heathrow, Luton and 
Stansted.
Gatwick airport later said an additional air traffic controller was put in place and restrictions were reducing, allowing 
more aircraft to arrive and depart.
Read more
Heathrow Airport braced for October half-term chaos as baggage workers to strike
Laura Neary, 29, was due to catch a Ryanair flight to Dublin at 5:30pm, but it diverted to London Stansted, which 
she had to travel to by coach.
Ms Neary, who was travelling on her own, said some of the passengers received text messages saying they would 
need to take a coach to reach Stansted, in Essex, while others were told they could still board the flight from 
Gatwick.
The sales worker, who is from the Irish capital, told the PA news agency: “I don’t even know if I can get back to 
Dublin tonight.”
It is the third time in just over a fortnight that flights to and from the Sussex airport have been disrupted as a result 
of problems at Nats.
On August 28, Bank Holiday Monday, the Nats control system for the entire UK was hit by a technical glitch, 
causing widespread disruption.
More than a quarter of flights to and from UK airports were cancelled that day, affecting around 250,000 people.
Cancellations continued for two more days as planes and crews were out of position.
A week later, the airport was subjected to a restriction in the number of planes that could take off and land because 
of “short notice sickness”.
Nats said it is “working in line” with a staffing plan agreed with Gatwick bosses when it took over the provision of 
ATC services at the airport in October 2022, which includes training further controllers.
It said it can take up to a year for qualified controllers to complete the “specific training” required to work at an 
airport control tower.
Gatwick Airport : 42 cancellations as thousands disrupted by air traffic control shortages
Nats said: “Air traffic control restrictions have been put in place this afternoon due to a short notice staff absence 
affecting our air traffic control team at Gatwick Airport.
“We are working closely with the airport to ensure we can handle flights with as little disruption as possible and we 
apologise very sincerely to people who have been inconvenienced [as a result of unavoidable diversions].
“We are working closely with Gatwick Airport Ltd to build resilience in the airport’s control tower to ensure disruption 
is kept to a minimum.
“New air traffic controllers have been recruited since last summer, increasing our presence by 17%, and others are 
due to start after completing their training, in line with the agreed plan when Nats took over the contract last 
October.
“London Gatwick’s senior management understands that we are working hard to keep the operation moving. 
Airlines operating at London Gatwick were aware of the situation when Nats was appointed but that does not dilute 
the apology we offer sincerely to them and their passengers who have been inconvenienced by recent disruption.”
Gatwick airport apologised to affected passengers, urging them to contact their airlines for information.
The spokesperson added: “Nats are a world-class provider of air traffic services and London Gatwick’s senior 
management recognises how hard the airport’s air traffic controllers are working to keep the operation moving.
“We are working closely with Nats to build resilience in the airport’s control tower to ensure disruption is kept to a 
minimum.”
Press Association – Ted Hennessey
Read more
Gatwick: Profits take off but airport warns on air traffic control issues in UK and France
Load-Date: September 15, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air caught up in fresh greenwashing allegations
Ryanair and Wizz Air caught up in fresh greenwashing allegations
Cityam.com
June 22, 2023 Thursday 2:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 702 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Ryanair and Wizz Air are facing fresh allegations of greenwashing after the consumer organisation 
BEUC filed a complaint to the European Commission, naming them among the 17 European airlines accused of 
making misleading climate-related claims. The BEUC – which represents 46 consumer organisations in the 
European bloc – are calling for a continent-wide investigation in [...]
Body
Ryanair and Wizz Air are facing fresh allegations of greenwashing after the consumer organisation BEUC filed a 
complaint to the European Commission, naming them among the 17 European airlines accused of making 
misleading climate-related claims.
The BEUC  – which represents 46 consumer organisations in the European bloc – are calling for a continent-wide 
investigation in order to stop the airlines making claims that “give consumers the impression that flying is 
sustainable.”
‘Green fares’ charged as a result of these claims – which include inflating the benefits of carbon offsets and 
implying that aviation can become climate neutral amid an anticipated boom in travel – should be reimbursed.
A host of major Europe-based airlines have been caught up in the complaints, including Hungarian Wizz Air, Irish 
Ryanair, Germany’s flagship carrier Lufthansa and Finland’s Finnair.
One major concern of the group surrounds so-called sustainable aviation fuels (SAFs) – biofuels offered up by the 
airline sector as an alternative to traditional jet fuel.
Some airlines, the BEUC say, are “misleading consumers” by charging them more as a contribution to SAF 
development, despite the fact the fuel-alternative is “not market-ready,” and likely to only meet a small proportion of 
airlines’ jet fuel consumption by 2030.
It comes as debate heats up over whether SAF – touted as critical in securing a zero-emission future for airlines – is 
a viable solution for carriers in meeting emission reduction targets, as the fuel is expected to stay at least four times 
higher in cost until 2050 than jet fuel alternatives.
Ryanair and Wizz Air caught up in fresh greenwashing allegations
Last month, Boeing CEO David Calhoun warned that SAF would never achieve the price of jet fuel.
Ursula Pachl, the BEUC’s deputy director general, said: “whether you pay a ‘green fare’ or not, your flight will still 
emit climate-harmful gases.”
“Technological solutions to decarbonise aviation won’t become a massive-scale reality any time soon, so depicting 
flying as a sustainable mode of transport is pure greenwashing. At a time when many want to travel more 
sustainably, airlines should urgently stop offering consumers a fake peace of mind.”
Rory Boland, travel editor of consumer group Which said: “Millions of Britons want to make greener choices when 
travelling, but many airlines make this purposely difficult by misleading them about environmental commitments and 
carbon emissions.”“It’s utterly cynical for any airline to use unfounded green claims to boost sales. Consumers must 
be given accurate information at the time of booking so that they can make an informed decision before purchasing 
a ticket.”
A spokesperson for Airlines for Europe – which represents a host of the major airlines caught up in the allegations – 
said “strong sustainability criteria for offsets or carbon credits as for SAF are crucial for sector credibility.”
“In our climate strategy, we hold ambitious goals and actively seek to engage our customers in the conversation. 
We continuously learn and improve our sustainability communication, carefully reviewing all messaging to enhance 
transparency.”
The spokesperson added that the significance of offsets will likely “diminish” as the industry “brings in more fuel-
efficient aircraft and invests in more SAF” to reach net zero.
Yvonne Moynihan, corporate and ESG officer at Wizz Air, said: “The immediate focus to further reduce our carbon 
intensity and reach our 2030 target is fleet renewal, fuel saving initiatives and the use of sustainable aviation fuel.”
Moynihan stressed that in Wizz Air’s case, complaints over green fares are unwarranted, as the company does not 
have charges “for customers related to sustainable aviation fuel”. 
“Our SAF strategy includes securing off-take agreements with suppliers for the future and equity investments in 
SAF research and development,” she said.
Moynihan added: “While there are some verified carbon offsetting solutions, like the voluntary option we offer to our 
customers via our partner… we do not believe that offsetting provides a long-term solution for aviation to reach net 
zero emissions by 2025.”
Ryanair were approached for comment.
Read more
Ryanair slams EU chief for ‘ignoring’ a million passengers during French strikes
Load-Date: June 22, 2023
End of Document
Which? calls on CAA to investigate Ryanair 's refund policy
Which? calls on CAA to investigate Ryanair's refund policy
Cityam.com
March 18, 2022 Friday 12:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 250 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: UK consumer champion Which? has called on the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) to investigate 
Ryanair's refund policy after a customer threatened to sue the carrier. Ryanair announced last year the introduction 
of a new refund policy, which sees the airline pay customer refunds into a "wallet" attached to the customers' 
account. If passengers want [...]The post Which? calls on CAA to investigate Ryanair's refund policy appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
UK consumer champion Which? has called on the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) to investigate Ryanair's refund 
policy after a customer threatened to sue the carrier.
Ryanair announced last year the introduction of a new refund policy, which sees the airline pay customer refunds 
into a "wallet" attached to the customers' account. If passengers want to withdraw the funds, they need to make a 
request to Ryanair. 
According to Which?, the procedure creates "an extra step in the process," which could result in less people 
claiming their money back. Which? also said the low-cost airline didn't appear to have given passenger a choice 
regarding the "wallet" feature.
"Which? investigations have repeatedly shown that some airlines are prepared to flout the law when it comes to 
refunds and consumer rights, with little fear of facing any consequences," said Rory Boland, Which? travel editor. 
"The CAA must step in to investigate the issue, and take action against Ryanair if it confirms the policy is breaching 
the law."
A CAA spokesperson said the body was regularly monitoring "the approaches that airlines take to complying with 
their obligations and review any evidence provided to us about how they meet their obligations."
Ryanair rebutted saying customers are informed about the company's refund policies and their rights continue to be 
respected. 
Which? calls on CAA to investigate Ryanair 's refund policy
Read more
P&O lays off 800 people following £100m loss
The post Which? calls on CAA to investigate Ryanair's refund policy  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 17, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair traffic balloons to 5.3m in June as the green list calls travellers
Ryanair traffic balloons to 5.3m in June as the green list calls travellers
Cityam.com
July 2, 2021 Friday 7:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Ryanair's traffic numbers have surged since the green list got the go-ahead, ballooning from 0.4m in 
June last year toThe post Ryanair traffic balloons to 5.3m in June as the green list calls travellers appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair's traffic numbers have surged since the green list got the go-ahead, ballooning from 0.4m in June last year 
to 5.3m this month.
There was also a clear traffic jump from May to June, climbing from 1.8m to over 5m just a month later.
The pandemic and its restrictions have suppressed flight and passenger numbers for over a year, but carriers like 
Ryanair and Hungary's Wizz Air are beginning to spy recovery.
Shares were up 1.76 per cent in its afternoon trading, at 16.4p per share.
The airline operated over 38,000 flights this month, as the UK government added more countries to the coveted 
green list.
Wednesday saw Malta, Madeira, Ibiza, Mallorca, and some Caribbean Islands including Barbados added to the list.
Earlier this month, it was revealed the Irish airline and the owner of Stansted airport will take the UK government to 
court  over the legality of its traffic light travel restrictions which have grounded flights across the globe. 
The traffic light travel restrictions, which came into force in May, have shaken customer confidence in whether they 
want an abroad holiday this year, which has, in turn, knocked a string of airline stocks.
The post Ryanair traffic balloons to 5.3m in June as the green list calls travellers  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 2, 2021
Ryanair traffic balloons to 5.3m in June as the green list calls travellers
End of Document
Commercial radio giant Global shuffles management playlist
Commercial radio giant Global shuffles management playlist
Cityam.com
August 6, 2023 Sunday 12:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 329 words
Byline: Jess Jones
Highlight: Global, the owner of LBC, Heart and a host of commercial radio stations, has reshuffled its management 
deck despite maintaining its spot as the number one commercial radio company Both the finance and marketing 
chiefs of the UK’s largest commercial radio group have bid farewell to the company in recent weeks, according to 
Companies House [...]
Body
Global, the owner of LBC, Heart and a host of commercial radio stations, has reshuffled its management deck 
despite maintaining its spot as the number one commercial radio company 
Both the finance and marketing chiefs of the UK’s largest commercial radio group have bid farewell to the company 
in recent weeks, according to Companies House filings. 
Ben Porter, who previously worked as a lieutenant under Rupert Murdoch at Foxtel and Sky, is set to become the 
chief financial officer, filling the boots of Darren Singer.
Seasoned media executive Singer, who helped sell GMG Radio to Global  for £70m in 2012, stepped down as chief 
financial officer in July. 
Former Virgin Media exec Cilesta van Doorn has also departed from the company after an 18 month long stint as 
chief marketing officer.
James Hickman, who has been with Global since 2013, has earned a promotion to the board position of chief digital 
product officer.
City A.M. approached Global for comment.
The company saw overall growth in its total weekly audience, reaching 26.3m listeners in the second quarter, 
largely driven by Heart, Capital, and Smooth stations. 
Commercial radio giant Global shuffles management playlist
Global owner Ashley Tabor-King said in a statement: “We’re enormously grateful to the millions of people who 
chose our radio brands every day, for entertainment, information and companionship. 
“Commercial radio is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year and it’s therefore fitting that commercial radio has its 
highest ever listening figures today, underlining the strength and resilience of the sector, and the medium.”
Recently, BBC’s talk stations, Radio 4’s Today programme and Times Radio listeners all witnessed a decline.
However, GB News Radio and News UK’s Talk Radio and Talk Sport racked up more audiences and last week 
Bauer Media Audio UK said its Hits Radio brand is the UK’s biggest commercial network with 11.4m weekly 
listeners, up 20.5 per cent year on year. 
Read more
No public support for France’s short-haul ban says Ryanair’s boss
Load-Date: August 6, 2023
End of Document
Mamma mia! Airlines object to Italy’s flight price cap
Mamma mia! Airlines object to Italy’s flight price cap
Cityam.com
August 15, 2023 Tuesday 1:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 458 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Plans to cap the cost of domestic fares in Italy have angered airlines just days after the Rome 
government also irked banks
Body
European airlines have called on the European Commission to intervene in a feud with Italian prime minister 
Georgia Meloni, over proposals to cap air fares on certain routes.
Last week, Meloni’s populist government announced plans to cap the price of tickets between the mainland and 
Sardinia and Sicily during peak periods, at 200 per cent of the average annual price. 
In a letter seen by the Financial Times , trade body Airlines for Europe (A4E) said that Brussels must “clarify with 
Italy that this intervention impacts the free and deregulated air transport market in Europe.”
A4E’s managing director Ourania Georgoutsakou said airlines were “strongly concerned” that should the law be 
adopted, “it could set a precedent and lead to a domino effect resulting in similar regulations being adopted in other 
EU member states.”
The changes, he argued, would “violate” the right of airlines “to compete wherever possible, set prices and define 
services as they see fit.”
Major European carriers have strongly objecting to the proposals, with A4E representing the likes of Easyjet and 
Ryanair.
Ryanair’s CEO Eddie Wilson slammed the decision to “unlawfully interfere on how airlines set prices for airfares,” 
arguing it would “reduce capacity, halt route development, take winter connectivity away and will raise prices for all 
passengers flying from the Islands to the Italian mainland.”
The Dublin-based carrier claims the plans are “illegal” under current European Union law and could cause future air 
fare hikes as a result of a reduction in the number of flights.
Mamma mia! Airlines object to Italy’s flight price cap
Wizz Air, who are not a member of A4E, confirmed toCity A.M.that they had also raised concerns with the European 
Commission yesterday.
“Our strong view is that the proposed plan is contrary to the principle of pricing freedom, which is entrenched in EU 
law,” a spokesperson said.
“Ultimately, we don’t believe that the decree will achieve what the Italian government intends – which is the 
reduction of high fares.”
The carrier added that its prices were affordable “and will continue to be, and we don’t believe in the interference of 
the well-established commercial freedom to price our airfares.”
Amid booming post-pandemic demand this year, the sector has faced criticism over rising ticket prices.
Industry body IATA said in June that it expects fares to keep rising for the next 10-15 years, with the cost of 
decarbonisation further adding to carriers’ cost base.
The European Commission were contacted for comment.
It came just days after a proposed windfall tax on banks bumper profits sent shares in a host of European lenders 
plummeting, in a seperate row between the Italian premier and the business world.
Read more
Wizz Air smashes passenger records as CEO predicts further summer growth
Load-Date: August 15, 2023
End of Document
777 partners new aviation asset arm raises $230m to finance Boeing 737 deliveries
777 partners new aviation asset arm raises $230m to finance Boeing 737 
deliveries
Cityam.com
June 7, 2023 Wednesday 1:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 472 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: AIP Capital, the aviation asset management arm of Miami-based 777 partners, has raised $230m 
(£184.5m) from investors to finance the delivery of 7 Boeing 737 Max aircrafts, amid ongoing financial difficulties 
and backlogs in the sector. The newly-launched private equity group, which operates in Dublin, London and the US, 
said that Citibank arranged the acquisition [...]The post 777 partners new aviation asset arm raises $230m to 
finance Boeing 737 deliveries appeared first on CityAM.
Body
AIP Capital, the aviation asset management arm of Miami-based 777 partners, has raised $230m (£184.5m) from 
investors to finance the delivery of 7 Boeing 737 Max aircrafts, amid ongoing financial difficulties and backlogs in 
the sector.
The newly-launched private equity group, which operates in Dublin, London and the US, said that Citibank arranged 
the acquisition facility and would continue to advise, with the new Boeing jets delivered by the end of 2023.
Jared Ailstock, managing partner of AIP said that the announcement was “an early milestone for our platform. 
These aircraft will be both owned and managed by AIP and are a foundation for the growth of our business.”
It comes amid growing interest in the aerospace supply chain from private equity groups, who are looking to 
capitalise on supply chain investments, as the sector increases production to tackle ongoing backlogs.
Boeing and Airbus have struggled to boost production amid shortages in labour and the supply of parts, with 
smaller suppliers buckling under high interest rates.
AIP believes that private equity groups can provide a “lifeline” for the aviation sector by easing supply chain 
pressures through investment and accelerating delivery speeds for low-cost carriers. 
Ailstock toldCity A.M. that “there’s really major challenges in the supply chain.” 
777 partners new aviation asset arm raises $230m to finance Boeing 737 deliveries
“It’s pronounced in our industry and it’s having a material impact on the OEMs, it’s not just Boeing… it’s affecting 
both the aircraft and the engine manufacturers ability to deliver aircraft and really ramp up production, which is a big 
focus.”
“I think what we really want to do is use the expertise that we’ve developed over the years and our understanding of 
the importance of the supply chain and of what each of these companies do, and be able to deploy capital,” he said.
He added: “I think we’ve got some unique perspectives, and I think we can use those unique perspectives to make 
capital deployment decisions that are attractive to our capital base and can help us ease some of the strains in the 
supply chain right now.”
AIP has said that this investment in supply chains from the private equity sector could have the knock-on effect of 
reducing the ongoing rise in ticket fares which has plagued consumers and led Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary to 
proclaim last year that the era of low cost flying had ended.
Air fares for passengers across Europe saw a spike of around 20 per cent in 2023, with the average price for UK 
consumers rising by 18 per cent. 
Last month, Ryanair announced a multi-billion pound order of 300 Boeing’s 737 Max aircrafts, ending a long dispute 
between the two groups over delivery delays.
Read more
Boeing plans to ramp up 737 Max production after significant delays
The post 777 partners new aviation asset arm raises $230m to finance Boeing 737 deliveries  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 7, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air’s boss: Airline not good candidate for M&A
Wizz Air’s boss: Airline not good candidate for M&A
Cityam.com
December 1, 2022 Thursday 4:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 242 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Wizz Air is not a good candidate for M&A but it will focus instead on organic growth, boss Jozsef Varadi 
commented. The chief executive’s remarks came in response to a question on whether Wizz would ever consider 
acquiring rival Easyjet.  Easyjet on the other hand recently said it would not rule out any potential takeovers [...]The 
post Wizz Air’s boss: Airline not good candidate for M&A appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air is not a good candidate for M&A but it will focus instead on organic growth, boss Jozsef Varadi 
commented.
The chief executive’s remarks came in response to a question on whether Wizz would ever consider acquiring rival 
Easyjet. 
Easyjet on the other hand recently said it would not rule out any potential takeovers but it would only pursue deals if 
they made financial sense to investors.
“We don’t rule anything out, if it delivers value to shareholders then it’s doable, but we are focused and confident in 
our standalone plan,” chief executive Johan Lundgren on Tuesday whilst unveiling Easyjet’s year-end results. 
The UK low-cost carrier  managed to shrink its underlying losses from £1.1bn to £178m, while its net debt at £700m 
was one of the lowest in aviation. 
Wizz Air, on the other hand, was hit particularly hard by soaring fuel prices, which tripled its losses compared to the 
previous year.
Losses increased 217.9 per cent to €384.4m (£330.6m) in the second quarter of 2022. 
Nevertheless, the Hungarian carrier said today bookings for the next three months remained intact. 
Wizz was not the only low-cost airline to expect strong bookings, as Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary told 
journalists on Thursday Christmas bookings were ahead of pre-Covid levels.
Wizz Air’s boss: Airline not good candidate for M&A
Read more
Ryanair to buy green aviation fuels from Shell but 2030 target remains unsure
The post Wizz Air’s boss: Airline not good candidate for M&A  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 1, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair 's O'Leary hammers Irish government over 'untold damage' to aviation
Ryanair's O'Leary hammers Irish government over 'untold damage' to 
aviation
Cityam.com
May 27, 2021 Thursday 7:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 486 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has accused the Irish government of bringing "untold damage" on the 
aviation and tourism sector. TheThe post Ryanair's O'Leary hammers Irish government over 'untold damage' to 
aviation appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has accused the Irish government of bringing "untold damage" on the aviation and 
tourism sector.
The budget airline's chief executive also criticised transport minister Eamon Ryan for having no "plan, policy or 
commitment" on aviation, and said the government should announce an "immediate rescue plan" for the sectors.
The carrier recently reported a 815m loss, an annual record, as the coronavirus pandemic resulted in the worst 
crisis in aviation history.
Tomorrow the Irish government is set to confirm its plan to ease more Covid-19 restrictions in June and July 
Taoiseach Micheal Martin will announce details on the full reopening of the hospitality sector, international travel 
and sports and cultural events.
O'Leary called for Martin to restore the UK Common Travel Area on 1 June, describing it as "bizarre and untenable" 
that UK visitors arriving into the Republic have to undergo quarantine.
He also said that passengers travelling between Ireland and other EU member states should not be subject to hotel 
quarantine or coronavirus restrictions.
"This government has visited untold damage on Irish aviation and tourism," O'Leary said in a statement.
"Ireland has a minister for transport who has no plan, no policy and no commitment to aviation. Ireland is an island 
on the periphery of Europe, yet our transport minister has sat on an Aviation Recovery Plan since July 2020, but 
taken no action at all.
Ryanair 's O'Leary hammers Irish government over 'untold damage' to aviation
Before the Open: Get the jump on the markets with our early morning newsletter
"Ryanair has no faith in [Minister] Ryan, who has shown himself to be ineffective and not up to the job, even while 
Irish airlines are closing bases here, and moving aircraft and jobs overseas to the UK and Europe.
"It is time for Micheal Martin's government to introduce an emergency rescue plan for Irish aviation and tourism.
"Since our minister for transport is incapable or unwilling to act, Micheal Martin and Leo Varadkar must now take 
charge and reopen Ireland from the UK from Tuesday and to and from the EU from July 1."
A spokesperson for Ryan said he makes "no apologies for the public health measures approved by the cabinet to 
protect the Irish public during the pandemic."
They added: "He also appreciates the frustration of those who work in the aviation and related sectors.
"As Ryanair is well aware, Ryan has been a firm advocate of a safe and planned return to international travel.
"Ryanair is also well aware that the government will take a decision tomorrow in this regard, and that the 
government has committed to the implementation of the EU Digital Covid Certificate and other measures to ease 
restrictions.
"In addition Ryanair has benefited from extensive supports from the Irish government to the aviation sector, which 
means the Irish taxpayer, throughout the pandemic."
The post Ryanair's O'Leary hammers Irish government over 'untold damage' to aviation  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 27, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair loses appeal over industrial action compensation
Ryanair loses appeal over industrial action compensation
Cityam.com
February 3, 2022 Thursday 10:57 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 321 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The UK Court of Appeal has rejected Ryanair's appeal, ruling it cannot avoid refunding customers that 
were affected by walkouts in the summer of 2018. The low-cost carrier initially refused to pay travellers back, as it 
considered the disruption to be caused by "exceptional circumstances" but was taken to court by the Civil Aviation 
Authority [...]The post Ryanair loses appeal over industrial action compensation appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK Court of Appeal has rejected Ryanair's appeal, ruling it cannot avoid refunding customers that were 
affected by walkouts in the summer of 2018. 
The low-cost carrier initially refused to pay travellers back, as it considered the disruption to be caused by 
"exceptional circumstances" but was taken to court by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) and found in breach by the 
High Court in April.
Passengers whose flights were cancelled were entitled to up to a £208 refund, PA news agency reported.
According to Lord Justice Newey, the strikes did not constitute "extraordinary circumstances, as they related to 
Ryanair's employment conditions. 
"Ryanair has refused to pay compensation to passengers affected by industrial action taken by its pilots in 2018," 
said the CAA's director Paul Smith. 
"We believed that these passengers were in fact protected by law and that Ryanair could not claim its delayed and 
cancelled flights were 'extraordinary circumstances'. 
"The Court of Appeal has today upheld the High Court's agreement with our interpretation of the law."
A company spokesperson told the news agency the airline will file a second appeal. 
The verdict comes as consumer group Which? slammed Ryanair and British Airways for their poor refund policies, 
kicking them at the bottom of its annual survey. 
Ryanair loses appeal over industrial action compensation
Ryanair's perceived lack of transparency and low-cost policies have for the longest time antagonised travellers, as 
74 per cent of respondents said they would never fly with the Dublin-based airline, City A.M. reported. 
"Ryanair's consistently terrible customer service has made it a fixture among the worst performers in our surveys for 
many years - but the airline plumbed new depths with its handling of Covid refunds," said Rory Boland, Which? 
Travel's editor.
Read more
Which? slams Ryanair and BA over poor refund policy
The post Ryanair loses appeal over industrial action compensation  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 3, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair boss calls for open travel to all EU countries
Ryanair boss calls for open travel to all EU countries
Cityam.com
June 1, 2021 Tuesday 11:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 288 words
Byline: James Warrington
Highlight: Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has urged the government to open up travel to all EU countries to enable 
Brits toThe post Ryanair boss calls for open travel to all EU countries appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has urged the government to open up travel to all EU countries to enable Brits to 
enjoy restriction-free summer holidays abroad.
The budget airline chief called on transport minister Grant Shapps to ease international travel rules within the bloc 
for anyone who has been fully vaccinated at the next review of the green list due this week.
O'Leary also said ministers should scrap the "nonsensical" requirement of negative PCR Covid tests when returning 
from EU countries, saying they added cost and stress to travellers despite the low risk.
"The UK government must scrap the nonsensical requirement of PCR tests for those returning from low-risk green 
countries," he said.
"There is no point in setting up a traffic light system if 'green' still requires additional measures that significantly add 
to the cost of a family trip."
European holiday hotspots such as Spain, Greece and Italy have already opened their doors to British 
holidaymakers. However, they remain on the UK's amber list, meaning visitors must quarantine on return.
Ryanair said that despite the uncertainty over amber list countries, hundreds of thousands of Brits had already 
booked trips in June, July and August.
Thousands of families have already descended on Lisbon, the Algarve and Porto since Portugal was added to the 
green list last month.
More than 25m people in the UK have now had two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine - just under half the adult 
population.
Ryanair boss calls for open travel to all EU countries
However, concerns are mounting over the rapid spread of the Indian variant of the virus, with scientists warning that 
the final stage of lockdown lifting on 21 June should be delayed.
The post Ryanair boss calls for open travel to all EU countries  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 1, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair boss says UK and EU flying bans over Belarus 'not the way forward'
Ryanair boss says UK and EU flying bans over Belarus 'not the way forward'
Cityam.com
June 15, 2021 Tuesday 11:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 407 words
Byline: Stefan Boscia
Highlight: The UK and EU's bans on flights crossing over Belarussian airspace is "not the way forward" and should 
not beThe post Ryanair boss says UK and EU flying bans over Belarus 'not the way forward' appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
The UK and EU's bans on flights crossing over Belarussian airspace is "not the way forward" and should not be in 
place long-term, according to Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary.
O'Leary told MPs today that the Belarussian government's move to ground a Ryanair flight and detain an opposition 
journalist was a "state sponsored hijacking", but that "international air travel depends on all airlines being able to fly 
over all aviation authorities".
Belarussian authorities falsely told Ryanair flight 4978 that there was a serious bomb threat last month, forcing it to 
land in Minsk.
Belarussian authorities went on to detain and imprison Lithuanian journalist, and staunch critic of President 
Alexander Lukashenko, Roman Protasevich who was on the flight.
The UK and EU both told airlines to stop flying over Belarus, while also banning the country's airline Belavaia from 
entering their respective airspaces.
O'Leary told parliament's Transport Committee that while he agreed with the measures in the short-term that they 
should not be a long-term policy for either the UK or EU.
"International air travel depends on all airlines being able to fly over all aviation authorities and air traffic controls," 
he said.
"We need to have an outcome where the European and UK authorities, hopefully assisted by international partners 
receive appropriate assurances from Belarussian and/or Russian authorities that this will never happen again so air 
travel can return to the pre-23 May normal.
Ryanair boss says UK and EU flying bans over Belarus 'not the way forward'
"It is a very dangerous territory we're in if we're going to start politicising overfly and flying rights over any country, 
certainly in Europe or in Russia."
Protasevich has since appeared in videos with bruises reading what is assumed to be a forced denunciation of his 
previous criticism of Lukashenko.
His arrest is a part of Lukashenko's wider crackdown on dissent since he won the rigged Presidential election last 
year.
The election results, which came alongside many examples of vote rigging and election tampering, sparked months 
of widespread protests in the country.
O'Leary forcefully denounced the actions of the Belarussian government, but said a diplomatic way forward had to 
be found to stop disruption of flights. 
Ryanair has been battered by Covid-19, with the low-cost airline reporting losses of 815m during the 2020-21 
financial year.
The post Ryanair boss says UK and EU flying bans over Belarus 'not the way forward'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 16, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair posts first profit since Covid but mulls London delisting
Ryanair posts first profit since Covid but mulls London delisting
Cityam.com
November 1, 2021 Monday 8:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 432 words
Byline: Emily Hawkins
Highlight: Budget airline Ryanair has reported its first quarterly profit since the start of the pandemic. However, the 
Irish-based group saidThe post Ryanair posts first profit since Covid but mulls London delisting appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has reported its first quarterly profit since the start of the pandemic.
However, the Irish-based group said it still expected to post an annual loss of up to 200m (£195.4m) as it would 
need to discount tickets this winter.
Michael O'Leary, the outspoken boss of the budget carrier, told media the airline was mulling a delisting from the 
London Stock Exchange.
Ryanair reported an after-tax loss of 48m for the six months to September, slightly higher than the 43m predicted by 
analysts. 
A 273m loss for the first quarter implies a second quarter profit of 225m, the airline's first quarterly profit since 
October-December 2019.
Some 39.1m passengers flew with Ryanair in the six months to September, 54 per cent fewer than in the 
comparable pre-pandemic period.
It is expected to post a loss around 100m and 200m for the financial year ending March 31.
O'Leary lifted the group's five-year growth target to fly 225m passengers a year by 2026, from a previous forecast of 
200m.
It increased its passenger target for the financial year to March 2022 to slightly above 100m. This is compared to 
149m passengers per year before the coronavirus outbreak.
O'Leary pointed to the rollout of the EU Covid passport as the main driver of a return to short-haul travel.
Ryanair posts first profit since Covid but mulls London delisting
It said it expected to return to pre-pandemic profit levels in the year ending March 2023.
On a potential de-listing, which he put down to the Brexit vote, O'Leary said it would likely happen in the next six 
months.
"Trading on the London Stock Exchange as a percentage of overall trading volume in Ryanair's ordinary shares has 
reduced materially during 2021.
"The migration away from the LSE is consistent with a general trend for trading in shares of EU corporates post-
Brexit and is, potentially, more acute for Ryanair as a result of the longstanding prohibition on non-EU citizens 
purchasing Ryanair's ordinary shares being extended to UK nationals following Brexit.
"The board of Ryanair is now considering the merits of retaining the standard listing on the LSE. Ryanair has a 
primary listing on the regulated market of Euronext Dublin, which offers shareholders the highest standard of 
protection."
Jonathan Sullivan, managing director in Accenture's travel industry, said: "Airlines that relied heavily on business 
travel may still be in the depths of recovery mode, and more leisure oriented low-cost carriers have been able to 
capitalise on the pent-up demand over the summer months, making the ramp up easier."
The post Ryanair posts first profit since Covid but mulls London delisting  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 1, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair forced to slash 19 Lisbon routes as Portuguese carrier Tap holds on to airport slots
Ryanair forced to slash 19 Lisbon routes as Portuguese carrier Tap holds on 
to airport slots
Cityam.com
March 9, 2022 Wednesday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 354 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair said today it was forced to slash 19 Lisbon routes after it gave up 3 aircraft due to insufficient 
landing slots. The move, which has led to the cancellation of 5,000 flights and 900,000 passengers, was caused by 
Portuguese flag carrier TAP's decision to hold on to its unused slots. "We deeply regret all these [...]The post 
Ryanair forced to slash 19 Lisbon routes as Portuguese carrier Tap holds on to airport slots appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair said today it was forced to slash 19 Lisbon routes after it gave up 3 aircraft due to insufficient landing slots.
The move, which has led to the cancellation of 5,000 flights and 900,000 passengers, was caused by Portuguese 
flag carrier TAP's decision to hold on to its unused slots.
"We deeply regret all these unnecessary disruptions to passengers on these cancelled flights and the loss of 19 
routes caused solely by TAP's blocking of unused Lisbon Portela slots in Summer 2022," said chief executive 
Michael O'Leary. 
"This anti-competitive slot blocking obstructs growth, and delays the recovery of traffic, tourism, and jobs at Lisbon 
Portela, to the detriment of the Lisbon economy."
O'Leary added that Ryanair has made multiple attempts with Lisbon's government to intervene but to no avail. 
According to the airline, the capital will suffer from a 250m tourism loss this summer because of the situation.
"The loss of these 19 Lisbon routes and 5,000 flights this Summer, means that Lisbon's post Covid recovery will 
now lag behind other major EU capital cities," he added.
O'Leary's comments have revived a longstanding feud between Ryanair - alongside rivals such as Wizz Air - and 
legacy carriers.
Ryanair forced to slash 19 Lisbon routes as Portuguese carrier Tap holds on to airport slots
Ryanair accused in January German airlines Lufthansa of "blocking its slots" to protect itself from competition with 
low-cost airlines after chief executive Carsten Spohr admitted the airline was forced to operate half-empty flights to 
retain its slots under EU rules.
"The solution to Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' problem is a simple one - just sell these seats to consumers," O'Leary 
said on 12 January.
"Lufthansa loves crying crocodile tears about the environment when doing everything possible to protect its slots. 
"If Lufthansa doesn't want to operate "ghost flights" to protect its slots, then simply sell these seats at low fares, and 
help accelerate the recovery of short and long haul air travel to and from Europe."
Read more
"We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss
The post Ryanair forced to slash 19 Lisbon routes as Portuguese carrier Tap holds on to airport slots  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 9, 2022
End of Document
Which? slams Ryanair and BA over poor refund policy
Which? slams Ryanair and BA over poor refund policy
Cityam.com
February 3, 2022 Thursday 12:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 360 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Consumer group Which? has slammed Ryanair and British Airways (BA) over their refund policies, 
lambasting their inadequate approach to customer service. The carriers finished at the bottom of Which's annual 
survey after 1,100 passengers expressed their discontent and awarded Ryanair a customer score of 55 per cent, 
while BA managed to grab a 63 per [...]The post Which? slams Ryanair and BA over poor refund policy appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Consumer group Which? has slammed Ryanair and British Airways (BA) over their refund policies, lambasting their 
inadequate approach to customer service.
The carriers finished at the bottom of Which's annual survey after 1,100 passengers expressed their discontent and 
awarded Ryanair a customer score of 55 per cent, while BA managed to grab a 63 per cent. 
Ryanair's perceived lack of transparency and low-cost policies have for the longest time antagonised travellers, as 
74 per cent of respondents said they would never flight with the Dublin-based airline.
"Ryanair is the most awkward airline to deal with that I have ever come across. It seems to be proud of being 
difficult," one customer explained.
As for BA, most respondents lamented hour-long queues with customer service and poor food and drinks, 
prompting one customer to call BA "a budget style airline at premium prices."
According to Rory Boland, Which? Travel's editor, customers have a long memory and don't easily forget how they 
are treated, especially during the pandemic.
"Ryanair's consistently terrible customer service has made it a fixture among the worst performers in our surveys for 
many years - but the airline plumbed new depths with its handling of Covid refunds," he said. "BA's reputation also 
deservedly took a battering when it took a hard line on refunds for passengers who could not travel because they 
followed government health guidance. 
Which? slams Ryanair and BA over poor refund policy
Commenting on the results, BA highlighted its role as the first UK airline to offer flexibility during the pandemic. 
"If we cancel a flight we always contact customers to offer a range of options including a full refund. We've issued 
more than 4.2 million refunds and have dealt with more than 3.3 million voucher requests to date," a company 
spokesperson said. 
"However, we know we can do better and we're working hard behind the scenes, upgrading our phone systems and 
recruiting more people to deliver a better and faster customer experience that we know our customers deserve."
Read more
Wizz Air's passenger demand soar following restrictions easing
The post Which? slams Ryanair and BA over poor refund policy  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 2, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair expects annual losses near middle of forecast range
Ryanair expects annual losses near middle of forecast range
Cityam.com
March 31, 2022 Thursday 11:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 246 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair's losses are expected to near the middle of its forecast range, chief executive Michael O'Leary 
announced today. "We think we'll be somewhere in the middle of that range," O'Leary said referring to the airline's 
forecast loss of between 250m and 400m. The chief executive added that whether the company reports profits for 
the financial [...]The post Ryanair expects annual losses near middle of forecast range appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair's losses are expected to near the middle of its forecast range, chief executive Michael O'Leary announced 
today. 
"We think we'll be somewhere in the middle of that range," O'Leary said referring to the airline's forecast loss of 
between 250m and 400m. 
The chief executive added that whether the company reports profits for the financial year ending March 2023 
depends on traffic recovery and fares.
"There's a chance but it all depends on pricing," he told journalists during the Airlines for Europe conference in 
Brussels. "I mean, certainly our costs are reasonably robust for the next 12 months."
Among the costs Ryanair will need to bear is the war-fuelled increase in oil prices. 
O'Leary said in early March that the impact on oil prices would cost the airline an additional 50m even though 
Ryanair hedged out its fuel needs to March next year. 
"We do have a 20 per cent [to be bought] and that will cost us probably another 50m over the next 12 months, 
which is not a huge amount but it certainly makes the post-Covid recovery much more difficult."
Despite difficulties, the airline expects traffic to grew from between 95 and 98 million registered this year to 165 
million in FY2023.
Ryanair expects annual losses near middle of forecast range
"Pre-pandemic we carried around 150 million passengers, this year we expect to increase that to 165 million," 
O'Leary said.
Read more
Lufthansa's boss 'open to all options' on ITA equity stake
The post Ryanair expects annual losses near middle of forecast range  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 31, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair boss O’Leary expresses doubts over Boeing deliveries
Ryanair boss O’Leary expresses doubts over Boeing deliveries
Cityam.com
September 7, 2022 Wednesday 4:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 249 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary has voiced doubts over Boeing’s ability to deliver an order of 737 MAX 
aircraft.  “They are running late at the moment, there are problems with production in Seattle and we want to 
understand those problems,” O’Leary told journalists on Wednesday.  According to the chief executive, Ryanair has 
ordered 210 737 MAX [...]The post Ryanair boss O’Leary expresses doubts over Boeing deliveries appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary has voiced doubts over Boeing’s ability to deliver an order of 737 MAX aircraft. 
“They are running late at the moment, there are problems with production in Seattle and we want to understand 
those problems,” O’Leary told journalists on Wednesday. 
According to the chief executive, Ryanair has ordered 210 737 MAX and received 73 by June, with a further 21 due 
by the end of this year. 
The 21 aircraft are part of an additional order of 51, which was due by the end of April. 
The airline is set to meet with Boeing later this month to work out when it will get the 51 planes.
“At the moment I don’t trust what the Boeing team in Seattle are telling us because they keep letting us down,” the 
Ryanair boss added. 
Commenting on the news, a Boeing spokesperson said: “We value our partnership with Ryanair and are committed 
to supporting them.”
Ryanair said last week that it would continue growing  despite a looming recession in the UK as people will continue 
to travel.
“People in a recession will get much more price sensitive,” O’Leary told journalists on 30 August.
“We will see a much larger number of people trading down from British Airways and Easyjet.”
Ryanair boss O’Leary expresses doubts over Boeing deliveries
To monetise on Brits’ appetite for cheap travel, Ryanair announced on the same day it was adding 21 routes to its 
UK winter schedule.
Read more
TfL warns of Boris bikes’ suspension this weekend amid e-bikes roll-out
The post Ryanair boss O’Leary expresses doubts over Boeing deliveries  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 7, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair and BA under fire for turning away Ukrainian refugees
Ryanair and BA under fire for turning away Ukrainian refugees
Cityam.com
April 14, 2022 Thursday 1:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 525 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair and British Airways (BA) have come under fire after Ukrainian refugees fleeing from the horrors 
of Russia's war were reportedly turned away. The low-cost carrier allegedly turned people down because they could 
not access their boarding passes, threatening them with £50 fees if they couldn't print their tickets. According to the 
Times, 30-year old [...]The post Ryanair and BA under fire for turning away Ukrainian refugees appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair and British Airways (BA) have come under fire after Ukrainian refugees fleeing from the horrors of Russia's 
war were reportedly turned away.
The low-cost carrier allegedly turned people down because they could not access their boarding passes, 
threatening them with £50 fees if they couldn't print their tickets.
According to the Times, 30-year old Vera Muminova - alongside husband Azamat and their two-year old daughter - 
left Kiev last week and travelled to Krakow to become a refugee in the UK under the government Homes for 
Ukraine scheme.
Once arrived at the airport, Ryanair staff allegedly demanded they paid £50 boarding pass reissuing fee, forcing the 
family to miss their plane once it was clear they could not afford the amount.
"I can't believe they've been treated like this. This is not an isolated case," said Michelina Primrose, the Muminovas' 
UK sponsor. 
"Why couldn't they waiver or print their tickets, instead of making them feel stupid and like they were criminals like 
they did? They carried on as if it was too much hassle."
The carrier denied all accusations, saying the family was not charged the amount in question and that they missed 
their flight because of the time it took to verify Muminov's Turkmen passport. 
Ryanair and BA under fire for turning away Ukrainian refugees
"At no stage was Mr. Muminov or his family requested to pay a 60 boarding card re-issue fee," said a company 
spokesperson. "They were re-accommodated on a later flight on the same day from Krakow to Stansted on three 
tickets which cost less than £95 each.
"Ryanair will be happy to refund Mr. Muminov or Mr. Primrose the 1,600 Polish Zloty (approx. £285) they paid for 
their later flights from Krakow to Stansted."
The Muminovs' alleged case is apparently not an isolated one. 
A 15-year-old Ukrainian boy was not allowed to board a Ryanair flight because he was an unaccompanied minor, 
even though he had a UK visa and documents signed by his parents attesting he could travel alone.
His aunt, who lives in Leicestershire, booked him another flight on Wizz Air, which allows minors to travel alone.
Ryanair is not the only one to have turned away Ukrainians. BA apologised today after it didn't allow a family of 
three - grandmother, mother and daughter - to board despite them having the correct documents, the Guardian 
reported.
68-year-old Vira Rybalchenko - who was travelling alongside her 37-year-old daughter Hanna Zakhovaieva and 
eight-year-old granddaughter Sofiia -was told by BA staff she couldn't board without her original passport, despite 
being reassured by the British embassy of the contrary. 
The airline, after being contacted by the Guardian, issued an apology to the family, who is now safe in the UK after 
boarding another flight. 
"We're very sorry for the genuine error made by our team when trying to follow Home Office guidance and we've 
put measures in place to ensure this doesn't happen again," BA said.
"We're making contact with the family to apologise and will be providing a full refund of their tickets."
Read more
Google faces hefty fine from Russian watchdog over 'fake' YouTube news
The post Ryanair and BA under fire for turning away Ukrainian refugees  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 14, 2022
End of Document
More strikes: RMT follows in Aslef’s footsteps with rail walkouts in February
More strikes: RMT follows in Aslef’s footsteps with rail walkouts in February
Cityam.com
January 17, 2023 Tuesday 4:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 253 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Rail union the RMT has followed in Aslef’s footsteps from Tuesday morning and announced two days of 
strikes in early February. Train drivers working at 14 companies – including Govia Thameslink and C2C – said they 
will down tools on 1 and 3 February after rejecting an eight per cent pay increase over two years. [...]The post More 
strikes: RMT follows in Aslef’s footsteps with rail walkouts in February appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Rail union the RMT has followed in Aslef’s footsteps from Tuesday morning and announced two days of strikes in 
early February. 
Train drivers working at 14 companies – including Govia Thameslink and C2C – said they will down tools on 1 and 
3 February after rejecting an eight per cent pay increase over two years.
The walkout on 1 February – which will involve a few hundreds of RMT members – will coincide with the industrial 
action called by train drivers members of the union Aslef , while thousands of civil servants and teachers will walk 
out on 1 February.
Read more
Train drivers will strike AGAIN in February with Thameslink and Gatwick Express to be disrupted
“Our negotiations will continue with the rail operators to create a package on jobs, conditions and pay that can be 
offered to our members,” said RMT’s general secretary Mick Lynch.
Lynch’s words echoed those of Aslef’s boss Mick Whelan, who deemed the pay offer “clearly unacceptable.”
“They want to rip up our terms and conditions in return for a real-terms pay cut,” Whelan said earlier today.
“It was clearly a rushed offer, made just before our meeting with the minister, and not one, it seems to me, that was 
designed to be accepted.”
The Rail Delivery Group – which negotiates on behalf of train operators – was approached for comment.
More strikes: RMT follows in Aslef’s footsteps with rail walkouts in February
Read more
Plane not train: Cornwall set for further tourist spike as Ryanair launches London-Newquay route
The post More strikes: RMT follows in Aslef’s footsteps with rail walkouts in February  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 17, 2023
End of Document
Border Force strike: Suella Braverman warns Britons to ‘think carefully’ about Christmas plans
Border Force strike: Suella Braverman warns Britons to ‘think carefully’ 
about Christmas plans
Cityam.com
December 8, 2022 Thursday 2:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 208 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Home secretary Suella Braverman has warned Britons going away for the festive period to “think 
carefully” about their Christmas plans. Braverman’s remarks come after Border Force staff at several UK airports – 
including Heathrow and Gatwick – announced their plans to strike for eight days, between 23 and 26 as well as 28 
and 31 [...]The post Border Force strike: Suella Braverman warns Britons to ‘think carefully’ about Christmas plans 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Home secretary Suella Braverman has warned Britons going away for the festive period to “think carefully” about 
their Christmas plans. 
Braverman’s remarks come after Border Force staff at several UK airports – including Heathrow and Gatwick – 
announced their plans to strike for eight days, between 23 and 26 as well as 28 and 31 December.
Despite the walkout  impacting the journey of thousands of travellers, the secretary said she wasn’t willing to 
compromise on the country’s security.
“Ultimately, I’m not willing to compromise on security at the border, that’s the number one priority,” Braverman told 
Sky News. 
Data from aviation analytics firm Cirium showed more than 2 million passengers will be affected by the strikes, with 
over 1.5 million at Heathrow and Gatwick. 
Nevertheless, the government has already come up with contingency plans. 
Aviation minister Baroness Vere told journalists earlier this week the government was already liaising with third 
parties, including the army, to guarantee a smooth run of operations. 
Read more
Border Force strike: Suella Braverman warns Britons to ‘think carefully’ about Christmas plans
Ryanair: O’Leary’s contract extended until 2028 as £86m bonus still on cards
The post Border Force strike: Suella Braverman warns Britons to ‘think carefully’ about Christmas plans  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 8, 2022
End of Document
EU agrees sanctions against Belarus for Ryanair 'hijacking'
EU agrees sanctions against Belarus for Ryanair 'hijacking'
Cityam.com
June 18, 2021 Friday 6:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 247 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: The EU has today agreed economic sanctions against Belarus after Alexander Lukashenko's regime 
forced a flight to land to detainThe post EU agrees sanctions against Belarus for Ryanair 'hijacking' appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
The EU has today agreed economic sanctions against Belarus after Alexander Lukashenko's regime forced a flight 
to land to detain a dissident journalist.
The Austrian foreign ministry and a number of dissidents said that a technical agreement on the sanctions, the 
toughest yet response to the incident, had been reached.
The punishment, if they are agreed at the political level, includes a ban on new loans, a ban on EU investors from 
trading securities or buying short-term bonds and a ban on EU banks from providing investment services.
"With this agreement the EU is sending a clear and targeted signal against the Belarusian regime's unbearable acts 
of repression," the Austrian foreign ministry said in a statement.
EU leaders meet next Thursday for a summit. It was not yet clear if they will approve the deal agreed by expert 
officials.
On May 23 Lukashenko's regime scrambled fighter jets to escort a Ryanair flight carrying journalist Roman 
Protasevich to Minsk. He said that 26-year-old was plotting rebellion against him.
The move met with outrage from global leaders, who called it an act of state piracy. 
The arrest came after months of protests against Lukashenko, who won reelection in a controversial poll last 
August.
The EU has already imposed three rounds of sanctions on individuals, including Lukashenko, since last year, 
freezing their assets in the EU and banning travel. 
EU agrees sanctions against Belarus for Ryanair 'hijacking'
The post EU agrees sanctions against Belarus for Ryanair 'hijacking'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 18, 2021
End of Document
Low-cost airlines report strong September as people continue to travel
Low-cost airlines report strong September as people continue to travel
Cityam.com
October 4, 2022 Tuesday 1:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 350 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Low-cost carriers, such as Ryanair and Wizz Air, have reported a strong September, as people across 
Europe continue to travel against the backdrop of a volatile economic climate. Ryanair reported that 15.9 million 
passengers flew aboard its planes last month – making September the second-busiest month ever after August’s 
record 16.9 million travellers.  The carrier’s [...]The post Low-cost airlines report strong September as people 
continue to travel appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Low-cost carriers, such as Ryanair and Wizz Air, have reported a strong September, as people across Europe 
continue to travel against the backdrop of a volatile economic climate.
Ryanair reported that 15.9 million passengers flew aboard its planes last month – making September the second-
busiest month ever after August’s record 16.9 million travellers. 
The carrier’s load factor also increased, going up 13 per cent on pre-Covid levels to 94% per cent. 
The airliner – which expects to carry 166.5 million people in the year to the end of March – said it will continue to 
grow, even amidst an economic recession.
“People in a recession will get much more price sensitive,” chief executive Michael O’Leary told reporters in late 
August. 
“We will see a much larger number of people trading down from British Airways and Easyjet.”
To capitalise on people’s appetite for cheap travel, Ryanair added 21 routes to its UK schedule, while rival Wizz Air 
expanded operations in eastern Europe and Italy.
The Budapest-based airline carried 4.6 million passengers in September – 51 per cent up on 2021 level – with a 
load factor of 87 per cent. 
Low-cost airlines report strong September as people continue to travel
Numbers, however, went down slightly from the summer peak of July and August, which reported 4.7 and 4.9 
million people respectively. 
Francesco Ragni, aviation professor at Buckinghamshire New University, said the data was “an encouraging sign” 
the industry will be far less impacted by current political and economic downturns. 
“If the economic and political situation doesn’t worsen, traffic in western Europe will continue to remain strong,” he 
told City A.M.
Ragni’s words were echoed by travel expert Rob Staines who said many people will continue to travel, especially 
after two years of pandemic. 
“Many though, after years of lockdowns, will be unwilling to forego a foreign holiday by any means – it may mean 
being more savvy and making cost savings at every possible opportunity,” he added.
Read more
Truss: Cancelled 45p tax cut was never a ‘priority policy’
The post Low-cost airlines report strong September as people continue to travel  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 4, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers creep back to pre-pandemic normality
Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers creep back to pre-pandemic 
normality
Cityam.com
October 4, 2021 Monday 2:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 314 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: After a turbulent 2020, Ryanair and Wizz Air appear set for smoother skies with passenger numbers on 
the up. BothThe post Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers highlight aviation's journey back to normality 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
After a turbulent 2020, Ryanair and Wizz Air appear set for smoother skies with passenger numbers on the up.
Both firms reported increase in passenger traffic in September 2021 compared to last year. 
According to passenger traffic data published on the London Stock Exchange, Ryanair's passenger numbers 
increased to 10.6m compared to 5.2m recorded in September 2020, an 81 per cent increase.
Wizz Air registered similar results, going up 91.3 per cent, from 1.5m passengers in September of last year to 2.9m 
at the end of last month. 
Alongside the traffic statistics, the Budapest-based company also decided to publish its carbon emissions data, 
highlighting a 15.9 per cent decrease when it comes to carbon dioxide released per passenger. 
Compared to January this year, the company in August and September decreased its emissions per passenger/km, 
from 79.2 grams per passenger/km to 60.4 and 68.0 grams respectively.
Published on the same day as the UK simplified its travel system , the data suggests a quicker recovery of the 
aviation sector than many expected may be on the way. 
According to Francesco Ragni, senior lecturer in aviation at Buckinghamshire New University, air travel is "gradually 
coming back" and low-cost airlines will benefit more from it. 
Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers creep back to pre-pandemic normality
"Both Ryanair and Wizz Air have done a great job in constantly adjusting their network in order to intercept demand 
and in maintaining the flexibility to scale up their operations at a relatively short notice, while continuing to offer very 
low fare," he told City A.M. 
"As more travel restrictions are lifted, I think we are going to see further growth in the coming months."
                     Read more:                      Ryanair boss: EasyJet and WizzAir merger would be 'sensible development'
The post Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers highlight aviation's journey back to normality  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 4, 2021
End of Document
Take off: Ryanair to recruit 2,000 pilots as it prepares for travel rebound
Take off: Ryanair to recruit 2,000 pilots as it prepares for travel rebound
Cityam.com
July 12, 2021 Monday 11:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 295 words
Byline: Victoria Armstrong
Highlight: Take off: Ryanair to recruit 2,000 pilots as it prepares for travel market recoverThe post Take off: 
Ryanair to recruit 2,000 pilots as it prepares for travel market recovery appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Budget carrier Ryanair will hire 2,000 new pilots after the Covid-19 pandemic decimated the travel industry and 
caused many to lose their jobs. 
The recruits are to crew planes over the next three years to aid the airline in recovering and rebuilding itself after 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Pilots will be based across Ryanair's existing network. The company is also setting up new bases in places 
likeCorfu, Rhodes, Zagreb, Riga, Treviso, Turin and more.
Ryanair's people director, Darrell Hughes said, "This is great news for experienced and aspiring pilots but also for 
our own pilots who will enjoy fast tracked promotions. 
Throughout the pandemic, Ryanair has worked closely with our people to save jobs and we are delighted to start 
planning for a return to growth over the coming years as we recover from the Covid-19 crisis and grow to 200m 
guests by FY2024''.
The aviation industry came to a standstill due to restrictions and saw more than 18,000 pilots lose their job 
permanently or have it threatened. Over 800 of those who lose their jobs were pilots from Ryanair, according to the 
European Cockpit Association.
The news comes as Ryanair will now fly the Boeing 737-8200 Gamechanger aircraft, a more sustainable aircraft to 
previous ones. 
Ryanair plans to use the aircraft to lower costs, cut fuel consumption and lower noise and CO2 emissions. The 
investment was undertaken as part of the Irish company's commitment to the environment, ensuring that they stay 
one of Europe's greenest and cleanest airlines.
Take off: Ryanair to recruit 2,000 pilots as it prepares for travel rebound
The airline will take on 210 of these aircrafts, helping create opportunities for pilots after the aviation industry 
recovers from Covid-19. 
The post Take off: Ryanair to recruit 2,000 pilots as it prepares for travel market recovery  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 12, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair boss: EasyJet and Whizz merger would be 'sensible development'
Ryanair boss: EasyJet and Whizz merger would be 'sensible development'
Cityam.com
September 22, 2021 Wednesday 8:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 220 words
Byline: Emily Hawkins
Highlight: Ryanair's boss has doubled down on his point that rivals EasyJet and WizzAir will not survive as 
independent airlines withoutThe post Ryanair boss: EasyJet and Whizz merger would be 'sensible development' 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair's boss has doubled down on his point that rivals EasyJet and WizzAir will not survive as independent 
airlines without a merger.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said it would be a "sensible development," for the airlines to merge in the future 
and there was industry-consensus there would be "more consolidation across Europe" post-Covid.
"I'm not sure if Whizz or easyJet can survive as independent airlines because they're not able to compete with 
Ryanair on cost," O'Leary said, speaking on Sky News on Wednesday morning.
If they did not merge together, they were likely to merge with other airlines, the CEO added.
"(It is) complete nonsense," EasyJet CEO Johan Lundgren told Reuters, in response to O'Leary's previous claims. 
"I would urge anyone who runs an airline to focus on their own business rather than speculate about others, 
(where) they have no idea about what's going on."
He said easyJet was not opposed in principle to consolidation carried out in the form of external transactions.
"It's like a family or a marriage, we differ from time to time," Rynair's boss said on Wednesday. He said the most 
important thing was "good, healthy competition" that results in customers getting the best deal.
The post Ryanair boss: EasyJet and Whizz merger would be 'sensible development'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 22, 2021
Ryanair boss: EasyJet and Whizz merger would be 'sensible development'
End of Document
Govt will not introduce airport-specific EU visas, says aviation minister
Govt will not introduce airport-specific EU visas, says aviation minister
Cityam.com
December 6, 2022 Tuesday 1:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 393 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: In a bid to strengthen its UK workforce, the government will not introduce any specific visas for EU 
labourers to help airports with staffing levels. Aviation minister Baroness Vere told journalists it was up to everyone 
working in the sector to establish a “sustainable and secure UK workforce that meets our needs, [and] that is 
[...]The post Govt will not introduce airport-specific EU visas, says aviation minister appeared first on CityAM.
Body
In a bid to strengthen its UK workforce, the government will not introduce any specific visas for EU labourers to help 
airports with staffing levels.
Aviation minister Baroness Vere told journalists it was up to everyone working in the sector to establish a 
“sustainable and secure UK workforce that meets our needs, [and] that is diverse and skilled.”
“Working with the sector, I think we can get through staffing challenges,” she added. 
Post-Brexit labour rules have often been highlighted as one of the main issues affecting the UK travel and tourism 
sector, leading to issues such as this summer’s travel chaos. 
Industry stakeholders such as Ryanair and Easyjet have repeatedly called on the UK Government to implement 
post-Brexit labour laws with a bit more common sense. 
Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary  said this summer that he could get visas for extra-EU workers easier than for EU 
nationals. 
Nevertheless, the government has always maintained that Brexit didn’t play a part in disruption at airports.
“I’m sure many saw what happened to the aviation sector in Europe and in the US, as they also struggled 
significantly,” Baroness Vere commented. 
“What happened at Schiphol was way worse than anything we saw in the UK.”
Govt will not introduce airport-specific EU visas, says aviation minister
Vere’s comments come as Mark Tanzer, chief executive of trade body ABTA, called on ministers to consider 
extending the Youth Mobility Scheme to individual EU countries on a bilateral basis. 
The Youth Mobility Scheme is a visa that allows young people from specific countries to live in the UK for up to two 
years. 
As of now, only a handful of countries take part in the scheme – including Australia, New Zealand and India.
“This would be a pragmatic move, in the absence of our negotiating a wider mobility chapter within the UK-EU trade 
deal, which is not due to be opened until 2025,” Tanzer said. 
According to Joss Croft, chief executive of tourism body UKInbound, labour shortages are not the only ones 
hindering the sector.
“A lot of my members need people who have those overseas languages and they’re really struggling to find them 
within the UK nowadays,” he said.
“These are European languages that UK nationals just aren’t doing at the moment.”
Read more
FCA tightens financial promotion rules over risky investment fears
The post Govt will not introduce airport-specific EU visas, says aviation minister  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 6, 2022
End of Document
Airlines feel the pinch from aircraft rental costs
Airlines feel the pinch from aircraft rental costs
Cityam.com
October 31, 2023 Tuesday 4:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 521 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Airlines are feeling the pinch from soaring aircraft rental costs, as delays at Boeing and Airbus collide 
with resurgent demand for travel.
Body
Airlines are feeling the pinch from soaring aircraft rental costs, as delays at Boeing and Airbus collide with resurgent 
demand for travel.
Rates to rent new aircraft, charged by leasing companies, are higher now than they have ever been, according to 
the aviation market intelligence group IBA. 
Prices for the best-selling Airbus A320neo are floating at around $420,000 (£346,000), while the Boeing 737 Max 8 
sits at approximately $375,000.
New delivery narrowbody aircrafts have seen double-digit annual increases of as much as 15.7 per cent, with 
further growth forecast into early 2024, the IBA’s figures show.
“Supply chain issues affecting new aircraft production, along with pilot and labour shortages and ongoing quality 
and durability issues with the latest generation of engines, are contributing to a capacity constrained environment in 
which lease rates are expected to grow further,” Mike Yeomans, director of valuations and consulting at IBA, 
toldCity A.M.
Most aircraft leases are agreed at fixed rates, with standard terms ranging from 10 to 12 years for new aircraft. 
Yeomans warned airlines could be locked into the new, higher fees “well into the next decade”.
While the effect is more pronounced in the short-haul narrowbody market, which typically has higher levels of 
leasing, some widebody crafts have also seen double-digit per cent jumps.
Airbus has been working rapidly to ramp up production of its A320 family, with its backlog now stretching into the 
2030s. Ryanair has been highly critical of delays at its rival Boeing, whose chief executive has warned that supply 
issues could drag out for half a decade.
Airlines feel the pinch from aircraft rental costs
Marion Geoffroy, Wizz Air’s UK chief executive, toldCity A.M. in an interview that it was taking “more time to get the 
parts and materials”.
“There is shortage of labour everywhere in the world. We see the manufacturers Airbus says the same thing, 
Boeing says the same thing. So yeah, there are definitely constraints.”
The situation was worsened by a production snag  at engine-maker Pratt and Whitney over summer, which forced 
the recall of 1,000 engines earlier in the year.
The record rental costs have come as airlines face a string of issues emerging from what was a record season of 
summer travel. Rising oil prices, worsened by the Israel-Gaza conflict, have sent shares at numerous airlines 
plunging in recent weeks amid concern over the price of jet fuel.
Stephen Furlong, transport and equity analyst at Davy, said: “I would agree that there is clear upward pressure on 
lease rates which can have a negative effect on airline earnings.”
But he said other variables including “labour, fuel and underlying unit revenue will have a more fundamental 
impact”.
Rob Morris, head of consultancy at Cirium Ascend toldCity A.M. “while it isn’t helpful for airlines to see higher 
leasing costs, the additional cost pressures exerted by higher fuel prices, increasing staff costs, increasing 
maintenance costs and increasing service charges are all contributing to increased airline costs, which will 
inevitably lead to higher ticket prices.”
Read more
Aircraft leasers and asset managers leap on jet shortages
Load-Date: October 31, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair shares soar as carrier aims to fly 225m passengers a year by 2026
Ryanair shares soar as carrier aims to fly 225m passengers a year by 2026
Cityam.com
September 16, 2021 Thursday 7:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 365 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Shares in Ryanair are flying today after it announced that it now expects to fly 225m passengers a year 
byThe post Ryanair shares soar as carrier aims to fly 225m passengers a year by 2026 appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Shares in Ryanair are flying today after it announced that it now expects to fly 225m passengers a year by March 
2026, a 25m hike on its previous target.
By the midmorning, shares were up 6.7 per cent.
In a statement ahead of today's AGM, the Irish carrier said that it now expected to see traffic growth of 50 per cent - 
compared to pre-Covid levels - up from past estimates of 33 per cent.
For the last full year of flying before the pandemic struck, Ryanair carried a record 149m passengers. This year, as 
a result of continuing restrictions and lengthy lockdowns, it is targeting 100m passengers.
The growth will be driven by the delivery of 210 new Boeing 737 Max jets over the next five years.
It said that the new planes would allow the carrier to accelerate its growth "as opportunities open up at primary and 
secondary airports all over Europe, particularly where legacy carriers have failed or reduced fleet sizes as a result 
of Covid and state aid". 
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said: "With these new deliveries, Ryanair will open 10 new bases across Europe 
this year as we work with airport partners to help them recover traffic & jobs post Covid, and take up slot 
opportunities that are being vacated by competitor airlines who have collapsed or significantly reduced their fleet 
sizes.
"The Covid-19 pandemic has delivered an unprecedented blow to Europe's aviation and tourism industries", he 
added. 
Ryanair shares soar as carrier aims to fly 225m passengers a year by 2026
"Only Ryanair has used this crisis to place significantly increased aircraft orders, to expand our airport partnerships, 
and to secure lower operating costs so that we can pass on even lower fares to our guests, so that together with 
our airport partners, we can recover strongly from the Covid pandemic and deliver higher than expected growth in 
both traffic and jobs over the next 5 years."
O'Leary has been typically bullish in recent weeks over the carrier's prospects, saying it is outpacing all of its rivals 
in the UK and Europe.
The carrier topped its own forecasts for passenger numbers in August, and is now calling for a total relaxing of 
travel restrictions.
The post Ryanair shares soar as carrier aims to fly 225m passengers a year by 2026  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 16, 2021
End of Document
Gutsy Loungers sees motorway’s Brightside as retailer launches entire new restaurant chain
Gutsy Loungers sees motorway’s Brightside as retailer launches entire new 
restaurant chain
Cityam.com
November 7, 2022 Monday 7:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 230 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Loungers announced today the launch of a new roadside restaurant brand called Brightside, amid a 
volatile economic environment. The UK cafe and restaurant operator said it has acquired three sites, with the first 
one set to open on the A38, south of Exeter, in February. The other two sites will open on the A303 and [...]The 
post Gutsy Loungers sees motorway’s Brightside as retailer launches entire new restaurant chain appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Loungers announced today the launch of a new roadside restaurant brand called Brightside, amid a volatile 
economic environment.
The UK cafe and restaurant operator  said it has acquired three sites, with the first one set to open on the A38, 
south of Exeter, in February. 
The other two sites will open on the A303 and A38, near Saltash, in the spring. 
“We believe there is a gap in the market for a fresh concept that gives customers the option to take a proper break 
and enjoy wholesome food and great hospitality, in a landscape that is currently dominated by drive-thru and quick 
service restaurants (QSR) formats,” said Alex Reilley, Loungers’ chairman and founder. 
“We believe that Brightside will really shake up what has become an uninspiring sector and that there is potential to 
roll out Brightside across the UK in the coming years.”
Just like Loungers’ brands Lounge and Cosy Club, Brightside will focus on all-day-dining at a value-for-money price. 
“Our expertise in high-quality, great value all-day dining, developed through Lounge and Cosy Club, gives us 
confidence that Brightside can bring proper hospitality back to roadside dining across the UK,” the chairman added. 
Read more
Gutsy Loungers sees motorway’s Brightside as retailer launches entire new restaurant chain
Ryanair’s half-year profit jumps following record summer traffic
The post Gutsy Loungers sees motorway’s Brightside as retailer launches entire new restaurant chain  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 7, 2022
End of Document
Summer fares will be up between 7 and 9 per cent, says Ryanair boss
Summer fares will be up between 7 and 9 per cent, says Ryanair boss
Cityam.com
June 14, 2022 Tuesday 3:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 234 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Travellers need to be ready as summer fares will be up between 7 and 9 per cent, said Ryanair’s boss 
Michael O’Leary. According to the chief executive, bookings are strengthening while June load factor has reached 
94 per cent of 2019 levels. “And July, August, and September look very strong with higher load factors and [...]The 
post Summer fares will be up between 7 and 9 per cent, says Ryanair boss appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Travellers need to be ready as summer fares will be up between 7 and 9 per cent, said Ryanair’s boss Michael 
O’Leary.
According to the chief executive, bookings are strengthening while June load factor has reached 94 per cent of 
2019 levels. 
“And July, August, and September look very strong with higher load factors and also higher fares,” he told Reuters. 
“Fares will be up probably high single digits 7,8,9 percent over summer 2019.”
O’Leary added that travel disruption will improve over the summer as the sector ramps up staff levels.
Ryanair was one of the few airlines that was almost not affected by disruption over the half-term and Bank Holiday 
period. 
To help airports handle the lengthy queues, the Irish businessman called on the government to send in the army. 
“Bringing in the army, which they do and many other European airports, would, at a stroke, relieve the pressure on 
airport security and would mean that people have a much better experience – not just this weekend, but for each 
weekend over the next three, four months,” he told the Telegraph on 2 June. 
The carrier could still face disruption as Spanish and Portuguese cabin staff are set to strike between late June and 
early July. 
Read more
Summer fares will be up between 7 and 9 per cent, says Ryanair boss
Execs from TUI, EasyJet and British Airways grilled over role in Bank Holiday travel chaos
The post Summer fares will be up between 7 and 9 per cent, says Ryanair boss  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 14, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair beats August passenger number forecasts as holidaymakers escape UK
Ryanair beats August passenger number forecasts as holidaymakers escape 
UK
Cityam.com
September 2, 2021 Thursday 8:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 313 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Budget carrier Ryanair beat its passenger number targets for August as holidaymakers took advantage 
of looser travel restrictions to seekThe post Ryanair beats August passenger number forecasts as holidaymakers 
escape to the sun appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Budget carrier Ryanair beat its passenger number targets for August as holidaymakers took advantage of looser 
travel restrictions to seek the European sunshine.
The Irish airline flew 11.1m passengers last month, more than the 10.5m it had previously predicted, and double the 
number it carried in June.
On Tuesday chief executive Michael O'Leary said that the carrier was on track to fly 100m passengers this year, 
with monthly numbers expected to hit 10.5m for each of the next three months.
In 2019, Ryanair flew a record 149m passengers, before the pandemic grounded planes and all but shut down air 
travel.
This morning Wizz Air also revealed that passenger numbers had jumped 50 per cent in August in another sign that 
travel is beginning to take off.
The UK's stringent travel restrictions were eased at the end of July to allow double vaccinated people to travel to 
most European destinations and return without needing to quarantine.
Although this helped encourage people back onto flights, O'Leary said that the government should scrap all travel 
restrictions for fully vaccinated people, including testing requirements.
He also said that the UK should join the EU's digital Covid "vaccine passport" in order to encourage more European 
passengers to visit the country over the winter period.
Ryanair beats August passenger number forecasts as holidaymakers escape UK
"Americans and Asians are not going to come to the UK this winter, so we need to encourage Europeans to do so 
instead.
"We have to make it easier [for them to come]. Pissing about with all these PCR tests... is nonsensical."
Next summer Ryanair will take delivery of 60 new Boeing 737 aircraft, which O'Leary said would help the carrier 
snap up the spare capacity left behind by failed carriers like Flybe.
By 2025, the carrier is targeting flying 200m passengers a year. 
The post Ryanair beats August passenger number forecasts as holidaymakers escape to the sun  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 2, 2021
End of Document
Wizz Air to report heavy losses after fuel price spike – but is a recovery on the horizon?
Wizz Air to report heavy losses after fuel price spike – but is a recovery on 
the horizon?
Cityam.com
June 4, 2023 Sunday 12:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 282 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Analysts expect Wizz Air to report a net loss of nearly half a billion pounds this week as soaring jet fuel 
costs weigh the budget airline down. Aarin Chiekrie, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said while a 
strengthening Euro offered some relief to rising fuel costs, “these still rose by north of 60 per cent [...]The post Wizz 
Air to report heavy losses after fuel price spike – but is a recovery on the horizon? appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Analysts expect Wizz Air to report a net loss of nearly half a billion pounds this week as soaring jet fuel costs weigh 
the budget airline down. 
Aarin Chiekrie, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said while a strengthening Euro offered some relief to rising 
fuel costs, “these still rose by north of 60 per cent last quarter, leading the group to expect an overall net loss in 
next week’s results”. 
But analysts said it was not all doom and gloom for Wizz Air. 
Many airlines have seen a surge in traffic and bookings in recent months,  as customers opt for more trips abroad 
despite the ongoing cost of living crisis.
Last week, the carrier reported a 22.1 per cent year-on-year rise in passenger numbers in its May 2023 traffic 
figures, with its rival Ryanair also hitting similar numbers. 
Conroy Gaynor, an aviation analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence, said that although “heavy losses” are expected, Wizz 
Air may have reached a “turning point.”
“Peers are showing strong bookings and a decline in jet fuel prices renders costs more manageable,” Gaynor said. 
Wizz Air, however, has come under heavy scrutiny for its consistently poor performance recently, after a Sunday 
Times investigation revealed that the carrier owed Brits £5m in unpaid refunds and is yet to pay out across 881 
separate court judgements.
Wizz Air to report heavy losses after fuel price spike – but is a recovery on the horizon?
“It’ll be interesting to see if low costs continue to trump poor service, especially as consumers’ disposable incomes 
remain stretched by the cost-of-living crisis,” Chiekrie added. 
Read more
Wizz Air owes Brits £5m in unpaid refunds, investigation reveals
The post Wizz Air to report heavy losses after fuel price spike – but is a recovery on the horizon?  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 4, 2023
End of Document
Analysis: Airlines are not the culprit of this week’s travel disaster
Analysis: Airlines are not the culprit of this week’s travel disaster
Cityam.com
August 30, 2023 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 502 words
Byline: Elena Siniscalco
Highlight: Everyone loves to hate the airlines – and often, for good reasons. Prices have skyrocketed, with airlines 
able to pump up the cost of their flights, especially over summer, knowing that people who want to go abroad and 
can afford it will pay whatever they have to. To get to some places, there is simply [...]
Body
Everyone loves to hate the airlines – and often, for good reasons. Prices have skyrocketed, with airlines able to 
pump up the cost of their flights, especially over summer, knowing that people who want to go abroad and can 
afford it will pay whatever they have to. To get to some places, there is simply no alternative to a £250 easyJet 
flight. Passengers feel like airlines will soon make them pay even for the air they breathe in their aircraft.
But in the travel chaos of the past few days, airlines are not the main culprits. Victims of a situation not of their own 
making, they’ve had to try to accommodate stranded passengers as best as they could, providing food, 
accommodation and alternatives. As an industry that always seems unprepared to deal with last minute changes, a 
lot of people have ended up sleeping on the floor in the airports, desperate for information about the next steps. 
But regardless of how successful the mitigation measures taken by the airlines were or weren’t, this week’s disaster 
is not their fault. Yet they’ll have to pay for it, with the cost of the entire mess expected to be around £100m, 
according to the International Air Transport Association.
The mayhem seen this week was in fact the fault of the agencies controlling the flow of flights and the airspace. 
Everything started on Monday – on a bank holiday day, to make matters worse – when an incorrect flight plan was 
filed into the National Air Traffic Services (Nats) system. The error should have simply been rejected, but instead it 
caused the breakdown of parts of the system. To avoid the wrong flight plan affecting all other flights, the system 
simply shut down.
Read more
Ryanair boss slams ‘unacceptable’ air traffic control chaos
Analysis: Airlines are not the culprit of this week’s travel disaster
This obviously shouldn’t have happened, and will be investigated by the Civil Aviation Authority. Nats was at pains 
to confirm the incident wasn’t caused by a cyber attack, which might feel like a meagre consolation to the 
thousands of people currently unable to get where they have to. Reports are now claiming that it was a French 
airline that filed that flight plan. It might turn the incident into another diplomatic battle between two neighbours who 
often bite at each other. 
The Nats system was reanimated three hours later on Monday, but the damage was already done. Hundreds of 
flights were cancelled, and delays were up to 12 hours. Airlines were often unable to confirm whether their flights 
would leave, understandably throwing passengers into a frenzy.
Things are getting better, but delays and cancellations are likely to last the entire week. Around 300,000 
passengers will be affected. 
Airlines are putting together repatriation flights to the UK from the main tourist destinations in Spain, Portugal and 
Greece. But a mistake of these proportions will leave a scar in the aviation sector. And a fight between Nats and the 
airlines about who’s meant to pay for the mess is shaping up.
Read more
Former British Airways boss criticises ‘staggering’ air traffic control failure
Load-Date: August 30, 2023
End of Document
Air traffic control chaos: Over a quarter of UK flights nixed as Heathrow crippled
Air traffic control chaos: Over a quarter of UK flights nixed as Heathrow 
crippled
Cityam.com
August 29, 2023 Tuesday 10:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 386 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Over a quarter of flights to and from UK airports were cancelled yesterday, revealing the huge and 
ongoing impact of the network-wide air traffic control failure currently disrupting the sector. According to aviation 
analytics firm Cirium, 790 departures and 785 arrivals were cancelled, equating to 27 per cent of all flights from the 
UK. Heathrow [...]
Body
Over a quarter of flights to and from UK airports were cancelled yesterday, revealing the huge and ongoing impact 
of the network-wide air traffic control failure currently disrupting the sector.
According to aviation analytics firm Cirium, 790 departures and 785 arrivals were cancelled, equating to 27 per cent 
of all flights from the UK.
Heathrow Airport was the worst hit, followed by Gatwick and Manchester. 
Thousands of Brits have faced delays and cancellations, with some left stranded in remote locations, as a result of 
a “technical issue” at the National Air Traffic Service (NATS) yesterday.
While NATS resolved the problem at 3.15pm on Monday, a host of major airlines including Easyjet, Ryanair and 
British Airways have slashed flights and warned that delays can be expected for many days to come.
Gatwick have confirmed that more than 70 flights in and out of the airport have already been cancelled this 
morning, while Heathrow has slashed 60.
A Heathrow spokesperson said that “schedules continue to be affected by yesterday’s restrictions on UK airspace.”
“While the majority of passengers will still be able to travel, there will unfortunately be some disruption on some 
routes, including flight cancellations.” 
BA have cancelled at least 60 flights, with a spokesperson stating operations had been “severely disrupted.”
Air traffic control chaos: Over a quarter of UK flights nixed as Heathrow crippled
“While NATS has now resolved the issue, it has created significant and unavoidable delays and cancellations.”
The cause of the incident is still unknown, but Transport Secretary Mark Harper ruled out a cybersecurity attack in 
this mornings’ media round.
An independent review by the UK’s aviation watchdog, the CAA, will be commissioned and delivered over the 
coming days.
Rob Bishton, interim chief executive at the CAA, said: “As part of our regulatory oversight of its activities, we 
continue to engage with NATS and once its investigation is fully complete, an incident report will be provided to the 
UK Civil Aviation Authority. The report’s outcomes will then be shared with the Secretary of State for Transport.
The disruption comes during one of the busiest summers of travel on record, in which airports and airlines have 
registered record demand for holidays amid a post-pandemic rebound.
Read more
UK transport is reliable, minister insists, despite flight disruption and rail strikes
Load-Date: August 29, 2023
End of Document
EP: 118 Cheltenham Festival - Day 3, Thursday
EP: 118 Cheltenham Festival - Day 3, Thursday
Cityam.com
March 15, 2022 Tuesday 12:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 326 words
Byline: The Punter Podcast
Highlight: The Cheltenham Festival celebrates St. Patrick's Day on Thursday with both the Ryanair and the 
Stayers' Hurdle featuring on another top quality card We are joined on the podcast today by jockey Davy Russell & 
trainer David Pipe City A.M. racing editor Bill Esdaile previews all the action at Prestbury Park. Hosted by Chris 
Barnett The Punter [...]The post EP: 118 Cheltenham Festival - Day 3, Thursday appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The Cheltenham Festival celebrates St. Patrick's Day on Thursday with both the Ryanair and the Stayers' Hurdle 
featuring on another top quality card
We are joined on the podcast today by jockey Davy Russell & trainer David Pipe
City A.M. racing editor Bill Esdaile previews all the action at Prestbury Park. Hosted by Chris Barnett
                     The Punter                   
'The Punter' has been City AM's dedicated sports betting section for over a decade with a primary focus on 
horseracing. Throughout the season 'The Punter' will preview the weekend's action every Friday along with in-depth 
coverage of all the major racing festivals. In a partnership with the Hong Kong Jockey Club, 'The Punter' also 
previews every midweek Wednesday Hong Kong meeting as well as all the major meetings.
Every Friday, and for all major racing Festivals, the City AM racing podcast will give you in-depth analysis of the 
action. Featuring interviews with leading trainers, jockeys and owners, the podcast is hosted by well-known racing 
broadcaster Chris Barnett who is joined by Bill Esdaile and Hong Kong racing expert Wally Pyrah.
                     Bill Esdaile                   
City AM's racing editor Bill Esdaile has written for the paper since 2008. He had previously written for publications 
including the Sporting Life, Racing Post and The Sportsman. Each week he picks out his best bets for the 
weekend's big racing action.
EP: 118 Cheltenham Festival - Day 3, Thursday
                     Chris Barnett                   
Chris Barnett has been a broadcasting specialist for over two decades, specialising in radio, video and podcast 
presentation and production. Since working at SIS, Betfair Radio, Timeform Radio, Royal Ascot, Glorious 
Goodwood, Cheltenham Festival Radio and more recently, Arena Racing, Chris has always been at the forefront of 
the top sporting events, grabbing interviews with those that matter.
The post EP: 118 Cheltenham Festival - Day 3, Thursday  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 15, 2022
End of Document
FTSE 100 close: London index muted amid Wall Street shut down for 4th July as Wizz Air soars
FTSE 100 close: London index muted amid Wall Street shut down for 4th 
July as Wizz Air soars
Cityam.com
July 4, 2023 Tuesday 8:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 378 words
Byline: Jack Barnett
Highlight: London’s FTSE 100 was muted on a quiet trading day globally due to Wall Street being shut for US 
Independence Day. The capital’s premier index edged 0.10 per cent lower to 7,519.73 points, while the 
domestically-focused mid-cap FTSE 250 index, which is more aligned with the health of the UK economy, added 
0.14 per cent [...]
Body
London’s FTSE 100 was muted on a quiet trading day globally due to Wall Street being shut for US Independence 
Day.
The capital’s premier index edged 0.10 per cent lower to 7,519.73 points, while the domestically-focused mid-cap 
FTSE 250 index, which is more aligned with the health of the UK economy, added 0.14 per cent to hit 18,533.79 
points.
Britain’s index of its largest companies struggled for conviction in opening exchanges in the City, a theme that 
analysts said could be a fixture of the day.
“The FTSE 100 started Tuesday flat and with the US markets largely closed for Independence Day it could struggle 
for direction throughout the trading session,” Russ Mould, investment director at broker AJ Bell, said.
London markets have been on a downward spiral since the US banking crises in March shook investor appetite. 
The FTSE 100 had breached the 8,000 point mark for the first time ever at the beginning of the year, before losing a 
large chunk of those gains.
So far in 2023, it is up a little over one per cent. The FTSE 250 is deep in the red.
One the UK’s largest supermarkets, Sainsbury’s, this morning said in results it had notched a near 10 per cent 
increase in like-for-like sales over the last quarter.
Despite that uplift, the grocer’s FTSE 100-listed shares tumbled, down near two per cent. 
FTSE 100 close: London index muted amid Wall Street shut down for 4th July as Wizz Air soars
Food retailers have come under the microscope for supposedly not passing on falls in global commodity prices to 
customers. The Competition and Markets Authority yesterday said a lack of competition among retailers who 
operate petrol forecourts has kept prices higher than they could have otherwise been.
Its boss, Simon Roberts, claimed that food price inflation has definitely passed its peak and will drop gradually as 
the year progresses. British Retail Consortium data reflects that sentiment. 
Budget Hungarian airline and FTSE 250-listed Wizz Air soared in the City this morning after it posted a 23 per cent 
boost in holidaymakers using their planes. That was bigger than competitor Ryanair’s uplift.
Wizz Air’s shares climbed 1.52 per cent on the news.
Pound sterling was up sharply against the US dollar by around 0.3 per cent.
Oil prices leapt around two per cent.
Read more
Rishi Sunak and Jeremy Hunt urged to raise investment to unlock £150bn economic boost
Load-Date: July 4, 2023
End of Document
TfL extends e-scooter trial until May 2024
TfL extends e-scooter trial until May 2024
Cityam.com
October 25, 2022 Tuesday 5:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 244 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: TfL has extended its e-scooter trial until the end of May 2024 following updated guidance from the DfT, 
which allows local authorities to continue for the next year and a half. The extension comes on the heels of the 
government deciding to create a new vehicle category in the legislation to include e-scooters. Launched in [...]The 
post TfL extends e-scooter trial until May 2024 appeared first on CityAM.
Body
TfL has extended its e-scooter trial until the end of May 2024 following updated guidance from the DfT, which 
allows local authorities to continue for the next year and a half.
The extension comes on the heels of the government deciding to create a new vehicle category in the legislation to 
include e-scooters.
Launched in June last year, the trial has been operated by TfL alongside operators Dott, Lime and TIER. 
As of today, it has almost 4,500 e-scooter available for hire. 
“The e-scooter trial has proven to be popular, with more than two million trips already taken, and this next phase of 
the trial will build upon this, replicating the high safety requirements and high operating standards, and continuing to 
learn through testing newer technology to ensure that these vehicles work for everybody,” said walking and cycling 
commissioner Will Norman. 
“With the right regulations that prioritise safety, rental e-scooters can help ensure a green, sustainable future for 
London.”
As part of the trial’s extension, TfL has also launched a competitive procurement for the trial’s three operators – 
Dott, Lime  and TIER – to run the next phase. 
Operators will be subjected to enhanced safety requirements and they will continue to provide feedback to TfL, as 
the information will help shape future legislation.
TfL extends e-scooter trial until May 2024
Read more
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: Worldwide inflation good for our growth
The post TfL extends e-scooter trial until May 2024  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 25, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair traffic soars as CEO pushes for Spain and Italy to join green llist
Ryanair traffic soars as CEO pushes for Spain and Italy to join green llist
Cityam.com
June 2, 2021 Wednesday 7:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 254 words
Byline: Josh Martin
Highlight: Ryanair traffic soars more than 2,400 per cent year-on-year in May as EU skies begin to reopenThe post 
Ryanair traffic soars while O'Leary pushes for Spain and Italy to join UK travel green list appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair welcomed 1.8m passengers onboard in May, up from just 70,000 in May 2020, a 2,470 per cent increase, 
but boss Michael O'Leary thinks the rebound would be better if Spain, Italy and Greece were promptly added to the 
UK's travel green list.
In April this year the Ryanair flew 1m passengers.
The surge in year-on-year passenger numbers reflects the fact that most of Europe was locked down and airports 
remained deserted a year ago during the pandemic's first wave.
Ryanair operated over 12,000 flights last month with a 79 per cent load factor, meaning four out of every five seats 
were taken.
O'Leary told Sky News this mornign that the current restrictions placed on travel between the UK and EU nations 
was "complete bonkers"
"The vaccination programme is now stopping transmission and now it's time that the UK, for June, July and August: 
add Italy, add Spain, add Greece to the green list".
Shares opened down 0.5 per cent today at 17 each.
O'Leary has been pushing the UK and European Union to reopen the skies and encourage tourism now that its 
most-vulnerable have been vaccinated.
O'Leary called on transport minister Grant Shapps to ease international travel rules within the bloc for anyone who 
has been fully vaccinated at the next review of the green list due this week.
Currently the UK does not reduce travel restrictions and Covid testing requirements for arrivals who are vaccinated.
Ryanair traffic soars as CEO pushes for Spain and Italy to join green llist
The post Ryanair traffic soars while O'Leary pushes for Spain and Italy to join UK travel green list  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 2, 2021
End of Document
CMA closes investigation into Ryanair and British Airways
CMA closes investigation into Ryanair and British Airways
Cityam.com
October 7, 2021 Thursday 8:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 315 words
Byline: Lily Russell-Jones
Highlight: The UK's competition watchdog has closed an investigation into the legality of airlines failing to refund 
passengers who were preventedThe post CMA closes investigation into Ryanair and British Airways appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
The UK's competition watchdog has closed an investigation into the legality of airlines failing to refund passengers 
who were prevented from flying by Covid restrictions.
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) launched an investigation in June 2021 after British Airways offered 
customers vouchers or rebooking and Ryanair provided the option to rebook flights which could not be taken during 
lockdown.
While passengers are legally entitled to a refund for cancelled flights the CMA concluded that the law does not 
provide a sufficiently clear right to a refund in circumstances where a flight goes ahead but flyers are legally 
prevented from taking it.
Andrea Coscelli, Chief Executive of the CMA, said, "we strongly believe people who are legally prevented from 
taking flights due to lockdown laws should be offered a full refund and we launched this investigation in the hope 
that we would be able to secure a positive outcome for consumers."
In the end, the watchdog concluded that the relevant law would give further legal proceedings an "uncertain 
outcome," meaning that neither the time taken to push the case through the courts nor the cost to the taxpayer 
could be justified.
In a statement Ryanair said it "welcomes the CMA's decision to close its investigation." 
"We operated a limited schedule during UK lockdowns for customers who travelled for essential reasons. 
Passengers had the option to change their bookings without paying the flight change fee and many availed of this 
option," the budget airline continued.
CMA closes investigation into Ryanair and British Airways
The CMA called for the law to be clarified on behalf of Ryanair and British Airways passengers who were "unfairly" 
left out of pocket.
                     Read more:                      Ryanair and Wizz Air passenger numbers highlight aviation's journey back to 
normality
The post CMA closes investigation into Ryanair and British Airways  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 7, 2021
End of Document
TfL criticised for charing over-60s £10 to prove they live in London
TfL criticised for charing over-60s £10 to prove they live in London
Cityam.com
November 1, 2022 Tuesday 11:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: TfL’s decision to charge 60+ Oyster card holders £10 annually to prove they still reside in London has 
caused a stir, as one user branded it a “scam.” Ghanashyam Master told MyLondon he now has to pay £20 to get a 
new card after he failed to pay the £10 fee by 16 October.  “Trying [...]The post TfL criticised for charing over-60s 
£10 to prove they live in London appeared first on CityAM.
Body
TfL’s decision to charge 60+ Oyster card holders £10 annually to prove they still reside in London has caused a stir, 
as one user branded it a “scam.”
Ghanashyam Master told MyLondon he now has to pay £20 to get a new card after he failed to pay the £10 fee by 
16 October. 
“Trying to get £20 or at least £10 each year in the name of verification of address feels like it’s a scam,” Master told 
the outlet. 
“How can a [public] body  do this? They don’t ask for proof of [address] after a passport is issued, so why ask for it 
for the over 60s pass? TFL should rethink and refund the money to all those affected.”
Non profit organisation Age UK echoed the commuter’s remarks, saying: “It’s another way concessionary travel has 
been watered down and comes at a time when the threat to the very existence of the 60+ Oyster card grows from 
week to week.” 
Under TfL’s terms of service, those who have applied for a 60+ Oyster card after August 2019 need to provide proof 
they still live in London and pay the £10 annual fee. 
A TfL source told MyLondon the charge, in place for a few years now, was set to ensure users continue to remain 
eligible for the scheme. 
City A.M. has approached TfL for comment.
TfL criticised for charing over-60s £10 to prove they live in London
Read more
Ryanair tells passengers to brace for disruption over website and app outage on 8 November
The post TfL criticised for charing over-60s £10 to prove they live in London  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 1, 2022
End of Document
Rivian puts EV venture with Mercedes on hold to focus on US operations
Rivian puts EV venture with Mercedes on hold to focus on US operations
Cityam.com
December 12, 2022 Monday 2:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 337 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Rivian has put its plans to create an electric van joint venture with Mercedes on hold to focus on its US 
operations.  The electric van maker announced today it was pressing the pause button on the project to instead 
focus on its existing US business – which include a contract to supply Amazon 100,000 delivery [...]The post Rivian 
puts EV venture with Mercedes on hold to focus on US operations appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Rivian has put its plans to create an electric van joint venture with Mercedes on hold to focus on its US operations. 
The electric van maker announced today it was pressing the pause button on the project to instead focus on its 
existing US business – which include a contract to supply Amazon 100,000 delivery vans.
Chief executive RJ Scaringe said its consumer and commercial businesses represented “the most attractive near-
term opportunities to maximise value for Rivian.”
“We share the same goal as Mercedes-Benz Vans, to help the world transition to electric vehicles, and we look 
forward to exploring opportunities with them at a more appropriate time for Rivian,” Scaringe added.
Initially announced in early September, the partnership would have seen the establishment of a factory in Europe to 
cater to both companies. 
Mathias Geisen, head of Mercedes-Benz Vans, said he respected and understood Rivian’s decision “to prioritise 
the delivery of their consumer business and existing commercial business in the near-term.”
“While the timeline for our common European production joint venture is now on hold, the pace of our own 
electrification strategy at Mercedes-Benz Vans remains unchanged,” he explained. 
The German marque announced today the opening of its newest factory in Jawor, Poland. 
The electric van maker has been plagued by supply chain issues over the past few months, which forced it earlier 
this year to slash production forecasts from 50,000 to 25,000 vans. 
Rivian puts EV venture with Mercedes on hold to focus on US operations
Rivian quickly became a cautionary tale as it floated in November last year at the eye watering price of $105bn  
(£85.5bn), becoming the world’s highest valued company without a revenue. 
Over the past 12 months, the company’s stocks plummeted to $26 – down 78 per cent on last year’s $118.90 per 
share – due to production and inflationary costs.
Read more
Ryanair to compensate travellers for 2018 strikes after Supreme Court appeal dropped
The post Rivian puts EV venture with Mercedes on hold to focus on US operations  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 12, 2022
End of Document
Airline shares end higher following Ryanair 's 'sea change' comments
Airline shares end higher following Ryanair's 'sea change' comments
Cityam.com
January 20, 2022 Thursday 1:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 266 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Shares of European airlines ended higher today as a result of Ryanair's 'sea change' comments. The 
Dublin-based carrier ended 4.2 per cent higher, while British Airways' owner IAG and Easyjet went up 1.60 and 
3.29 per cent respectively. Earlier today, low-cost carrier Ryanair said it had registered a 'sea change' in customer 
confidence over the [...]The post Airline shares end higher following Ryanair's 'sea change' comments appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Shares of European airlines ended higher today as a result of Ryanair's 'sea change' comments. 
The Dublin-based carrier ended 4.2 per cent higher, while British Airways' owner IAG and Easyjet went up 1.60 and 
3.29 per cent respectively.
Earlier today, low-cost carrier Ryanair said it had registered a 'sea change' in customer confidence over the last few 
weeks, as a result of Omicron easing and Covid travel rules relaxing. 
"There is a sea change, based on what we believe will be customer confidence and the timing of the peaking of 
Omicron," Ryanair's chief executive Eddie Wilson told Reuters. 
"I think people's mindset has moved as well in terms of 'I'm traveling', 'I'm going'," he added. "They can see the 
summer. They are not in the darkest days of where we were the previous year."
After experiencing a slump in summer bookings over Omicron concerns, the airline expects that next summer 
available short-haul seats will suffer a 10-15 per cent fall that will increase the average fares. 
"The macro view of this is that there are less seats in Europe, so broadly fares will be higher. They have to be," he 
added. 
The airline was badly hit by the re-introduction of Covid travel measures following the discovery of Omicron, with 
passenger numbers going down 7 per cent between November and December, City A.M. reported. 
Airline shares end higher following Ryanair 's 'sea change' comments
In December, passenger numbers dropped to 9.5 million, down from 10.2 million in November. 
Read more
Bumpy rides: Number of UK daily flights at half of pre-Covid levels
The post Airline shares end higher following Ryanair's 'sea change' comments  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Send in the army to help airports, says Ryanair boss
Send in the army to help airports, says Ryanair boss
Cityam.com
June 2, 2022 Thursday 6:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 662 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The UK Government should send in the army to relieve pressure from airports as the travel mayhem 
rages on, according to Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary. "Bringing in the army, which they do and many other 
European airports, would, at a stroke, relieve the pressure on airport security and would mean that people have a 
much [...]The post Send in the army to help airports, says Ryanair boss appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK Government should send in the army to relieve pressure from airports as the travel mayhem rages on, 
according to Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary.
"Bringing in the army, which they do and many other European airports, would, at a stroke, relieve the pressure on 
airport security and would mean that people have a much better experience - not just this weekend, but for each 
weekend over the next three, four months," O'Leary told the Telegraph.
O'Leary's comments come a day after ministers accused airlines of wasting police resources as agents were forced 
to escort passengers who were left "abandoned" on a TUI aircraft at Manchester airport on Monday.
"It's an appalling waste of police resources from airlines, who should know better," a Home Office source told the 
Times. "Airlines need to get a grip and focus on delivering for their customers.
According to the ministry source, the current situation is an airlines' problem as "they treated staff appallingly 
throughout the pandemic [and] didn't innovate and didn't come up with a solution" but instead they complained to 
the government. 
Transport secretary Grant Shapps said he had a "productive meeting" with industry stakeholders - including British 
Airways (BA), easyJet, TUI as well as Gatwick and Bristol airports - last night.
Shapps called on the industry to do their bit and said: "We have been crystal clear - run services properly and 
according to schedule or provide swift, appropriate compensation.
Send in the army to help airports, says Ryanair boss
"We do not want to see a repeat of this over the summer - the first post-Covid summer season - and will be meeting 
again in the coming weeks to understand the progress that is being made."
The secretary urged travellers to check before they travel.
"Many people are expected to travel over the Jubilee weekend - check before you head off," he tweeted. 
                     Many people are expected to travel over the Jubilee weekend - check before you head off:￿ Check 
@PoD_travelnews  before heading to Dover  Check your airport or airline before flying  Check your trains are 
running @NationalRailEnq  Check your route @NationalHways pic.twitter.com/8e7pvjD1GQ  Rt Hon Grant Shapps 
MP (@grantshapps) June 2, 2022
The government was still not exempt from criticism as it was accused of inaction. 
Shadow transport secretary Louise Haigh, in a letter to Grant Shapps, blamed the government for being "missing in 
action."
"Tory ministers can't even get the basics right," she said. "They should show some responsibility, do their job, and 
take concrete steps to tackle the chaos growing on their watch."
More than 150 flights were cancelled yesterday, as BA and easyJet axed 124 and 31 flights from Heathrow and 
Gatwick respectively, City A.M. reported. TUI announced on Tuesday it would cut six services per day until the end 
of June to ease pressures.
The German company was recently lambasted after it was disclosed that senior executives were on "workations" to 
improve their work-life balance, the Telegraph reported.
According to aviation analytics firm Cirium, easyJet was the most disrupted airline with 249 cancellations over the 
past week, 66 per cent of all UK cancelled flights.
To minimise disruption at airports, passengers were told to carry only one cabin bag.
"If people can check in online and do not take [large] bags, that limits the disruption" said GMB union's national 
secretary Andy Pendergast.
"It's not a magic bullet but it does reduce the chance of there being problems."
Pendergast's words were echoed by Paul Charles, chief executive at travel consultancy PC Agency, who 
suggested that "passengers should consider packing lightly and travelling with a small bag they can take on board 
the aircraft."
Boarding with just one cabin bag would reduce the risk of luggage getting lost and limit delays.
Read more
Airlines axe hundreds of flights while 'blame game' between government and industry continues
The post Send in the army to help airports, says Ryanair boss  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 2, 2022
End of Document
Raising fares better than cutting services, says TfL exec as Mayor’s decision on price hike looms
Raising fares better than cutting services, says TfL exec as Mayor’s decision 
on price hike looms
Cityam.com
January 17, 2023 Tuesday 5:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 382 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Increasing bus and tube fares is always better than cutting services, Transport for London’s chief 
technology officer Shashi Verma said today. Verma told members of London Assembly’s transport committee that 
“a service cut is much worse than a fare increase” as cuts usually lead to a bigger decrease in passenger demand. 
“A 1 per cent [...]The post Raising fares better than cutting services, says TfL exec as Mayor’s decision on price 
hike looms appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Increasing bus and tube fares is always better than cutting services, Transport for London’s chief technology officer 
Shashi Verma said today. 
Verma told members of London Assembly’s transport committee that “a service cut is much worse than a fare 
increase” as cuts usually lead to a bigger decrease in passenger demand.
“A 1 per cent increase in fares leads to a 0.3 per cent reduction in demand,” the executive said. “[Whereas] a 1 per 
cent service cut leads to something between 0.6 and 0.8 per cent reduction in demand.”
Verma’s words come as London mayor Sadiq Khan is set to make a decision on whether to hike fares across the 
network “very soon”. 
Khan  will need to decide if he will raise tube and bus fares by 5.9 per cent – in line with what the government 
announced for rail in mid-December. 
The mayor told ITV  last week that he wanted to limit the rise to 4 per cent but he was tied to the government’s long-
term funding deal for TfL.
Read more
Plane not train: Cornwall set for further tourist spike as Ryanair launches London-Newquay route
Raising fares better than cutting services, says TfL exec as Mayor’s decision on price hike looms
Announced in late August following a drawn out dispute between City Hall and government ministers, the deal  will 
keep TfL running until the spring of 2024.
As part of the agreement, the public network will receive an additional £1.2bn base funding on top of £3.6bn of 
capital funding.
But in return, the government has demanded TfL increase its revenues from £500m to £1bn per year, which 
included hiking fares.
Deputy mayor for transport Seb Dance said Khan might be forced to hike fares in line with government guidance as 
any shortfall would have to be made up by TfL. 
“The agreement is very clear that any shortfall between the government’s announced figure and the figure the 
mayor decides on has to be made up by TfL,” Dance told committee members.
If TfL failed to make up for the shortfall, the government might withdraw its support, Dance added.
“So if we receive less support from the government, then obviously we need to find the money elsewhere,” he said. 
“And that would make a difficult situation more difficult.”
Read more
More strikes: RMT follows in Aslef’s footsteps with rail walkouts in February
The post Raising fares better than cutting services, says TfL exec as Mayor’s decision on price hike looms  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 17, 2023
End of Document
Meta: Why is Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram owner facing a record fine from the EU?
Meta: Why is Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram owner facing a record fine 
from the EU?
Cityam.com
May 22, 2023 Monday 6:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 311 words
Byline: Laura McGuire
Highlight: Meta will face a record fine over its transfer of European users’ Facebook data to its US server. The fine, 
according to reports in Sky News, is expected to be handed to the social media giant this morning by Ireland’s Data 
Protection Commission (DPC), as it orders Meta to stop using “complex legal instruments” to [...]The post Meta: 
Why is Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram owner facing a record fine from the EU? appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Meta will face a record fine over its transfer of European users’ Facebook data to its US server.
The fine, according to reports in Sky News,  is expected to be handed to the social media giant this morning by 
Ireland’s Data Protection Commission (DPC), as it orders Meta to stop using “complex legal instruments” to move 
EU data to the US.
The financial slap is set to be larger than Amazon’s €746m (£647m) which it was hit with in 2021 after it failed to 
comply with EU privacy standards.
It comes as concerns have been raised about data transfer flows between the US and EU as it is believed that it 
could “leave Europeans exposed to the US’s weaker privacy laws”.
The business which was founded by billionaire Mark Zukerberg has previously threatened to suspend its services in 
the EU if it could not continue using its tools to transfer the data. 
In April, Meta acknowledged that it would face a decision from the DPC. during its first quarter results. 
The company said: “Our ongoing consultations with policymakers on both sides of the Atlantic continue to indicate 
that the proposed new EU-US Data Privacy Framework will be fully implemented before the deadline for 
suspension of such transfers, but we cannot exclude the possibility that it will not be completed in time. “
“We will also evaluate whether and to what extent the IDPC decision could otherwise impact our data processing 
operations even after a new data privacy framework is in force.”
Meta: Why is Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram owner facing a record fine from the EU?
This is not the first time the Irish watchdog has fined Meta, in January the group handed another of its subsidiaries, 
Whatsapp a €5.5m (£4.8m) fine for an additional breach of its privacy laws.
Read more
Ryanair aims to ‘wipe the floor’ with European airlines in push to double passenger numbers
The post Meta: Why is Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram owner facing a record fine from the EU?  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 22, 2023
End of Document
Krakow’s on the rise, and that’s well-deserved
Krakow’s on the rise, and that’s well-deserved
Cityam.com
June 22, 2022 Wednesday 1:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 625 words
Byline: Adam Bloodworth
Highlight: THE WEEKEND: Krakow has been one of Europe’s best-kept secrets for decades, its mixture of old 
world charm and art-flecked cool drawing those in the know for getaways to see ancient architecture, drink copious 
cocktails, or indeed both. The secret, it seems, is out – the city’s biggest airline, Ryanair has announced that it’s 
opening [...]The post Krakow’s on the rise, and that’s well-deserved appeared first on CityAM.
Body
                     THE WEEKEND: Krakow has been one of Europe’s best-kept secrets for decades, its mixture of old 
world charm and art-flecked cool drawing those in the know for getaways to see ancient architecture, drink copious 
cocktails, or indeed both. The secret, it seems, is out – the city’s biggest airline, Ryanair has announced that it’s 
opening 10 new routes to the city, expecting to serve 4.5 million passengers this year alone. So it’s never been 
easier to visit this amazing city. 
                     WHERE? The city’s medieval Old Town was one of the world’s first UNESCO World Heritage sites. 
This strip of ancient architecture has been transformed over the years into a gorgeous, twisting gauntlet of bars, 
restaurants, museums and hotels. It’s surrounded by the wonderful Planty Park, a ring of pleasant, unerringly quiet 
greenery buffering the ancient town from Krakow’s more modern extrusions. Set just outside Krakow’s Jewish 
quarter, and home to its younger, artier, more experimental population, not to mention its younger, artier, more 
experimental eateries and bars. As a one-two punch, the Old Town and Kazimierz offer a perfect long weekend – 
culture and adventure alike, within a 15 minute walk. 
                     THE STAY: Bullseyed in the very centre of the Old Town is the Bonerowski Palace Hotel, a five-star 
ode to Kraków’s history as the seat of Polish royalty. The first thing you’ll notice as you enter is a four-storey 
chandelier, which ascends the stairs with you. Follow it to the top and you’ll find a penthouse suite built out of more 
window than wall, overlooking the square below and covered in enough thick drapes to make a regency heiress 
faint in delight. Decor is pitched somewhere inbetween a tribute to the 13th Century palace it’s built in, and the wild 
tastes of a cartoon oligarch, complete with a bath sitting in the middle of the room, a reading nook up its own flight 
of stairs, and a shower the size of a small family car. Downstairs, you’ll find a smart, compact cocktail bar and the 
Amalia restaurant, which offers a la carte breakfasts, and classy takes on Polish standards. Grab a booth by the 
Krakow’s on the rise, and that’s well-deserved
windows and you can spend a relaxing evening watching the square bustle by, complete with classical horse and 
carriage rides departing from just outside. 
                     THE FOOD: Kraków is blessed with a vibrant restaurant culture, from incredible hole-in-the-wall 
pierogi sellers turning out dumplings the weight of a cricket ball, to artful sushi that simply shouldn’t be this good for 
a town hundreds of miles from the sea. For a true taste of the Old Town, however, Wesele Restaurant offers refined 
Polish fare, with specials tied to national holidays. Griddle pans heave with perfectly cooked black pudding and 
bacon, traditional roast duck comes with swipes of delicate apple mousse and edible flowers, and the meal is 
finished with a choice of Polish flavoured vodka, displayed proudly in the centre of the room. 
                     ASK ABOUT: Kraków is well-armed with museums and galleries, but for something more unusual, the 
aptly-named Beernarium hides underneath an unassuming Old Town side street, offering luxurious baths in either 
beer or wine, accompanied by a sauna and a traditional hay bed to lay on. Truly odd, but oddly wonderful. Also, if 
you’re extremely hungry, make sure to visit Plac Nowy in Kazimierz, a square dominated by food stalls vying to 
make the best Zapiekanki. They’re gigantic open sandwiches often referred to as “Polish Pizza.”
                     Do it yourself                   
Bonerowski Palace Hotel  suites start at around £270 a night                   
The post Krakow’s on the rise, and that’s well-deserved  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 22, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ends negotiations with Boeing over new 737 Max 10 order
Ryanair ends negotiations with Boeing over new 737 Max 10 order
Cityam.com
September 6, 2021 Monday 10:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 298 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Ryanair has today walked away from negotiations with Boeing over an order for its new 737 Max 10 
after failingThe post Ryanair ends negotiations with Boeing over new 737 Max 10 order appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has today walked away from negotiations with Boeing over an order for its new 737 Max 10 after failing to 
agree on a price for the jets.
Discussions over a deal have been ongoing for 10 months, but the two sides could not close the gap on price, the 
budget carrier said.
As a result, they have agreed not to waste anymore time on negotiations, Ryanair said.
Michael O'Leary, the airline's chief executive, said he was "disappointed", but that the carrier had a "disciplined 
track record of not paying high prices for aircraft".
In a jab at the aerospace giant, he added: "We do not share Boeing's optimistic pricing outlook, although this may 
explain why in recent weeks other large Boeing customers such as Delta and Jet2, have been placing new orders 
with Airbus, rather than Boeing."
His words come days after Jet2 said it would buy 36 new jets from Airbus, rather than its usual supplier Boeing.
Last week in a press conference O'Leary had talked up the prospect of an agreement between the two sides.
"I would be hopeful that agreement might be reached in 2022. I mean the rate and pace of negotiation depends on 
Boeing," he said.
"At the moment I think the balance lies in favour of us because Boeing have recorded remarkably few orders for the 
aircraft, and they need a couple of large Max 10 orders."
In an ideal world, he said, he would order 250 of the planes over a five-year period.
Ryanair ends negotiations with Boeing over new 737 Max 10 order
The 737 Max 10 order was intended as a follow-up to Ryanair's order of 200 737 Max jets, which was struck last 
year.
The carrier will take delivery of the first of these next summer. With the new planes, Ryanair's fleet will grow to 600 
planes in total, capable of carrying 200m passengers a year.
The post Ryanair ends negotiations with Boeing over new 737 Max 10 order  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 6, 2021
End of Document
CMA to investigate British Airways and Ryanair over lockdown flight refunds
CMA to investigate British Airways and Ryanair over lockdown flight refunds
Cityam.com
June 9, 2021 Wednesday 8:09 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 420 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: The UK's markets watchdog has begun an investigation into British Airways and Ryanair today, to find 
whether they broke theThe post CMA to investigate British Airways and Ryanair over lockdown flight refunds 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK's markets watchdog has begun an investigation into British Airways and Ryanair today, to find whether they 
broke the law in not offering refunds for flights struck by lockdown laws.
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) will be looking at a potential breach in consumers' legal rights when 
they were left out of pocket for flights they legally could not take.
The probe will eye where the airlines continued to operate flights - despite people being unable to travel for non-
essential purposes in the UK or internationally.
BA and its London City based subsidiary CityFlyer will be investigated.
"While we understand that airlines have had a tough time during the pandemic, people should not be left unfairly 
out of pocket for following the law," CMA chief executive Andrea Coscelli said.
"Customers booked these flights in good faith and were legally unable to take them due to circumstances entirely 
outside of their control. We believe these people should have been offered their money back."
According to the CMA, Ryanair told the watchdog that they repaid a small number of people after reviewing the 
specifics of their cases.
The CMA also urged that it should not be assumed at this stage that the airlines have broken the law - as only a 
court can decide.
Investors in either airline seemingly shrugged off the threat of a probe, with shares in Ryanair up 2.4 per cent and 
British Airways owner IAG up 3.2 per cent this morning.
CMA to investigate British Airways and Ryanair over lockdown flight refunds
                     Industry 'on its knees'                   
A spokesperson for British Airways said: "During this unprecedented crisis we have issued well over 3m refunds 
and helped millions of our customers change their travel dates or destinations and we're grateful to them for their 
ongoing support. 
"It is incredible that the government is seeking to punish further an industry that is on its knees, after prohibiting 
airlines from meaningful flying for well over a year now. Any action taken against our industry will only serve to 
destabilise it, with potential consequences for jobs, business, connectivity and the UK economy."
Ryanair said that it welcomed CMA's review: "Ryanair has approached such refund requests on a case by case 
basis and has paid refunds in justified cases. 
"Since June 2020, all our customers have also had the ability to rebook their flights without paying a change fee 
and millions of our UK customers have availed of this option."
The post CMA to investigate British Airways and Ryanair over lockdown flight refunds  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 9, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair accused of 'grabbing wages' as pilots face 'huge' pay cuts
Ryanair accused of 'grabbing wages' as pilots face 'huge' pay cuts
Cityam.com
September 3, 2021 Friday 11:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 362 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Pilots' union BALPA has today accused Ryanair of forcing its members to take "huge" pay cuts over the 
winter periodThe post Ryanair accused of 'grabbing wages' as pilots face 'huge' pay cuts appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Pilots' union BALPA has today accused Ryanair of forcing its members to take "huge" pay cuts over the winter 
period despite recent claims about the speed of airline's recovery.
According to the union, pilots at East Midlands International airport have been asked to take a 70 per cent pay cut 
over the coming months.
Along with the rest of the carrier's stable of pilots, they have already accepted a 20 per cent pay cut due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
As a result, some staff at the airport will be working for less than £1,000 a month, the union said.
The proposed cut comes despite Ryanair's predictions that it will fly 10.5m passengers for each of the next three 
months, higher than it had previously predicted.
Earlier this week chief executive Michael O'Leary said that the carrier was recovering at a faster rate than any other 
European airline.
Yesterday it said it had carried 11.1m passengers in August, double the number it flew in June, after travel 
restrictions were eased.
Commenting on the cuts, acting BALPA general secretary Martin Chalk accused the carrier of "grabbing wages 
from its staff".
"Many pilots have had to get second jobs or use life savings to survive. This feels like it has gone unnoticed by 
Ryanair management who appear to have zero concern for the wellbeing of their pilots. The prolonged stress 
caused by this inaction by Ryanair could have long term effects", he said.
Ryanair accused of 'grabbing wages' as pilots face 'huge' pay cuts
"Ryanair's loyal pilots have sacrificed their pay to support the company throughout this crisis. Now it is time for 
Ryanair to recognise the sacrifice, support its pilots and stop treating them as just an item in the expenses column."
                     City A.M. has contacted Ryanair for comment.
Earlier this week the Mail on Sunday said that a memo would be sent to Ryanair pilots this week asking for 
volunteers to go part-time. 
Last year Ryanair pilots agreed a 20 per cent pay cut to avoid 3,000 job losses, part of a string of cost-cutting from 
the airline to protect its finances amid the downturn in travel.
BA is reportedly also looking to cut pay for its staff.
The post Ryanair accused of 'grabbing wages' as pilots face 'huge' pay cuts  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 3, 2021
End of Document
Why Lufthansa’s stake in Alitalia successor ITA could signal a wave of European consolidation
Why Lufthansa’s stake in Alitalia successor ITA could signal a wave of 
European consolidation
Cityam.com
June 2, 2023 Friday 6:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 744 words
Byline: Andy Silvester
Highlight: Lufthansa’s purchase of a minority stake in Italy’s loss-making ITA Airways injects fresh momentum into 
a wave of consolidation in Europe’s fragmented aviation market that could see more mid-tier national carriers 
snapped up. The German group will be judged on whether it can make the successor business to Alitalia profitable 
in coming years, potentially setting the scene [...]The post Why Lufthansa’s stake in Alitalia successor ITA could 
signal a wave of European consolidation appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Lufthansa’s purchase  of a minority stake in Italy’s loss-making ITA Airways injects fresh momentum into a wave of 
consolidation in Europe’s fragmented aviation market that could see more mid-tier national carriers snapped up.
The German group will be judged on whether it can make the successor business to Alitalia profitable in coming 
years, potentially setting the scene for large airline groups to swoop on more national carriers that have fallen prey 
to competition.
“It’s further evidence that consolidation in the European airline industry is continuing and in my view necessary,” 
Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr said of the deal last week.
“Success depends on scale and the ability to combine the strength of our operations under one roof.”
Portugal’s TAP , bailed out by the government during the pandemic, and Scandinavia’s SAS , trying to emerge from 
bankruptcy proceedings, have both struggled to compete with low-cost rivals such as Ryanair and Wizz Air.
Lufthansa, Air France-KLM, and British Airways owner IAG have all laid the groundwork  for potential bids for TAP 
as the Portuguese government looks to sell it off.
“You’ve got a lot of other carriers who are only there because of the perceived need to have a national flag carrier – 
and they probably find life quite difficult,” said aviation analyst James Halstead, managing partner at Aviation 
Strategy.
Why Lufthansa’s stake in Alitalia successor ITA could signal a wave of European consolidation
Analysts argue that, in the years to come, the market will continue to separate into two segments – the three large 
airline groups made up of Lufthansa, Air France-KLM and IAG, which buy up smaller national carriers, and low-cost 
giants like Ryanair.
“The Lufthansa-ITA deal is an operation that follows the logic of the last 25 years in the aviation world in Europe, 
which involves increasing integration of these regional-national carriers,” said Andrea Giuricin of TRA Consulting.
TRA Consulting data show that in 2018 the top five carriers in Europe, including Lufthansa and Ryanair, controlled 
around 50% of the market, while in the United States – where operators consolidated earlier – the main airlines had 
an 86% share.
Analysts warn that those not absorbed by the three larger groups are more than ever at a risk of simply fading 
away.
“They wont be able to grow as others will and therefore lose share and lose attraction and trundle on until they die,” 
Halstead said.
Lufthansa’s deal – and others such as Korean Air Lines’ takeover of Asiana Airlines – are set to be hot topics at 
global aviation group IATA’s annual meeting in Istanbul next week.
Read more
Irish eyes are smiling as Ryanair nears passenger milestone
                     NO EASY FEAT                   
But turning round an ailing airline is no easy feat, especially as low-cost carriers c ontinue their rapid expansion in 
markets such as Italy and eastern Europe.
As the cost of carbon increases and flying becomes more expensive, analysts say low-cost carriers will become 
more attractive to consumers, making it harder for the big groups to save struggling mid-level airlines.
Pressure on European carriers in particular to use sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), which is up to five times more 
expensive than regular fuel, is likely to make cost-conscious consumers turn to budget carriers more often, analysts 
said.
In the case of ITA, Lufthansa’s greatest challenge will be to compete with Ryanair’s almost 40% of market share in 
Italy, Europe’s third largest market, and to offer enough of a competitive edge on mid- and long-haul flight options.
Pressure is building in eastern Europe too, as Ryanair eyes growing economies and market share in the region in a 
battle with Hungary’s Wizz Air.
“In Poland, we’re well ahead of (local airline) LOT and we expect to stay there for some time, we continue to grow in 
the Czech Republic, continue to grow in lots of other eastern European countries, and we see more opportunities in 
that neck of the woods,” said Ryanair’s Chief Financial Officer Neil Sorahan in May.
Still, the Italian government sees the deal with Lufthansa as the only way forward for ITA after years of losses and 
failed efforts to revamp Alitalia.
“The prospect of remaining alone in a market like aviation is a pure illusion. A national interest will certainly be 
protected,” Italian economy minister Giancarlo Giorgetti said last week.
                       Reuters                   
The post Why Lufthansa’s stake in Alitalia successor ITA could signal a wave of European consolidation  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Why Lufthansa’s stake in Alitalia successor ITA could signal a wave of European consolidation
Load-Date: June 2, 2023
End of Document
UK Government eases airport slot rules to avoid last-minute cancellations
UK Government eases airport slot rules to avoid last-minute cancellations
Cityam.com
June 21, 2022 Tuesday 4:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 355 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The UK Government has announced it will ease airport slot rules to avoid last-minute cancellations as 
travel chaos continues to rampage through the industry. The decision comes as Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary 
warned passengers disruption will stay throughout the summer. Under the new plan, airlines will have an “amnesty” 
period to give back the summer [...]The post UK Government eases airport slot rules to avoid last-minute 
cancellations appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK Government has announced it will ease airport slot rules to avoid last-minute cancellations as travel chaos 
continues to rampage through the industry.
The decision comes as Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary warned passengers disruption will stay throughout the 
summer.
Under the new plan, airlines will have an “amnesty” period to give back the summer slots for they are not confident 
they will be able to operate.
The move aims to avoid last-minute cancellations amid ongoing labour shortages, helping passengers find 
alternative travel solutions with time to spare.
“Today’s announcement aims to help airlines provide certainty to passengers and ensure the next few months are 
as smooth as possible,” said transport secretary Grant Shapps while aviation minister Robert Courts added that the 
plan was the result of ongoing discussions with industry leaders on how to best help the sector ease disruption.
The news was welcomed by the industry, with trade body Airlines UK calling it a “welcome step.”
“This is a welcome step that will help build greater resilience into operations this summer, coming on top of 
measures already taken by the sector,” said chief executive Tim Alderslade.
Commenting on the news, a Virgin Atlantic spokesperson said the airline was expecting to “run a full summer 
schedule as originally planned.”
UK Government eases airport slot rules to avoid last-minute cancellations
Before the pandemic, airlines’ slots at airports were regulated under the “use it or lose it” rule, which meant that 
carriers had to used their spot 80 per cent of the time to retain it the next year. 
As Covid brought air travel to a halt, the rules were scrapped by UK regulators but, following the reopening of 
borders, the government reintroduced the policy.
Until March the rule was 50/50 but it was increased to 70/30 ahead of the summer season.
Recently the Institute of Economic Affairs argued that ending the allocation of slots would lead to lower fares and 
higher competition between airlines, City A.M. reported.
Read more
Travel mayhem to continue throughout the summer, says Ryanair’s boss
The post UK Government eases airport slot rules to avoid last-minute cancellations  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 21, 2022
End of Document
Investors prepare to see if British Airways owner will soar this summer
Investors prepare to see if British Airways owner will soar this summer
Cityam.com
July 26, 2023 Wednesday 4:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 591 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: British Airways owner IAG is set to report its half year results this Friday, amid what is widely touted as 
the most important summer for airlines in years. Aviation has experienced an extraordinary boom in demand over 
the last six months as it enters the first truly restriction free, high volume period since before the [...]
Body
British Airways owner IAG is set to report its half year results this Friday, amid what is widely touted as the most 
important summer for airlines in years.
Aviation has experienced an extraordinary boom in demand over the last six months as it enters the first truly 
restriction free, high volume period since before the pandemic.
While holidaymakers have not yet been put of travelling by the cost of living crisis, recent updates from budget 
airlines Ryanair and Easyjet have, despite being largely positive, tempered expectations slightly.
Ryanair in particular struck a more cautious tone in its quarterly results on Monday and lowered its passenger 
forecasts for the rest of the year to 183.5 million, down from 185 million , despite profits flying past pre-pandemic 
levels to £572m.
Alongside Boeing delivery delays, Chief Michael O’Leary honed in on European flight disruption and airspace 
restrictions, namely as a result of French air traffic control strikes, which have plagued both Easyjet and the Irish 
carrier. 
Earlier in July, Easyjet axed 1,700 summer flightsas a result of airspace limits over Ukraine and the ATC walk-outs 
and in a subsequent trading update, warned of a performance hit from “unprecedented” levels of disruption despite 
reporting record pre-tax profits of £203m.
Whilst these issues won’t prevent this summer from being one of the busiest on record, they have certainly 
dampened excessive talk of bumper profits and a trouble-free end to the pandemic-induced lull.
Investors prepare to see if British Airways owner will soar this summer
Unrelenting pressure on consumers and households has tempered forecasts further, particularly for the coming 
winter.
Conroy Gaynor, aviation analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence, said “there is a growing concern that the yield 
environment for European airlines is losing buoyancy, this is partly technical due to tougher comparisons on growth 
being met from last year, but also because pent-up travel demand and household finances may be dwindling.”
Gaynor noted the “tight” airspace and “unfortunate” ATC strikes, but flagged self-inflicted problems such as “staff 
shortages and IT failures” as a potential risk over the summer peak.
Long-haul specialist IAG faces other concerns as well, with legacy carriers relying heavily on strong transatlantic 
demand and the re-opening of Asia, but Gaynor noted “visibility is limited for the winter.”
Sophie Lund-Yates, lead equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown said that IAG will be firmly “in the spotlight” of 
investors this week.
“The group is a long-haul specialist, which is a potentially trickier demographic than cheap and cheerful shorter 
trips. That said, we can see that broader trends for the sector have positive read-across for IAG – especially looking 
at the record profits Easyjet recently reported.”
“IAG should be in a position to continue” positive demand trends, she argued, but “commentary on forward 
bookings will be significant, especially considering the transatlantic market share pressures British Airways is 
facing. 
Lund-Yates noted that despite concerns, consumers were still “prioritising holidays,” although she said that the cost 
of living “remains highly elevated,” and airlines could be affected as consumers continue “to deplete their accrued 
savings.”
That being said, IAG is yet to show any major signs of a poorer than expected performance. In May, the group 
enjoyed its first first-quarter profit since prior to Covid-19, upping its guidance for the year for operating profit from 
€1.8bn to €2.3bn.
Read more
Easyjet cancels 1,700 summer flights amid French air traffic controller strikes
Load-Date: July 26, 2023
End of Document
No public support for France 's short-haul ban says Ryanair 's boss
No public support for France's short-haul ban says Ryanair's boss
Cityam.com
October 24, 2021 Sunday 5:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 313 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary said French President Emmanuel Macron is lying when he says there is 
public support for theThe post No public support for France's short-haul ban says Ryanair's boss appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary said French President Emmanuel Macron is lying when he says there is public 
support for the French Government's ban on short-haul flights, the Telegraph reported.
"Be very careful with the French," the paper reported him saying. "You can always tell when the French are lying 
because their lips are moving."
O'Leary fiery comments come in response to France announcing earlier this year a ban on short-haul flights. To cut 
down on CO2 emissions, the French Government will replace them with train journeys if they could be done in 
under two and a half hours. 
According to O'Leary, the Elysee's decision will have an impact on short-haul carriers while leave long-haul ones - 
including French national carrier Air France - intact. 
"France is banning all domestic flights that are under 500 km - unless it is travelling on to a connecting flight through 
Paris Charles de Gaulle. So basically Air France will keep on flying, but everyone else will be banned," he added.
France is not the first European country to implement a ban on short-haul flights. Austria set the same rule in 
November 2020, replacing all flights between Vienna and Graz with a three-hour journey. 
According to an April Twitter poll made by British financial journalist, 79.1 per cent of UK people would be in favour 
of adopting the French strategy and ban short-haul flights if a trip by train could help the country reduce its CO2 
emissions.
No public support for France 's short-haul ban says Ryanair 's boss
                     Today's Twitter Poll: Would you support a ban on all UK domestic flights, where a train can do the trip 
in under 2.5 hours?France has passed the first stage of a law to do that, aiming to reduce carbon emissions 
(connecting flights are still allowed). Should same happen here? Martin Lewis (@MartinSLewis) April 13, 2021
The post No public support for France's short-haul ban says Ryanair's boss  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 24, 2021
End of Document
Uber drivers add to travel chaos after union calls for strike
Uber drivers add to travel chaos after union calls for strike
Cityam.com
June 22, 2022 Wednesday 6:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 283 words
Byline: Charlie Conchie
Highlight: Uber drivers have joined the wave of industrial action bringing the country to a standstill today after the 
App Drivers & Couriers Union (ADCU) called for a 24-hour national strike until midnight tonight.The post Uber 
drivers add to travel chaos after union calls for strike appeared first on CityAM.
Body
                     Uber drivers have today joined the wave of industrial action bringing the country to a standstill after the 
App Drivers & Couriers Union (ADCU) called for a 24-hour national strike until midnight tonight.
The union for private hire drivers and couriers said today that Uber must obey a Supreme Court ruling and pay all 
working time to drivers including standby time, as well as hike pay from £1.06 per mile to £2.50 per mile, or risk 
strike action.
Abdurzak Hadi, ADCU London Chair said that Uber drivers have “never been worse off than they are right now”. 
“Drivers have been exposed to hyperinflation while Uber refuses to either obey the Supreme Court ruling which 
protects workers or raise fares and pay to offset inflation of their operating costs,” he said.
“This is beyond greed, Uber has placed its workforce in very dangerous circumstances and the result is driver over 
work, declining mental health and families in great distress.”
He called on the government to “urgently intervene to enforce the law against what is an increasingly out of control 
company”.
The union has called on Uber to comply with the Supreme Court ruling and pay drivers at least the minimum wage 
and holiday pay for all working time from log on to log off, as well as hike fares to £2.50 per mile and £0.20 per 
minute. 
The strikes threaten to add to the travel chaos caused around the UK by widespread rail strikes this week, after rail 
unions staged a walkout yesterday. Further strikes are expected by rail workers tomorrow.
Uber drivers add to travel chaos after union calls for strike
Read more
Travel mayhem to continue throughout the summer, says Ryanair’s boss
The post Uber drivers add to travel chaos after union calls for strike  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 22, 2022
End of Document
Holidaymakers urged to reclaim ATOL refund notes or lose out on £54m
Holidaymakers urged to reclaim ATOL refund notes or lose out on £54m
Cityam.com
July 26, 2022 Tuesday 10:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 309 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight: The recent travel chaos at UK airports will cost consumers £54m in unclaimed ATOL refund credit, the 
Civil Aviation Authority has warned. With hundreds of flights cancelled and thousands of holidays disrupting, many 
passengers have missed out on the chance to claim compensation, the Civil Aviation Authority has warned. ATOL 
is a legal requirement for [...]The post Holidaymakers urged to reclaim ATOL refund notes or lose out on £54m 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The recent travel chaos at UK airports will cost consumers £54m in unclaimed ATOL refund credit, the Civil Aviation 
Authority has warned.
With hundreds of flights cancelled and thousands of holidays disrupting, many passengers have missed out on the 
chance to claim compensation, the Civil Aviation Authority has warned.
ATOL is a legal requirement for package holiday bookings, including where consumers don’t include tickets 
instantaneously.
Read more
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
The CAA warned that when a travel company goes under, from 30 September, any holidaymakers with outstanding 
credit won’t be covered by ATOL (Air Travel Organiser’s Licence), and could lose cash.
It urged consumers to either request a refund from their travel company, or make a booking using a refund credit 
note.
“Demand for travel is continuing to grow and we want to make sure travellers are making the most of the financial 
protection available to them”, said Michael Budge, Head of ATOL at the UK Civil Aviation Authority.
Holidaymakers urged to reclaim ATOL refund notes or lose out on £54m
“With more than £50 million of refund credit notes remaining unspent, this affects consumers booked with some of 
our biggest travel companies.
“If you have one of these refund credit notes, we advise making an ATOL protected booking or requesting a refund 
before 30 September 2022 to avoid putting your money at risk.”
According to the CAA, in July 2020 the ATOL scheme said consumers who accepted refund credit notes would be 
financially protected for any holidays booked between 10 March 2020 and 19 December 2021.
As of November 2021, more than £130m of refund credit notes remained unspent, which reduced to £85m in April 
2022.
Read more
Travel disruption gives easyJet £130m loss but flights filling up for next quarter
The post Holidaymakers urged to reclaim ATOL refund notes or lose out on £54m  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2022
End of Document
Italian strike leads to more chaos in UK
Italian strike leads to more chaos in UK
Cityam.com
June 8, 2022 Wednesday 3:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 294 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: A strike called by Italian air traffic controllers has led to more chaos in the UK. Thousands of passengers 
were left stranded at British hubs after Ryanair, Easyjet, British Airways (BA) and Jet2 cancelled dozens of flights 
from the UK to Italy. Easyjet axed 20 flights from Gatwick telling passengers it was doing “all possible [...]The post 
Italian strike leads to more chaos in UK appeared first on CityAM.
Body
A strike called by Italian air traffic controllers has led to more chaos in the UK. 
Thousands of passengers were left stranded at British hubs after Ryanair, Easyjet, British Airways (BA) and Jet2 
cancelled dozens of flights from the UK to Italy. 
Easyjet axed 20 flights from Gatwick telling passengers it was doing “all possible to minimise any disruption that 
may occur as a result of the strike action,” while BA was forced to cancel around 14 flights between London and 
Milan. 
“Due to air traffic control (ATC) strikes at Milan Bergamo, Milan Malpensa, Turin, Verona, Genoa, Cuneo and 
Parma airports, we have regrettably been forced to cancel a number of flights on Wednesday,” added a 
spokesperson for Ryanair. 
“These ATC strikes are completely beyond our control and we sincerely apologise for any inconvenience they will 
inevitably cause.”
Italy was not the only destination that saw hundreds of UK flights cancelled as BA overall scrapped 122 short-haul 
routes, including several domestic flights, while Easyjet’s total count amounted to 60. 
Stranded passengers took it to Twitter to complain about the disruption. 
“Oh Easyjet, what a shambles,” said one user while another demanded to have the email of BA’s boss Sean Doyle 
because they had not receive a satisfactory response to their complaint.
Italian strike leads to more chaos in UK
@British_Airways  LAST RESORT – Can I have the email for Sean Doyle as I have a complaint that needs dealing 
with, staff have not been able to.— Mr Cad Photographic (@MrCadUK) June 8, 2022                                           Oh 
@easyJet , what a shambles.— Lois Vallely (@LoisVallely) June 8, 2022
Read more
BREAKING: Travel mayhem to hit Londoners as another union joins tube strike
The post Italian strike leads to more chaos in UK  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 8, 2022
End of Document
Could private equity be low-cost air travel’s unlikely saviour?
Could private equity be low-cost air travel’s unlikely saviour?
Cityam.com
June 15, 2023 Thursday 2:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 593 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Air fares for passengers in Europe have spiked 23 per cent over the last year, propelled by lack of 
competitiveness in the industry and issues regarding the supply of new aircraft from major manufacturers Boeing 
and Airbus. In what were well-publicised comments at the time, budget airline Ryanair’s CEO Michael O’Leary 
proclaimed in August that [...]
Body
Air fares for passengers in Europe have spiked 23 per cent over the last year, propelled by lack of competitiveness 
in the industry and issues regarding the supply of new aircraft from major manufacturers Boeing and Airbus.
In what were well-publicised comments at the time, budget airline Ryanair’s CEO Michael O’Leary proclaimed in 
August that the era of cheap flights was over, following the pandemic.
Earlier this month, the International Air Transport Association (IATA), said that air fares were likely to continue 
climbing over the next decade, as the sector preps for a record period of demand over the summer.
Ticket fares have largely been impacted by the continued drive to net zero, which has seen the adoption of high 
cost jet-fuel alternatives such as Sustainable Aviation Fuels (SAF)  as well as aircraft supply chain issues, which 
have pummelled Boeing and Airbus.
However, newly-launched investment firm AIP Capital – the aviation asset arm of Miami-based 777 partners – says 
that private equity has a significant role to play in reducing fares, by alleviating supply chain issues and propping up 
airlines and manufacturers in the lower rung of the market.
Adam Weiss, 777 Partners’ vice president, toldCity A.M. that investing in startup carriers and smaller airlines, who 
are not credit worthy and “don’t have the capital to place large orders” from manufacturers like Boeing, would boost 
competition and “democratise” the sector.
“We look for a really greenfield market,” Weiss said, with the company aiming to support “challenger low cost 
airlines that make airfares more accessible,” and reducing the monopolies held by larger, more established airlines.
Could private equity be low-cost air travel’s unlikely saviour?
Flair – an ultra low-cost carrier based in Canada who work with AIP – scaled up its operations from one aircraft to 
19 in 18 months, according to Weiss.
Private equity investment can also be used to alleviate supply chain issues, caused by high interest rates and 
labour shortages, that have hit Boeing and Airbus deliveries and helped keep ticket prices high.
Through this investment, pressures on supply chains are being alleviated, AIP say, with the “hope of accelerating 
the delivery of aircraft for low-cost carriers. “
Weiss said “we raised a fund to invest in suppliers, small and medium aerospace suppliers that have difficulty in the 
current environment, particularly regarding supply chain.”
“These suppliers are at the lower rung of the supply chain and we’ve designated capital to invest in them to help 
support their rebound to help alleviate the high labour costs and interest rates that have affected them,” he added.
Jared Ailstock, managing partner of AIP, agreed that investment decisions can help to “ease some of the strains in 
the supply chain right now,” adding that cash injections boost manufacturers’ ability to deliver aircrafts and “really 
ramp up production.”
It comes as supply chain problems are forecast to continue to hamper the sector into 2024, with Boeing boss David 
Calhoun recently telling an event in Doha that “we have to resolve the supply chain issues and the surprise 
associated with it; and we have to resolve it sort of once and for all.”
“That is not a short-term job. It sounds like it might be, but I think it could take all of this year and probably all of next 
year.”
At its launch announcement last month, AIP managed 30 aircrafts, alongside a Boeing MAX orderbook of an 
estimated 68 aircrafts. The firm recently raised $230mto finance the delivery of seven Boeing 737s. 
Read more
Boeing plans to ramp up 737 Max production after significant delays
Load-Date: June 15, 2023
End of Document
Cheeky Brits skip Heathrow queues by pretending to need wheelchairs after TikTok video goes viral
Cheeky Brits skip Heathrow queues by pretending to need wheelchairs after 
TikTok video goes viral
Cityam.com
July 26, 2022 Tuesday 2:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 285 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Heathrow’s boss said this afternoon that a range of airline passengers are skipping queues at his airport 
by pretending to need a wheelchair after watching a video on TikTok. The west London airport’s chief executive, 
John Holland-Kaye, described this as “the wrong thing to be doing”. He told LBC: “For passengers requiring 
wheelchair support we [...]The post Cheeky Brits skip Heathrow queues by pretending to need wheelchairs after 
TikTok video goes viral appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Heathrow’s boss said this afternoon that a range of airline passengers are skipping queues at his airport by 
pretending to need a wheelchair after watching a video on TikTok.
The west London airport’s chief executive, John Holland-Kaye, described this as “the wrong thing to be doing”.
He told LBC: “For passengers requiring wheelchair support we have more demand than we had before the 
pandemic.
                     “Why is that happening? Some of this is because people are using the wheelchair support to try to get 
fast-track through the airport.”John Holland-Kaye                   
“That is absolutely the wrong thing to be doing. We need to protect that for the people who most need help.”
“If you go on TikTok you’ll see that that is one of the travel hacks that people are recommending. Please don’t do 
that.”
A video showing a passenger skipping queues at Ibiza Airport, Spain, by feigning injury to get a wheelchair has 
been viewed 2.5 million times on TikTok.
The man is shown standing up and walking away after the flight.
Cheeky Brits skip Heathrow queues by pretending to need wheelchairs after TikTok video goes viral
Holland-Kaye added that about half of arriving passengers who request assistance only do so once they are on the 
plane.
He urged people who “really need the service” to let Heathrow know “well in advance so we can make sure there 
are enough people there to meet your needs”.
Many travellers using the airport this summer have faced long queues, with the situation blamed on staff shortages.
A cap on daily departing passenger numbers was introduced earlier this month to ease the pressure.
Read more
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
The post Cheeky Brits skip Heathrow queues by pretending to need wheelchairs after TikTok video goes viral  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2022
End of Document
We're focusing on profitable passengers not volumes, says Southend airport
We're focusing on profitable passengers not volumes, says Southend 
airport
Cityam.com
May 25, 2022 Wednesday 11:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Southend airport is focused on attracting profitable passengers back instead of worrying about volumes, 
according to David Shearer, executive chairman of the airport's owner Esken. The airport welcomed its first 
passenger flight at the beginning of May, after low-cost airline returned back to the hub, with routes services to 
Faro, Malaga and Mallorca. The airport [...]The post We're focusing on profitable passengers not volumes, says 
Southend airport appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Southend airport is focused on attracting profitable passengers back instead of worrying about volumes, according 
to David Shearer, executive chairman of the airport's owner Esken. 
The airport welcomed its first passenger flight at the beginning of May, after low-cost airline returned back to the 
hub, with routes services to Faro, Malaga and Mallorca. 
The airport was hit hard by the pandemic, as it was forced to reduce operations as passengers numbers fell 93 per 
cent, from 2.15 million in 2019-2020 to 147,000 a year later.
According to Shearer, switching the focus from passenger volumes to profitability was as "strategic shift" in the 
airport's business model. 
"The airlines are aware of that and have been working constructively with us," he told City A.M. "We're pleased to 
be having passengers back in the airport and we're looking [forward] to the rest of the year and into summer next 
year."
The executive chairman's comments come on the same day Esken posted its full year results.
The group's aviation business narrowed its adjusted losses to £0.8m, an 87 per cent improvement on the £6.2m 
lost the previous year. 
Read more
We're focusing on profitable passengers not volumes, says Southend airport
Ryanair reports 15m passengers in May as summer bookings ramp up
The post We're focusing on profitable passengers not volumes, says Southend airport  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 25, 2022
End of Document
London City Airport reports fourth consecutive busiest week
London City Airport reports fourth consecutive busiest week
Cityam.com
March 21, 2022 Monday 12:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 210 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Passenger numbers continue to grow at London City airport, as the hub reported today its fourth 
consecutive week of growth since the pandemic's start. Following the end of all UK travel restrictions, passenger 
numbers have gone up 40 per cent on February's levels, while business travel has reached 2019 figures - 
representing a 46 per [...]The post London City Airport reports fourth consecutive busiest week appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Passenger numbers continue to grow at London City airport, as the hub reported today its fourth consecutive week 
of growth since the pandemic's start. 
Following the end of all UK travel restrictions, passenger numbers have gone up 40 per cent on February's levels, 
while business travel has reached 2019 figures - representing a 46 per cent of all journeys. Core business such as 
Edinburgh, Zurich Amsterdam and Dublin have reported a substantial growth.
"The UK Government's removal of all remaining travel restrictions, including the complicated Passenger Locator 
Form and all testing requirements, is hugely welcome news for our passengers and will make travel easier again," 
said London City's head of aviation Anne Doyere. 
"This will help businesses get moving, boosting consumer confidence in travel ahead of Easter & summer, where 
LCY will be connecting to 36 destinations across Europe & the UK."
Connections such as BA's CityFlier from London City to Milan Malpensa as well as ITA's flights to Milan Linate are 
expected to help the hub reach 80 per cent of 2019 destinations. 
Read more
Irish transport minister to speak with Ryanair following airfare criticism
The post London City Airport reports fourth consecutive busiest week  appeared first on CityAM. 
London City Airport reports fourth consecutive busiest week
Load-Date: March 21, 2022
End of Document
London City launches 10-week consultation to increase passenger capacity
London City launches 10-week consultation to increase passenger capacity
Cityam.com
June 30, 2022 Thursday 7:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 308 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: London City airport launched today a 10-week consultation over its existing planning permission to 
increase passenger capacity to 9 million by 2031.  Following the end of travel restrictions, the east London hub has 
forecast that 3 million passengers will pass through its gates this year, with numbers set to increase to pre-
pandemic levels – 5 [...]The post London City launches 10-week consultation to increase passenger capacity 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
London City airport launched today a 10-week consultation over its existing planning permission to increase 
passenger capacity to 9 million by 2031. 
Following the end of travel restrictions, the east London hub has forecast that 3 million passengers will pass 
through its gates this year, with numbers set to increase to pre-pandemic levels – 5 million – by 2024. 
According to airport executives, increasing the passenger cap will not require any additional infrastructure or 
changes to the eight-hour night curfew.
“London City airport plays an incredibly important role in quickly and easily connecting London to the rest of the UK 
and the world for both business and leisure travel,” said the airport’s boss Robert Sinclair. 
Increased capacity, the airport said, will also lead to more than 2,000 new jobs, providing a boost to local business 
productivity of £530m per year.
People living in the airport’s proximity will also be called to have their say on whether the airport could extend its 
working hours on Saturday. 
Under the current regulation, the airport is open on Saturdays from 4.45am to 1pm, but if the new proposal were to 
go ahead, City would be open also during the afternoon and evening.
Additional flexibility in the first and last 30 minutes of operations has also been sought, as the airport would like to 
double the number of planes operating in that time frame.
London City launches 10-week consultation to increase passenger capacity
The proposal is based on the condition that airlines operating during the new time slots will only use new generation 
aircraft, which are quieter and greener. 
Airlines operating at City welcomed the news, saying it will provide “more choice and flexibility” for customers. 
Read more
Ryanair and pilot union Balpa reach agreement on post-Covid pay restoration
The post London City launches 10-week consultation to increase passenger capacity  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 30, 2022
End of Document
IAG and Easyjet lead travel stocks fall as EU tightens travel restrictions
IAG and Easyjet lead travel stocks fall as EU tightens travel restrictions
Cityam.com
June 28, 2021 Monday 4:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 260 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Airline stocks including BA owner IAG, Easyjet, and Ryanair all tumbled today as more European 
countries imposed travel restrictions onThe post IAG and Easyjet lead fall in travel shares as Spain and Portugal 
introduce quarantine for unvaccinated Brits appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Airline stocks including BA owner IAG, Easyjet, and Ryanair all tumbled today as more European countries 
imposed travel restrictions on UK holidaymakers.
FTSE 100 IAG was down 5.8 per cent by the mid afternoon, while budget carrier Easyjet also dropped 5.0 per cent.
Fellow blue-chip Rolls-Royce, which makes the engines used by most commercial jets, also fell 4.6 per cent.
Hungarian flier Wizz Air shed 4.7 per cent, while Irish carrier Ryanair fell 3.8 per cent.
Holiday firms Tui and Jet2 also dropped 5.1 and 5.2 per cent respectively as Spain and Portugal both said that Brits 
would have to prove they were fully vaccinated to avoid quarantine.
The decision came just days after transport secretary Grant Shapps added the Balearic islands of Mallorca and 
Ibiza to the UK's travel "green list".
It brings the Iberian countries in line with a number of other European countries which have also imposed 
mandatory quarantine for unvaccinated Brits.
German chancellor Angela Merkel has called for a standard approach to UK holidaymakers across the EU due to 
fears over the spread of the Delta variant.
At first it seemed like Spain might resist, but Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez today announced that the new 
measures would come into effect within 72 hours.
Brits who have not yet been fully vaccinated will also be able to show a negative PCR test.
IAG and Easyjet lead travel stocks fall as EU tightens travel restrictions
Before the Open: Get the jump on the markets with our early morning newsletter
The post IAG and Easyjet lead fall in travel shares as Spain and Portugal introduce quarantine for unvaccinated 
Brits  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 28, 2021
End of Document
Gatwick Airport: Almost 1,000 staff to strike for eight days bringing summer travel chaos
Gatwick Airport: Almost 1,000 staff to strike for eight days bringing summer 
travel chaos
Cityam.com
July 14, 2023 Friday 8:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 469 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight: Gatwick Airport baggage handlers and check-in staff will stage eight days of strikes from later this month 
in a dispute over pay. The announcement comes after the Unite members had backed walking out in a ballot. Unite 
said workers will strike for four days beginning on Friday 28 July ending on Tuesday 1 August, then a further [...]
Body
Gatwick Airport baggage handlers and check-in staff will stage eight days of strikes from later this month in a 
dispute over pay.
The announcement comes after the Unite members had backed walking out in a ballot. 
Unite said workers will strike for four days beginning on Friday 28 July ending on Tuesday 1 August, then a further 
four days from Friday 4 August until Tuesday 8 August.
A Gatwick Airport spokesperson told City A.M.: “We are aware of the recent ballot result and will support our airlines 
with their contingency plans to ensure that flights operate as scheduled.”
It added that individual airlines hold contracts for ground handling firms at the airport, not Gatwick itself.
The airlines affected are British Airways, Easyjet, Ryanair, TUI, Westjet and Wizz. All have been approached for 
comment.
In a statement to City A.M., the Unite Union said 950 workers set to strike are employed by four firms: ASC, 
Menzies Aviation, GGS and DHL Services Ltd, which conduct outsourced operations for major airlines. 
Read more
Global Airlines to focus on business travel as it muscles in on UK-US route
Gatwick Airport: Almost 1,000 staff to strike for eight days bringing summer travel chaos
Warning about inevitable cancellations, Unite added that it is holding further ballots, closing 31 July, for DHL 
Gatwick Direct, Red Handling and Wilson James workers, which could bring further disruption.
Unite general secretary Sharon Graham said: “Our members at Gatwick Airport undertake incredibly demanding 
roles and are essential to keeping the airport and airlines working, yet their employers somehow think it is 
acceptable to pay them a pittance.”
“As part of Unite’s unyielding focus on the jobs, pay and condition of its members the union has drawn a line in the 
sand and is committed to eradicating the scourge of low pay at the airport.”
The past 18 months have been dominated by industrial action, with walk-outs from rail and train workers, postal 
staff, NHS workers and civil servants. 
There are multiple days of strikes from London Underground staff later in July also, which risks bringing the capital 
to a grinding halt. 
According to data firm Cirium , on the days of the new Gatwick strike, a total of 4,410 flights are scheduled to depart 
Britain’s second largest airport – equating to over 840,000 seats. There are due to be 441 daily departures.
EasyJet responded to City A.M. saying: “We are extremely disappointed to hear of the proposed industrial action by 
Unite ground handlers at London Gatwick Airport on the weekends of Friday 28 July and Friday 4 August. 
“More talks between our ground handler DHL and Unite are taking place early next week to try and resolve the 
issue and we urge them to reach an agreement as soon as possible.”
                     Press Association                    
Read more
Gatwick’s £2.2bn second runway would boost important long-haul flying, says airport chief
Load-Date: July 14, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air shares dip as airlines halt all Ukraine operations
Ryanair and Wizz Air shares dip as airlines halt all Ukraine operations
Cityam.com
February 24, 2022 Thursday 1:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 424 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Shares of Wizz Air and Ryanair have dipped 11.66 and 3.19 per cent respectively after the low-cost 
airlines halted all Ukraine operations as a result of Moscow's offensive and the closure of the country's airspace. 
"All Ryanair flights to/from Ukraine have been suspended for at least the next 14 day [...] and all flights 
to/fromUkraine [...]The post Ryanair and Wizz Air shares dip as airlines halt all Ukraine operations appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Shares of Wizz Air and Ryanair have dipped 11.66 and 3.19 per cent respectively after the low-cost airlines halted 
all Ukraine operations as a result of Moscow's offensive and the closure of the country's airspace.
"All Ryanair flights to/from Ukraine have been suspended for at least the next 14 day [...] and all flights 
to/fromUkraine have been removed from sale for at least the next four weeks until further information becomes 
available from EU safety agencies," said Ryanair in a tweet this morning.
                     Our statement on flights to / from Ukraine pic.twitter.com/Dn8KSkhnn9  Ryanair Press Office 
(@RyanairPress) February 24, 2022                      Just like the Dublin-based airline, Wizz Air tweeted that all flights 
to and from the country were temporarily suspended, saying it was working to evacuate Ukrainian crew members, 
their families and four aircraft.Earlier this morning the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) published a 
conflict zone information bulletin on Ukraine, defining it as an active conflict area.The agency warned all airlines to 
avoid flying within 100 nautical miles from the Belarusian and Russian-Ukrainian border."Under these 
circumstances, the aforementioned airspace and critical infrastructure, including airports, are exposed to military 
activities which result in safety risks for civil aircraft. In particular, there is a risk of both intentional targeting and 
misidentification of civil aircraft," EASA said in a statement. Willie Walsh, former IAG chief executive and now 
director general of the International Air Transport Association (IATA), said the trade association was cooperating 
with airlines to help plan operations."IATA is helping to facilitate the relevant and timely sharing of information with 
airlines from government and non-government sources to support airlines as they plan their operations around 
airspace closures in the Ukraine and parts of Russia," he said via social media."The escalation of events in Ukraine 
is deeply saddening. We hope for an early and peaceful resolution. For aviation, safety is always the top 
priority."The escalation of events in #Ukraine  is deeply saddening. We hope for an early and peaceful 
Ryanair and Wizz Air shares dip as airlines halt all Ukraine operations
resolution.For #aviation , safety is always the top priority. pic.twitter.com/B3ZrDhyUut &mdash; IATA (@IATA) 
February 24, 2022
Read more
Carlsberg and Coca-Cola bottler forced to halt production in Ukraine after Russian invasion
The post Ryanair and Wizz Air shares dip as airlines halt all Ukraine operations  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2022
End of Document
Government doesn’t know whether traffic-light travel system worked
Government doesn’t know whether traffic-light travel system worked
Cityam.com
July 26, 2022 Tuesday 4:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 342 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The UK Government doesn’t know whether the traffic-light system implemented during the pandemic 
worked.  According to a report published today by the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), ministers spent £486m on 
travel measures to contain the spread of Covid but “did not track its spending on managing cross-border travel or 
set clear objectives.” The group of [...]The post Government doesn’t know whether traffic-light travel system worked 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK Government doesn’t know whether the traffic-light system implemented during the pandemic worked. 
According to a report published today by the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), ministers spent £486m on travel 
measures to contain the spread of Covid but “did not track its spending on managing cross-border travel or set clear 
objectives.”
The group of cross-party MPs said that – despite relying massively on airlines to carry out checks on health 
documentation – the government didn’t give aviation sector-specific support. 
It also didn’t allow enough time for the industry to adjust to the changes in legislation.
“The government changed the rules at least 10 times between February 2021 and January 2022, but gave the 
travel industry little time to adapt its operations for those changes,” the report read.
The PAC argued that the ministers throughout the pandemic worked on a crisis-response mode, not learning 
lessons from the pandemic fast enough. 
“In the longer term, health measures may be needed to deal with new variants of Covid-19 or other diseases such 
as monkeypox, so the government needs to ensure it is able to respond quickly,” MPs added. 
Kurt Janson, director of the Tourism Alliance, said the report’s findings were concerning.
Government doesn’t know whether traffic-light travel system worked
“We were continually assured at the time that the frequently changing traffic light system was a sound and 
proportionate response to the risks, yet we now find that the government does not know whether the system worked 
or whether the cost was worth the disruption,” he told City A.M.”
Introduced in early 2021, the traffic light system set the rules for international travel based on a country’s level of 
Covid risk. 
Countries were sorted into green, amber and red lists and those travelling from red-list nations were forced to 
quarantine for 10 days in a government-approved hotel.
City A.M. has approached the Cabinet Office for comment.
Read more
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
The post Government doesn’t know whether traffic-light travel system worked  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2022
End of Document
Ray-Ban maker enjoys spike in revenue ahead of a summer with fewer restrictions
Ray-Ban maker enjoys spike in revenue ahead of a summer with fewer 
restrictions
Cityam.com
April 22, 2022 Friday 7:19 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 206 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Eyewear group EssilorLuxottica SA, the maker of Ray-Ban, has enjoyed a spike in revenue over the 
past three months, as consumers gear up for summer. The French-Italian retailer snagged a cool £4.67bn in the 
first quarter of the year, up more than a third year-on-year, with consumers more likely to be making trips abroad 
this [...]The post Ray-Ban maker enjoys spike in revenue ahead of a summer with fewer restrictions appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Eyewear group EssilorLuxottica SA, the maker of Ray-Ban, has enjoyed a spike in revenue over the past three 
months, as consumers gear up for summer.
The French-Italian retailer snagged a cool £4.67bn in the first quarter of the year, up more than a third year-on-year, 
with consumers more likely to be making trips abroad this year with reduced pandemic restrictions.
Sales in China, however, fell during March. The country has been hit by spiralling cases of Covid-19, and a zero-
tolerance stance on the virus has seen lockdowns blanket several large cities and ground a number of flights.
In a joint statement, CEO Francesco Milleri and deputy CEO Paul du Saillant hailed the "strong start" to the year.
"It's a great moment for EssilorLuxottica - we are off to a good sun season, demand for luxury brands continues and 
our innovative products like Stellest are beginning to rewrite the story of sight for so many people," they said.
The group has also raised some £3.3m for Ukrainian aid efforts, which includes donations from 10,000 employees.
Read more
Ryanair's boss says summer fares will go up to 10 per cent of 2019 levels
The post Ray-Ban maker enjoys spike in revenue ahead of a summer with fewer restrictions  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Ray-Ban maker enjoys spike in revenue ahead of a summer with fewer restrictions
Load-Date: April 22, 2022
End of Document
Travel and tourism vacancies threaten UK economic recovery
Travel and tourism vacancies threaten UK economic recovery
Cityam.com
August 1, 2022 Monday 11:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 376 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The UK’s economic recovery is being threatened by significant vacancies in the travel and tourism 
sector.  According to a report published today by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), 128,000 industry 
jobs go unfulfilled in Britain, with one in 14 jobs remaining vacant. Figures revealed that the UK’s hotel industry was 
the worst hit [...]The post Travel and tourism vacancies threaten UK economic recovery appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK’s economic recovery is being threatened by significant vacancies in the travel and tourism sector. 
According to a report published today by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), 128,000 industry jobs go 
unfulfilled in Britain, with one in 14 jobs remaining vacant.
Figures revealed that the UK’s hotel industry was the worst hit as unfulfilled vacancies reached 18 per cent. Hotels 
were followed by entertainment’s 12 per cent and aviation’s 11 per cent.
“Travel & Tourism contributed nearly £235bn to the economy and employed almost two million people,” said 
WTTC’s chief executive Julia Simpson. 
“Now visitors are arriving to find restaurants, hotels and entertainment venues without staff, and we will lose these 
travellers and their dollars to other countries.”
The chief executive blamed the situation on the government’s refusal to grant temporary visas to overseas workers. 
“Big brands cannot understand why countries in Europe are bringing in skilled workers like chefs, but the UK Home 
Office is not deploying the flexible ‘point system’ visas they promised,” she added. 
“The sector was one of the hardest hit in the pandemic, losing 50 per cent of its value, it needs government action 
now.”
Simpson’s words were echoed by those of Kurt Janson, director of the Tourism Alliance, who said: “The 
government needs to work with the industry to develop a plan to resolve this problem that includes creative 
Travel and tourism vacancies threaten UK economic recovery
solutions such as agreeing Youth Mobility Scheme agreements with European countries that would allow people 
from 18-35 to come to the UK for up to two years.”
The remarks came after aviation industry called on the government to use more common sense when applying 
post-Brexit immigration rules – identified as one of the main reasons for the labour shortages that are currently 
plaguing airports and airlines.
“We have this bizarre situation at the moment that in the UK I can get visas to bring Moroccans to come in and work 
as cabin crew,” said Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary. 
“But I can’t get visas for Portuguese or Italians or Slovakian youngsters.”
Read more
Unite renews threat to pull funding from Labour over Starmer stance on strikes
The post Travel and tourism vacancies threaten UK economic recovery  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 1, 2022
End of Document
Sunak accused of acting ‘like A-list celeb’ by flying to Blackpool instead of £257 strike-affected train ride
Sunak accused of acting ‘like A-list celeb’ by flying to Blackpool instead of 
£257 strike-affected train ride
Cityam.com
January 19, 2023 Thursday 3:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 672 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight: Rishi Sunak has been criticised for using a jet to travel to Blackpool as he opts for flights around Britain 
rather than trains. The Prime Minister took an RAF jet from Northolt to Blackpool as he carried out a series of visits 
in northern England linked to an announcement on new levelling up funding. Labour [...]The post Sunak accused of 
acting ‘like A-list celeb’ by flying to Blackpool instead of £257 strike-affected train ride appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Rishi Sunak has been criticised for using a jet to travel to Blackpool as he opts for flights around Britain rather than 
trains.
The Prime Minister took an RAF jet from Northolt to Blackpool as he carried out a series of visits in northern 
England linked to an announcement on new levelling up funding.
Labour accused Mr Sunak of “jetting around the country on taxpayers’ money like an A-list celeb” and making a 
“mockery” of his environmental strategy after the 41-minute flight on Thursday.
But Downing Street defended the mode of transport as making “the best use of his time” and Mr Sunak said he had 
to be as “effective as possible”.
A train journey from London Euston to Blackpool takes less than three hours, with a single fare coming in at £73.40, 
or £189.80 to travel during peak hours. First class could cost £257.
Disruption and delays hit earlier services on Thursday.
Tory MP Mark Jenkinson defended Mr Sunak’s jet use, saying “he’s the Prime Minister, multiple train changes with 
a security detail and unreliable” Avanti West Coast trains “would be madness”.
Mr Sunak instead made the trip on a Dassault Falcon 900LX, with the French manufacturer having reportedly been 
favoured by stars including Taylor Swift.
Sunak accused of acting ‘like A-list celeb’ by flying to Blackpool instead of £257 strike-affected train ride
Last week, No 10 defended Mr Sunak flying to Leeds because there is a “great deal of pressure” on his schedule.
He went on to take an RAF plane to Scotland as he announced two new “green” freeports.
Read more
Flying high: Ryanair breaks another monthly record with 15.7m passengers in October
On Thursday, Mr Sunak admitted that “trying to get across the north is not as easy as it should be” while speaking 
to an audience in Morecambe, Lancashire, before defending his jet use.
“I travel around so I can do lots of things in one day, I’m not travelling around just for my own enjoyment – although 
this is very enjoyable, of course,” he said.
“Trust me, I’m working as hard as I can to deliver for you and I travel to make myself as effective as possible.”
His spokesman said Mr Sunak uses “different modes of transport depending on what’s in the best interest of the 
best use of his time to enable him to get around the entire UK”.
The official did not know when the Prime Minister had last travelled by train, saying: “I haven’t asked him that 
question.”
Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner said: “Rishi Sunak’s expensive private jet habit is costing the environment 
and the taxpayer dear.
“Instead of catching the train like the rest of us, he’s swanning around like a washed-up A-lister courtesy of the 
public, making a mockery of his own Government’s ‘zero-jet’ strategy.”
John Travolta and Ms Swift are among the stars who have reportedly had Dassault jets in their collections.
Lib Dem deputy leader Daisy Cooper said: “Rishi Sunak has learnt nothing from the past few weeks as he 
continues to jet about the country on taxpayers’ money.
“It is simply ridiculous that he can’t get a train like the rest of the British public do.
“Yet again, this Prime Minister is completely out of touch with the rest of society.”
Mr Sunak was in Lancashire to discuss the allocation of £2 billion in levelling up funding.
Ministers have defended London and the South East getting the largest share of the funding, receiving £362 million 
compared to the North West’s £354 million, £109 million for the North East and £177 million for Scotland.
Critics have also said Tory areas are being favoured with Catterick Garrison in the Prime Minister’s wealthy North 
Yorkshire seat receiving £19 million to regenerate the high street.
But Mr Sunak said: “If you look at the overall funding in the levelling-up funds that we’ve done, about two-thirds of 
all that funding has gone to the most deprived part of our country.”
                     Press Association – Sam Blewett                    
Read more
Brexit law bonfire could put environment at risk and cost tens of billions of pounds, nature groups warn
The post Sunak accused of acting ‘like A-list celeb’ by flying to Blackpool instead of £257 strike-affected train ride  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Sunak accused of acting ‘like A-list celeb’ by flying to Blackpool instead of £257 strike-affected train ride
Load-Date: January 19, 2023
End of Document
Airlines call on EU to include polluting flights in CO2 pricing scheme
Airlines call on EU to include polluting flights in CO2 pricing scheme
Cityam.com
December 7, 2022 Wednesday 4:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 300 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Airlines have called on the EU Commission to include long-haul and more polluting flights into its 
environmental regulation. The comments come on the heels of the Commission announcing that EU airlines will pay 
more for their CO2 emissions. “Yet again the Commission led by Ursula von der Leyen has abandoned the 
environment and Europe’s ordinary [...]The post Airlines call on EU to include polluting flights in CO2 pricing 
scheme appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Airlines have called on the EU Commission to include long-haul and more polluting flights into its environmental 
regulation. 
The comments come on the heels of the Commission announcing that EU airlines will pay more for their CO2 
emissions. 
“Yet again the Commission led by Ursula von der Leyen has abandoned the environment and Europe’s ordinary 
families,” said Ryanair ‘s boss Michael O’Leary.
“The Commission’s failure to support the Parliament vote means that Europe’s most polluting flights (long-haul and 
transfer passengers) who create the majority of EU aviation emissions, will continue to be exempt from paying their 
fair share of ETS taxes.”
O’Leary’s remarks were echoed by Easyjet, which said it was disappointed by the decision.
Under the current legislative framework, airlines that operate intra-European flights have to submit permits to the 
bloc’s carbon market to cover their emissions.
Usually handed out for free, these permits are not needed by those operating long-haul flights.
Legislators announced today they will phase the permits out gradually over the next four years, meaning that 
carriers will begin to pay for their CO2 emissions.
Airlines call on EU to include polluting flights in CO2 pricing scheme
Just a small amount of permits will remain free and will be given between 2024 and 2030 to airlines that use 
sustainable aviation fuels (SAFs).
O’Leary’s comments were echoed by other EU carriers and environmentalists alike. 
Trade body Airlines for Europe said the scheme will run out before greener fuel solutions are implemented on a 
large scale. 
While environmentalists from NGO Transport & Environment said the deal ignored “the biggest chunk of CO2 
aviation emissions.”
Read more
Christmas strikes: Border Force to walk out for eight days
The post Airlines call on EU to include polluting flights in CO2 pricing scheme  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 7, 2022
End of Document
Sky high? Wizz Air enjoys Christmas bump as passenger levels increase
Sky high? Wizz Air enjoys Christmas bump as passenger levels increase
Cityam.com
January 3, 2023 Tuesday 7:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 371 words
Byline: Andy Silvester
Highlight: London-listed budget airline Wizz Air will be avoiding the January blues this year after a pre-Christmas 
traveller bump boosted 2022’s passenger numbers. The airline flew 4.18m passengers in December, up more than 
50 per cent on this time last year when some parts of its European network were affected by Omicron travel 
destinations. The December [...]The post Sky high? Wizz Air enjoys Christmas bump as passenger levels increase 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
London-listed budget airline Wizz Air will be avoiding the January blues this year after a pre-Christmas traveller 
bump boosted 2022’s passenger numbers. 
The airline flew 4.18m passengers in December, up more than 50 per cent on this time last year when some parts 
of its European network were affected by Omicron travel destinations. 
The December numbers took the airline’s overall passenger load to 45.6m, representing 86.7 per cent of seating 
capacity, it said in a statement to markets this morning.
The entire industry has been in recovery mode this year after travel restrictions and Covid-19 fallout all but wiped 
out international travel for much of 2020 and 2021. 
Even 2022 was not without drama as the rapid uptick in travel demand was not matched by staffing and supply, 
leading to angry scenes at chaotic airports in the UK and across the continent. 
The low-cost carrier Wizz announced a host of expansions in December, including new routes linking Italy and 
Austria with Gulf power Saudi Arabia.
It has also placed new aircraft at bases in Rome, Vienna, Warsaw, Tirana and Belgrade amongst other regional 
spots. 
The carrier was dragged over the coals last month by the UK’s aviation regulator over what it termed 
“unacceptable” behaviour on customer complaints and refunds.
Sky high? Wizz Air enjoys Christmas bump as passenger levels increase
The airline outranked rivals Easyjet and Ryanair for the number of so-called ‘escalated’ complaints. 
“The volume of complaints and claims received… in respect of Wizz Air is far higher than those seen for other 
airlines,” said Anna Bowles, head of consumer policy & enforcement at the Civil Aviation Authority.
The aviation regulator also questioned Wizz’s time to process refund claims. 
“We have made it clear to Wizz Air that its behaviour is unacceptable and that we expect overdue complaints and 
claims to be resolved in advance of Christmas,” Bowles added.
A Wizz Air spokesperson apologised for the inconvenience caused, saying the company had dealt with an 
“unprecedented number of claims” following this summer’s disruption.
Read more
Amid a recession and a cost of living crisis, there are still reasons to be cheerful on the economy
The post Sky high? Wizz Air enjoys Christmas bump as passenger levels increase  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 3, 2023
End of Document
Drug-drivers could be forced to take rehabilitation courses before using cars under new government plan
Drug-drivers could be forced to take rehabilitation courses before using cars 
under new government plan
Cityam.com
April 5, 2022 Tuesday 12:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 232 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Drug-drivers could be forced to take rehabilitation courses before being allowed to get behind the wheel, 
according to proposed government plans. Transport secretary Grant Shapps today launched a call for evidence to 
decide whether those who had been caught drug-driving need to follow in drink-drivers' footsteps and complete 
rehabilitation. "If we are to make our [...]The post Drug-drivers could be forced to take rehabilitation courses before 
using cars under new government plan appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Drug-drivers could be forced to take rehabilitation courses before being allowed to get behind the wheel, according 
to proposed government plans.
Transport secretary Grant Shapps today launched a call for evidence to decide whether those who had been 
caught drug-driving need to follow in drink-drivers' footsteps and complete rehabilitation. 
"If we are to make our roads safer still, there is no room to be lax on drug-driving, which is why I have launched this 
call for evidence today," he said. 
"It's only right that drug-drivers must undergo rehabilitation before getting back behind the wheel, helping protect 
the public from this hidden problem and stamping out drug-driving for good."
While the number of drink-drive related deaths has gone down 88 per cent between 1979 and 2015, drug-driving 
collisions have gone up significantly over the last few years. 
In 2016 the number of injuries in drug-driving car accidents was 499 but went up to 713 in 2020, with police 
arresting more drug-drivers than drunk ones. 
RAC's head of roads policy Nicholas Lyes welcomed the government decision, saying rehabilitation courses help to 
"reduce reoffending and improve road safety."
Read more
Drug-drivers could be forced to take rehabilitation courses before using cars under new government plan
Ryanair's boss says summer fares will go up to 10 per cent of 2019 levels
The post Drug-drivers could be forced to take rehabilitation courses before using cars under new government plan  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 5, 2022
End of Document
Heathrow boss: Aviation sector can’t bank on soaring demand continuing into winter
Heathrow boss: Aviation sector can’t bank on soaring demand continuing 
into winter
Cityam.com
July 31, 2023 Monday 1:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 532 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: The aviation sector should not bank on soaring demand continuing, the boss of Heathrow airport has 
warned, amid concerns in the sector that airlines could struggle after summer without corporate travels’ sustained 
recovery. “We all want to make the most of the demand while it’s here but we can’t bank on it continuing,” long-time 
chief [...]
Body
The aviation sector should not bank on soaring demand continuing, the boss of Heathrow airport has warned, amid 
concerns in the sector that airlines could struggle after summer without corporate travels’ sustained recovery.
“We all want to make the most of the demand while it’s here but we can’t bank on it continuing,” long-time chief 
John Holland-Kaye toldCity A.M.
While leisure travel bookings have soared ahead of expectations, business demand has recovered much more 
slowly, which could create issues when the busiest months – traditionally May to October – come to an end.
“What we’re seeing at the moment is leisure demand is ahead of where it was in 2019, business demand is behind 
where it was in 2019,” Holland-Kaye explained.
“Business was about 34 per cent of our demand in 2019, it’s now down. So it is coming back much more slowly, 
which is sort of what we would have expected. The surprise is that leisure demand is defying gravity and I think we 
all think it’s only a question of time before that starts to slow down,” he said. 
Aviation has seen an unprecedented boom over the last few months as a result of pent-up demand for holidays 
post-pandemic and despite ongoing cost-of-living concerns and a difficult macroeconomic backdrop.
Both Easyjet and the IAG reported record profits for their last quarters in July, with the British Airways’ owner 
netting a colossal €1.25bn (£1.07bn). Ryanair, though slightly more tempered, still flew past pre-pandemic levels on 
the back of strong demand.
Heathrow boss: Aviation sector can’t bank on soaring demand continuing into winter
John Grant, senior analyst at aviation analytics firm OAG, said “the great unknown, which airlines are watching is 
the corporate recovery, which has been much slower than anticipated and at this time of the year is traditionally at 
its lowest point.”
“Airlines are hoping that corporate demand will recover in the last quarter of the year and at that in turn will fill those 
crucial premium class seats that some leisure travellers have been filling for the last few years, it is the great 
unknown and with airlines noting this issue as a factor in their year-end guidance its clearly something that needs to 
be watched,” he explained.
Rob Morris, global head of consultancy at aviation analytics firm Cirium’s ascend branch, told City A.M.that the UK’s 
economic outlook and high inflation could see “weakening airline passenger demand,” as we head into the fourth 
quarter.
“The release of frustrated demand from Covid is almost completed, which means that the drivers for so-called 
‘revenge travel’ are weakening. Accumulated savings which many built up through Covid are eroding with higher 
prices in other parts of the economy meaning leisure passengers are potentially prioritising spend in other areas in 
2024,” he said. 
He added that business travel was continuing its recovery, “but in that sector high fares are typically driving many 
corporations to manage budgets more efficiently, which could slow recovery and/or potential growth.”
“We’d tend to agree that significant uncertainty exists around airline demand post-summer 2023 and, for most, this 
period may be as good as it gets for a while,” he said. 
Read more
Heathrow narrows losses but blames CAA price cap for staying in the red
Load-Date: July 31, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air named worst short-haul airline by UK passengers
Wizz Air named worst short-haul airline by UK passengers
Cityam.com
February 22, 2023 Wednesday 7:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 598 words
Byline: Samantha Downes
Highlight: Wizz Air has been named the worst short-haul airline by UK passengers. Passengers surveyed by 
consumer group Which? gave the Hungary-based carrier one star out of five for boarding experience, cabin 
environment and seat comfort. The budget airline’s seat pitch – the difference between two rows in standard 
economy – is 28 inches, some two inches smaller [...]The post Wizz Air named worst short-haul airline by UK 
passengers appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air has been named the worst short-haul airline by UK passengers.
Passengers surveyed by consumer group Which? gave the Hungary-based carrier one star out of five for boarding 
experience, cabin environment and seat comfort.
The budget airline’s seat pitch – the difference between two rows in standard economy – is 28 inches, some two 
inches smaller than rival Ryanair.
No more than two stars were awarded in any of the remaining categories, including value for money and 
cleanliness.
Wizz Air operates short-haul flights from eight UK airports including Birmingham, Edinburgh, Gatwick and Luton.
The airline’s overall customer score of 48 per cent put it at the bottom of the ranking, below Ryanair (52 per cent, 
Eurowings (53 per cent) and British Airways (56 per cent).
Read more
London Heathrow back to its best? 5.4m passengers passed through in January as satisfaction soars
In December, the Civil Aviation Authority said it has “significant concerns” about Wizz Air’s “unacceptable” 
behaviour as its passengers were far more likely to make escalated complaints than those of other carriers.
The regulator also found that the airline was delaying paying money owed to passengers.
Wizz Air named worst short-haul airline by UK passengers
Jet2.com had the highest score (80%) in the Which? research, ahead of Turkish Airlines (78%).
Which? Travel editor Rory Boland said: “Travellers have had a torrid time in recent years, with last-minute delays 
and cancellations an unacceptably common occurrence.
“While airlines like Jet2.com have distinguished themselves by offering flyers excellent customer care and a reliable 
service, too many of their competitors continually fail to measure up.
“If alternative carriers are available for your route, avoid Wizz Air, as its poor record on customer care means you’re 
likely to be left high and dry in the event your flight is delayed or cancelled.”
Which? surveyed 8,046 UK adults in October 2022 about their experiences of flying in the previous two years.
Customer scores for airlines were calculated from a combination of travellers’ overall satisfaction and their 
likelihood to recommend.
A Wizz Air spokesman said: “At Wizz Air, we do everything possible to ensure that passengers reach their 
destination on time and with minimal delay.
“Wizz Air operates a fleet of brand new, state-of-the-art Airbus aircraft, with an average age of 4.6 years, which 
offer passengers comfort, space and modern interiors.
“The A321neo features the widest single-aisle cabin configuration with 239 18-inch-wide seats.
“Every aircraft is cleaned after each flight and deep cleaned every night.”
A British Airways spokesman said: “We don’t feel this small survey, conducted during one of the most challenging 
periods in global aviation, accurately represents the views of the tens of millions of customers who’ve chosen to fly 
with us over the same period.
“While we don’t claim to get everything right every time, we continue to be recognised for the service we offer.
“Our customers tell us they appreciate being able to choose from a range of cabins, flying to and from central 
airports at convenient times of the day, plus our investment in new aircraft, new seating, wifi, new menus, the 
complimentary snacks and water we offer in our short-haul economy cabin, and the most generous hand baggage 
allowance of any UK airline.”
Ryanair and Eurowings did not provide a response.
                       Press Association                   
Read more
Flying start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on Ryanair and Wizz Air
The post Wizz Air named worst short-haul airline by UK passengers  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 22, 2023
End of Document
Tesla extends production halt at Shanghai plant following city lockdown
Tesla extends production halt at Shanghai plant following city lockdown
Cityam.com
March 31, 2022 Thursday 12:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Tesla extended its production halt at a Shanghai plant for at least one more day, as the city was posed 
under a two-stage lockdown from earlier this week. The lockdown - which ends tomorrow for the eastern part of the 
city - initially allowed Tesla to resume production on Friday. But according to the latest [...]The post Tesla extends 
production halt at Shanghai plant following city lockdown appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Tesla extended its production halt at a Shanghai plant for at least one more day, as the city was posed under a two-
stage lockdown from earlier this week.
The lockdown - which ends tomorrow for the eastern part of the city - initially allowed Tesla to resume production on 
Friday. 
But according to the latest internal notice, operations will restart on 2 April, as the electric vehicle giant was yet to 
secure permits for its trucks to deliver the vehicles in the western parts of the city. 
To combat a surge in Covid cases, Chinese authorities curbed the movement of goods and people, as they banned 
unapproved vehicles from streets and told citizens to stay home.
Warehouse were shut down too, while key airports and ports remained open, causing transport costs to increase, 
City A.M. reported. 
Logistics giant Maersk said that Shanghai's decision would damage the already weakened supply chain. 
"Trucking service in and out (of) Shanghai will be severely impacted by 30 per cent due to a full lockdown on 
Shanghai's Pudong and Puxi areas in turn until 5 April," Maersk said in an advisory on Tuesday. 
"Consequently, there will be longer delivery time and a possible rise in transport costs such as detour fee and 
highway fee."
Read more
Tesla extends production halt at Shanghai plant following city lockdown
Ryanair expects annual losses near middle of forecast range
The post Tesla extends production halt at Shanghai plant following city lockdown  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 31, 2022
End of Document
Face masks on flights are not going anywhere, experts warn
Face masks on flights are not going anywhere, experts warn
Cityam.com
February 1, 2022 Tuesday 8:09 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 204 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Travellers will be wearing a mask aboard flights for the foreseeable future, as aviation experts believe it 
will be impossible for single carriers to remove the policy anytime soon. Aviation insiders believe UK airlines will 
look for "international consistency" before allowing a policy change, acting as one. "Until there is a harmonised 
lifting of mask [...]The post Face masks on flights are not going anywhere, experts warn appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Travellers will be wearing a mask aboard flights for the foreseeable future, as aviation experts believe it will be 
impossible for single carriers to remove the policy anytime soon.
Aviation insiders believe UK airlines will look for "international consistency" before allowing a policy change, acting 
as one.
"Until there is a harmonised lifting of mask mandates on flights by governments worldwide it is simpler for airlines to 
keep the rules in place," a source told the Times. 
Ryanai's chief financial officer Neil Sorahan yesterday said the low-cost carrier wasn't planning to remove 
mandatory face coverings. 
"Masks will be something that will be with us for a while longer to come. If that is the price we have to pay for the 
next few months, into summer - it's a small price to pay," he said. 
Sorahan compared the mandatory use of masks to the security rules introduced post 9/11 such as the limitations on 
liquids. 
"It's a bit like after 9/11, we ended up with our toiletries in plastic bags, maybe we'll have to live with masks for a 
while longer."
Read more
Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss
Face masks on flights are not going anywhere, experts warn
The post Face masks on flights are not going anywhere, experts warn  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 1, 2022
End of Document
Staff shortages could cause summer travel chaos again – and 40 per cent of industry bosses blame Brexit
Staff shortages could cause summer travel chaos again – and 40 per cent of 
industry bosses blame Brexit
Cityam.com
January 11, 2023 Wednesday 3:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 389 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Summer 2023 could spell additional trouble for the UK travel industry, with over half of rail and airline 
operators worrying about future staffing shortages – and almost 40 per cent blaming Brexit. Data published today 
by software company SAP show that 55 per cent of industry decision makers believe staffing challenges will impact 
customers’ travel [...]The post Staff shortages could cause summer travel chaos again – and 40 per cent of industry 
bosses blame Brexit appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Summer 2023 could spell additional trouble for the UK travel industry, with over half of rail and airline operators 
worrying about future staffing shortages – and almost 40 per cent blaming Brexit.
Data published today by software company SAP show that 55 per cent of industry decision makers believe staffing 
challenges will impact customers’ travel plans this year with 34 per cent saying issues will peak in the summer 
months.
It comes as the UK aviation industry was plagued by severe delays and disruption over the past summer to a boom 
in travel demand combined with staff shortages. 
Airlines and airport executives blamed each other for the travel chaos, with each side arguing the other didn’t hire 
enough staff to cater to the post-pandemic surge of air travel. 
Today’s figures have confirmed the trend, with 40 per cent of senior executives agreeing that the issues were 
caused by “an inability to forecast supply and demand.”
                     Brexit to blame?                   
Another 40 per cent said that last year’s disruption was due to the lack of collaboration and intelligence sharing 
between industry and government, whilst 38 per cent blamed Brexit  for constraining the pool of available talent. 
Staff shortages could cause summer travel chaos again – and 40 per cent of industry bosses blame Brexit
Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary  called on the government in July to implement post-Brexit  immigration rules with a 
“bit more common sense.”
The chief executive said it was easier for the low-cost carrier to reclute extra-EU nationals to work in Britain than to 
get visas for “Portuguese or Italian or Slovakian youngsters.”
To address labour shortfalls, around 35 per cent of respondents believe they will have to sacrifice their 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) targets in favour of staffing.
According to SAP’s head of telco, media and service industries Dominique Kunze, airline and rail businesses don’t 
have to sacrifice ESG as they can rely on technology.
“This allows travel providers to focus on what they do best – helping people get to where they need to be in the 
most environmentally friendly and cost-efficient way possible,” she said.
Read more
Uranium detected in package at Heathrow as terror police vow to ‘follow every avenue’ – but where did it come 
from?
The post Staff shortages could cause summer travel chaos again – and 40 per cent of industry bosses blame Brexit  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 11, 2023
End of Document
King can rely on his Queen for more Cheltenham glory
King can rely on his Queen for more Cheltenham glory
Cityam.com
March 16, 2022 Wednesday 7:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 687 words
Byline: Bill Esdaile
Highlight: IT HAD been a long time in between drinks for Alan King at the Cheltenham Festival before 
Edwardstone landed Tuesday's Sporting Life Arkle. His last winner at this meeting was Uxizandre in the 2015 
Ryanair, incidentally also AP McCoy's final Festival winner, but he may not have to wait too long for the next one. 
[...]The post King can rely on his Queen for more Cheltenham glory appeared first on CityAM.
Body
IT HAD been a long time in between drinks for Alan King at the Cheltenham Festival before Edwardstone landed 
Tuesday's Sporting Life Arkle.
His last winner at this meeting was Uxizandre in the 2015 Ryanair, incidentally also AP McCoy's final Festival 
winner, but he may not have to wait too long for the next one.
                     THE GLANCING QUEEN takes her chance in this afternoon's Craft Irish Whiskey Co. Plate Handicap 
Chase (4.10pm), where she must have a massive chance after her fine second to L'Homme Presse in the Paddy 
Power Novices' Chase here on New Year's Day. 
She had Ultima Handicap third Oscar Elite well behind her that day and the handicapper kindly decided to drop her 
a pound to a mark of 141.
Considering she had won two Listed mares' novice chases on her previous two starts, I think it's fair to say she is 
well-handicapped off that mark.
At 11/2 with Fitzdares, she looks a decent bet to give King and Tom Cannon another memorable winner.
Celebre D'Allen and Imperial Alcazar are both worthy challengers, although the former is a 10-year-old and you 
have to go back to 2011 to find the last time a horse of that age was successful.
There are some interesting contenders from Ireland like Grand Paradis and Fancy Foundations, but I'm happy to 
stick with the mare.
King can rely on his Queen for more Cheltenham glory
In the closing Kim Muir Handicap Chase (5.30pm), COME ON TEDDY looks over-priced at 16/1 with bet365 who 
are offering six places.
Tom George's eight-year-old was third in the Pertemps Final last year and then fifth in the aforementioned Paddy 
Power Novices' Chase here in January.
That looks to be strong form, over a trip too short for him, and Will Biddick is a good jockey booking. 
He made a couple of errors last time at Newcastle, which he can't afford to do in this, but he always goes well at 
Cheltenham and looks to have solid claims.
I will also throw a few quid each-way on MISTER FOGPATCHES at 12/1 with bet365.
He struggles to get his head in front, but he is very consistent and ran well to be second to Commodore here in 
December.
He has also been placed in the Cork Grand National, the Troytown and the Thyestes this season, three of the most 
competitive handicap chases in Ireland, so we know he thrives on this kind of test.
Patrick Mullins has been booked by Pat Fahy which is a good sign of confidence in his chance.
Gordon Elliott holds a strong hand with Frontal Assault and Smoking Gun, while School Boy Hours would be a 
threat to all but if the ground dries out too quickly he might not even run. 
Winter Fog has been the talking horse for the Pertemps Final (2.10pm) over the past couple of weeks but he is now 
pretty short at 5/1.
The one who I think is the best-handicapped in the race is ALAPHILIPPE for Fergal O'Brien.
He was just behind Stattler in last year's Albert Bartlett and reappeared with an eyecatching run in a qualifier at 
Warwick in January behind Sporting John.
Dropped a couple of pounds for that, he will be running off 138 this afternoon and I think he will prove plenty better 
than that in the future.
At 7/1 with Fitzdares' six places, he represents decent value.
You cannot rule out 2019 and 2020 winner Sire Du Berlais who stepped up to the Stayers' Hurdle last year and 
finished second to Flooring Porter. 
Back in these calmer waters, and with Rob James taking off seven pounds from the saddle, he has to be respected 
off just a four-pound higher mark than when last successful two years ago.
Whoever you're backing today, you should also have a go at racing prediction game Whoknowswins. 
All you have to do is download the app, enter the Cheltenham league on the home page and pick your selections in 
all of today's races.
Each entry costs £5 and you can enter up to 20 times. The punter with the most correct picks at the end of the day 
wins the pool, with the top 20 percent of entrants also receiving a pay-out.
                     POINTERS                   
Alaphilippe e/w 2.10pm Cheltenham 
The Glancing Queen e/w 4.10pm Cheltenham 
Come On Teddy e/w 5.30pm Cheltenham
King can rely on his Queen for more Cheltenham glory
Mister Fogpatches e/w 5.30pm Cheltenham
The post King can rely on his Queen for more Cheltenham glory  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 16, 2022
End of Document
Not so easy yet: Budget airlines far from recovered as number of passengers keeps on dropping
Not so easy yet: Budget airlines far from recovered as number of 
passengers keeps on dropping
Cityam.com
November 3, 2021 Wednesday 2:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 322 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Two of London's main budget airlines showed that they have far from recovered from the Covid-19 
pandemic, as the number of passengers they carried dropped in January. Even when compared to Omicron-hit 
December, the airlines said that they had lost 2.7m passengers between them. Ryanair was the worst hit in January 
when compared to the [...]The post Not so easy yet: Budget airlines far from recovered as number of passengers 
keeps on dropping appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Two of London's main budget airlines showed that they have far from recovered from the Covid-19 pandemic, as 
the number of passengers they carried dropped in January.
Even when compared to Omicron-hit December, the airlines said that they had lost 2.7m passengers between 
them.
Ryanair was the worst hit in January when compared to the month before. The number of passengers that it carried 
dropped 26 per cent- from 9.5m to just 7m.
Meanwhile, Wizz Air saw its passenger figures dip 9 per cent to 2.4m, it revealed on Wednesday.
                     Industry under pressure                   
The data casts new light on the challenging situation faced by airlines. Around the world many planes have been 
grounded for months at a time due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Governments put restrictions on international travel early on in a bid to slow the spread of the virus across borders.
But investors are now hoping that the airlines can move beyond Covid. The share price of both companies has 
recovered and is now trading at around, or above, its pre-pandemic level.
Not so easy yet: Budget airlines far from recovered as number of passengers keeps on dropping
It is a different story at rival IAG, which owns British Airways. Investors are clearly worried about the firm and its 
shares price is nearly two thirds lower than before the pandemic.
Wednesday's figures have something to cheer for both budget airlines. Wizz Air showed that it had more than 
quadrupled the number of passengers it carried compared to January 2021 - but it is still lagging behind its figures 
from a year before that.
Ryanair showed an even larger jump, increasing its passenger numbers more than fivefold.
It flew 46,000 flights in January, and its planes were 79 per cent full. Wizz Air's so-called load factor was 79.6 per 
cent.
Read more
Putting passengers first: Airlines to offer compensation if domestic flight is an hour late
The post Not so easy yet: Budget airlines far from recovered as number of passengers keeps on dropping  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 2, 2022
End of Document
Ever Given's sister vessel runs aground in US a year after Suez Canal incident
Ever Given's sister vessel runs aground in US a year after Suez Canal 
incident
Cityam.com
March 16, 2022 Wednesday 11:58 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 207 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Container ship Ever Forward has run aground in the US, almost a year after its sister vessel Ever Given 
blocked the Suez Canal for a week. The US Coast Guard said today it was initially notified about the incident on 
Sunday and it has reported the container ship is stuck outside the Chesapeake Bay, Maryland. [...]The post Ever 
Given's sister vessel runs aground in US a year after Suez Canal incident appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Container ship Ever Forward has run aground in the US, almost a year after its sister vessel Ever Given blocked the 
Suez Canal for a week. 
The US Coast Guard said today it was initially notified about the incident on Sunday and it has reported the 
container ship is stuck outside the Chesapeake Bay, Maryland. 
The vessel's owner - Taiwan-based shipping company Evergreen Maritime - said the vessel is stuck outside the 
canal, not blocking traffic in and out of the port of Baltimore or causing fuel leakages. 
"Evergreen is arranging for divers to conduct underwater inspections to confirm any damage to the vessel, and is 
coordinating with all the concerned parties to refloat the ship as soon as possible," the company said in a 
statement.
"The cause of the incident is under investigation by the competent authority."
The Ever Given made the headlines in March of last year when it became wedged in the Suez Canal and blocked 
the waterway for six days, creating immense damage to the global supply chain, as the ship blocked up to $10bn 
worth of cargo a day.
Read more
Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights
Ever Given's sister vessel runs aground in US a year after Suez Canal incident
The post Ever Given's sister vessel runs aground in US a year after Suez Canal incident  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 16, 2022
End of Document
Wealthy nations should pay more for low-emission air travel, Heathrow boss tells Davos elites
Wealthy nations should pay more for low-emission air travel, Heathrow boss 
tells Davos elites
Cityam.com
January 17, 2023 Tuesday 6:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 265 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Wealthy nations should pay more for low-emission air travel, Heathrow’s boss John Holland-Kaye told 
business and political leaders gathered in Davos today. “The wealthy people in this room and the wealthy nations 
should be funding the energy transition in aviation,” Holland-Kaye said, speaking at an event on the future of travel 
at the World Economic [...]The post Wealthy nations should pay more for low-emission air travel, Heathrow boss 
tells Davos elites appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Wealthy nations should pay more for low-emission air travel, Heathrow’s boss John Holland-Kaye told business and 
political leaders gathered in Davos today. 
“The wealthy people in this room and the wealthy nations should be funding the energy transition in aviation,” 
Holland-Kaye said, speaking at an event on the future of travel at the World Economic Forum’s annual conference.
According to the chief executive, companies, as well as passengers, should pay more to use sustainable aviation 
fuels (SAFs) on their flights. 
A by-product of solid waste of food scraps, SAFs  reduce emissions by up to 80 per cent. 
The aviation industry is leaning towards SAFs as the main tool to reach net-zero by 2050, as the adoption of other 
green alternatives such as hydrogen or electric planes is still several decades away. 
“We need to be paying the premium for sustainable aviation fuel to get the cost of it down so that developing 
countries don’t have to pay for the energy transition,” Holland-Kaye added.
Holland-Kaye , however, rejected suggestions that air travel should be cut down if the industry wants to achieve its 
environmental targets. 
“We’re here in person because we were able to travel and we all get some benefit out of being here,” he concluded. 
“So the answer is not to stop travelling but to change the energy we use on the planes that get us here.”
Wealthy nations should pay more for low-emission air travel, Heathrow boss tells Davos elites
Read more
Plane not train: Cornwall set for further tourist spike as Ryanair launches London-Newquay route
The post Wealthy nations should pay more for low-emission air travel, Heathrow boss tells Davos elites  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 17, 2023
End of Document
Gatwick crowned UK’s worst airport, as 3.2 per cent of flights axed
Gatwick crowned UK’s worst airport, as 3.2 per cent of flights axed
Cityam.com
July 13, 2022 Wednesday 4:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 376 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Gatwick was crowned the UK’s worst airport for cancellations.  Flights from the south London hub are 10 
times more likely to be axed compared with Stansted, according to data shared with Sky News by intelligence 
company OAG.  Figures revealed that Gatwick’s cancellations were 3.2 per cent of total flights in 2022, compared 
with Heathrow – [...]The post Gatwick crowned UK’s worst airport, as 3.2 per cent of flights axed appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Gatwick was crowned the UK’s worst airport for cancellations. 
Flights from the south London hub are 10 times more likely to be axed compared with Stansted, according to data 
shared with Sky News by intelligence company OAG. 
Figures revealed that Gatwick’s cancellations were 3.2 per cent of total flights in 2022, compared with Heathrow – 
2.3 per cent – Luton – 1.9 per cent and Stansted – 0.3 per cent. 
Commenting on the figures, a Gatwick spokesperson said the hub regretted “any cancellations and disruption to 
passengers,” adding it would gradually increase capacity from 825 daily flights to 850 in August. 
“By carefully controlling and gradually increasing the maximum number of flights over time – until the end of August 
– the airport aims to help both its airlines and their ground handling companies improve the service they provide by 
reducing the number of flights they need to manage,” they said. 
“In particular, this will benefit ground handling companies, who are employed by the airlines and are responsible for 
managing check in areas, turning aircraft round on the airfield ready for departure, and loading and delivering 
baggage back to passengers.” 
In terms of airlines, BA was considered the worst, while Ryanair came in first as it had only 0.3 per cent of its 
services cancelled since the beginning of the year. 
Gatwick crowned UK’s worst airport, as 3.2 per cent of flights axed
The data came a day after Heathrow asked airlines to stop selling tickets for the summer period as it was capping 
the daily passenger numbers to 100,000, City A.M. reported. 
The cap, which is set to remain in place until 11 September, was slammed by IATA director general Willie Walsh as 
“ridiculous.”
“Heathrow is trying to maximise the profitability that they get from the airport at the expense of airlines,” Walsh, a 
former boss of BA’s owner IAG – told Reuters yesterday.
The comments reignited a long-standing feud between the west-London hub and airlines over airport fees. 
Heathrow’s chief executive John-Holland Kaye dismissed Walsh’s insinuations as “ill-informed comments from 
retired airline bosses.”
Read more
Network Rail deems agency workers’ proposal will have ‘limited if no effect’ on strikes short term
The post Gatwick crowned UK’s worst airport, as 3.2 per cent of flights axed  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 13, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair to sue Government over travel rules as ministers mull exemptions
Ryanair to sue Government over travel rules as ministers mull exemptions
Cityam.com
June 17, 2021 Thursday 9:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 445 words
Byline: Josh Martin
Highlight: Ryanair to sue Government over traffic light rules as ministers mull exemptions for vaccinated BritsThe 
post Ryanair to sue Government over traffic light rules as ministers mull exemptions for vaccinated Brits appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair and the owner of Stansted airport will take the UK Government to court over the legality of its traffic light 
travel restrictions which have decimated the industry.
In court documents filed today the parties challenge "the Government's lack of transparency, particularly around the 
lack of clear reasoning given for moving Portugal from the green list to the amber list and its decision not to move 
any amber list countries to the green list".
It came as the government made noises about relaxing quarantine rules for vaccinated Brits returning from abroad, 
which boosted airline stocks such as British Airways owner IAG, Easyjet and Tui.
The BA owner is up 3.3 per cent. Easyjet shares are up 3.8 per cent, while Ryanair is 3.1 per cent higher and Tui 
3.6 per cent this afternoon.
Although only Ryanair and Manchester Airports Group (MAG) are named parties, a number of airline partners are 
supporting the challenge.
The aviation businesses want more transperancy on the data which determines which destinations are deemed 
safe and which force travellers to self-isolate or quarantine.
The traffic light travel restrictions, which came into force in May, have but an abrupt halt to summer holidays and 
bookings to usual favourites Spain, France, Greece, Italy and Portugal.
Michael O'Leary revealed to the Telegraph that Ryanair had joined a High Court challenge led by the owner of 
Stansted and Manchester airports.
Ryanair to sue Government over travel rules as ministers mull exemptions
"[We are] trying to force the Government to at least either a) be more transparent [over the traffic light system], b) 
publish what exactly the thresholds are at which international travel ... will be allowed to restart. Or c) get some 
injunctive relief against the Government generally on the back of vaccines that says the longer lockdown is 
restricting people's freedom of movement, he explained.
However, this morning the UK Government threw the industry a bone as it indicated that fully vaccinated 
passengers may be exempt from some of the restrictions on travellers returning to the UK.
Fully vaccinated Brits could be exempt from self-isolation or quarantine if coming back from EU destinations such 
as Spain and Greece and even the US.
Jesse Norman, a Treasury minister, said the government was "certainly looking at all the options here".
He told Sky News: "We don't want to get left behind by countries which may be adopting a two jabs approach if it 
can be done safely and if it can be done carefully and securely."
The next planned update to the traffic light list of destinations in due at the end of June.
The post Ryanair to sue Government over traffic light rules as ministers mull exemptions for vaccinated Brits  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 17, 2021
End of Document
Customer service provider Journeycall wins £3.8m contract with Network Rail
Customer service provider Journeycall wins £3.8m contract with Network 
Rail
Cityam.com
February 24, 2022 Thursday 1:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 237 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Customer service firm Journeycall won today a £3.8m contract with Network Rail to run the body's 
contact centre and help desk service. Under the three-year deal, Journeycall will handle all enquiries from the four 
components of Network Rail's contact centre - including the emergency helpline, the central switchboard, the 
commercial property help desk and out-of-hours [...]The post Customer service provider Journeycall wins £3.8m 
contract with Network Rail appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Customer service firm Journeycall won today a £3.8m contract with Network Rail to run the body's contact centre 
and help desk service.
Under the three-year deal, Journeycall will handle all enquiries from the four components of Network Rail's contact 
centre - including the emergency helpline, the central switchboard, the commercial property help desk and out-of-
hours media services.
"This is significant contract win for us, and one that we're incredibly proud to be working on," said Theresa Slevin, 
chief executive of Journeycall's parent company ESP Group. "It is an exciting time for the business as the Network 
Rail national contact centre is enabling us to expand south of the border into Hull and increase our service 
offerings."
To meet the 6,000 weekly requests, some of Journeycall's staff - who provide customer support also to Transport 
for London and West Midlands Train - will be transferred from the Scottish town of Arbroath to Hull.
"Having visited their Arbroath operation and spent time with the leadership team we are optimistic that the service 
we provide to our customers will be even better than ever before," added Sarah Sanders, Network Rail's head of 
contact and community engagement.
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air halt all operations as EU warns airlines to avoid flying near Ukraine border
Customer service provider Journeycall wins £3.8m contract with Network Rail
The post Customer service provider Journeycall wins £3.8m contract with Network Rail  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2022
End of Document
Wizz Air crowned worst airline for flight delays
Wizz Air crowned worst airline for flight delays
Cityam.com
August 29, 2022 Monday 11:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 310 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Wizz Air was crowned the UK’s worst airline for flight delays in 2021, according to data from the Civil 
Aviation Authority analysed by the PA news agency. Figures showed that Wizz Air – which operates from 10 British 
airports, including Luton and Gatwick – ran on average 14 minutes behind schedule. Wizz Air was followed [...]The 
post Wizz Air crowned worst airline for flight delays appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air was crowned the UK’s worst airline for flight delays in 2021, according to data from the Civil Aviation 
Authority analysed by the PA news agency. 
Figures showed that Wizz Air – which operates from 10 British airports, including Luton and Gatwick – ran on 
average 14 minutes behind schedule. 
Wizz Air was followed by Tui’s average delay of 13 minutes and British Airways’ (BA) 12 minutes. 
Low-cost titans such as Easyjet and Ryanair performed better as Easyjet ranked second best, with a hold-up of four 
minutes, while Ryanair came in third. 
City A.M. has approached the airlines for comment.
“While these findings are worrying, the reality has actually been far worse for many travellers this summer,” 
commented Guy Hobbs, editor of consumer champion Which? Travel.
“Holidaymakers have faced a barrage of disruption over the last few months, and these latest figures only serve to 
underline the need for urgent reform of the travel industry.
Following the reopening of borders, the aviation industry – especially in the UK – has been plagued by a raft of 
delays and cancellations.
Due to a combination of ramped up demand and significant labour shortages, Britons have faced flight disruption 
during the busy holiday season. 
Wizz Air crowned worst airline for flight delays
To guarantee smoother operations, carriers such as BA and Easyjet were forced to axe thousands of flights, while 
Wizz posted a quarterly loss of €285m.
The UK flag carrier made the headlines last week when it emerged it had made the highest number of cuts for the 
Summer Bank Holiday, as it axed 380 flights since early July.
BA, which had cut 20 per cent of its summer schedule, was compelled to remove 10,000 flights from its winter 
calendar due to Heathrow’s extension of the passenger cap.
Read more
Bank Holiday: Around 900 flights cut since July
The post Wizz Air crowned worst airline for flight delays  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 29, 2022
End of Document
UK tells airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace over 'hijacking'
UK tells airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace over 'hijacking'
Cityam.com
May 24, 2021 Monday 6:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 926 words
Byline: Angharad Carrick
Highlight: The UK has joined a number of other countries in instructing airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace after a 
commercial flightThe post UK tells airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace and suspends state carrier's license over 
'hijacking' appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK has joined a number of other countries in instructing airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace after a 
commercial flight was intercepted by a fighter jet and diverted to the country to arrest a journalist.
Transport secretary Grant Shapps tweeted that he had instructed the UK's Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) to ask 
planes to steer clear.
He added that he had also suspended Belarusian carrier Belavia's operating license.
The UK has also summoned the eastern European nation's ambassador to explain the incident amid a tide of 
outrage over the "hijacking".
"We have summoned the Belarusian ambassador, the minister for the European neighbourhood is conveying our 
condemnation of these acts as we speak," foreign secretary Dominic Raab told parliament. 
The Ryanair plane, which was bound for Lithuania, was forced to land in Minsk on Sunday after Belarus claimed a 
bomb threat to the aircraft. 
                     Following the forced diversion of a @Ryanair  aircraft to Minsk yesterday, I've instructed @UK_CAA  
to request airlines avoid Belarusian airspace in order to keep passengers safe. I have also suspended Belavia's 
operating permit. Rt Hon Grant Shapps MP (@grantshapps) May 24, 2021                      Belarusian journalist and 
activist Roman Protasevich, a former editor of the Telegram channel Nexta and Nexta Live, was then arrested. 
Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary called the geopolitical turmoil thaat played out on his airline a "state-sponsored 
hijacking","This was a case of state-sponsored hijacking ... state-sponsored piracy," O'Leary told Irish Newstalk 
radio."It appears the intent of the authorities was to remove a journalist and his travelling companion ... we believe 
there were some KGB agents offloaded at the airport as well," he said.Belarus state media claimed President 
UK tells airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace over 'hijacking'
Alexander Lukashenko had personally given the order following the false bomb threat. Since winning a disputed 
election last summer, Lukashenko has cracked down on dissenting voices.Foreign affairs select committee chair 
Tom Tugendhat went further, asking the government to call for a suspension of energy pipelines to the country."Will 
he also go one step further and will he call for a suspension of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and the Yamal energy 
pipeline that flows through Belarus which is where the money comes from that supports this tyrannous regime?", he 
asked.European leaders agree to impose further sanctionsThe move has drawn widespread condemnation across 
Europe with calls for an international investigation. EU leaders this evening agreed to impose new sanctions on 
Belarus, including economic punishments, in response to the action.They demanded the immediate release of 
dissident Protasevich and girlfriend Sofia Sapega, as well as an investigation into the "hijacking"."In carrying out 
this coercive act, the Belarusian authorities have jeopardised the safety of passengers and crew," the EU's foreign 
policy chief Josep Borrell said in a statement this morning. "An international investigation into this incident must be 
carried out to ascertain any breach of international aviation rules."Latvia and Lithuania said the airspace over 
Belarus should be considered unsafe and Latvia's foreign minister Edgars Rinkevics has said it should be closed to 
all international flights. The outrageous and illegal behaviour of the regime in Belarus will have 
consequences.Those responsible for the #Ryanair  hijacking must be sanctioned. Journalist Roman Protasevich 
must be released immediately.EUCO will discuss tomorrow action to take.&mdash; Ursula von der Leyen 
(@vonderleyen) May 23, 2021
Simon Coveney, foreign minister of Ireland, where Ryanair is based, said on Twitter: "EU inaction or indecision will 
be taken as weakness by Belarus."
In a statement, the airline said: "Ryanair condemns the unlawful actions of Belarusian authorities who diverted 
Ryanair's flight FR4978 to Minsk yesterday, which was an act of aviation piracy."
It added that the matter was now being dealt with by the EU and NATO, and it could not comment further for 
security issues.
                     UK and US leaders weigh in                   
UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab said he was "alarmed" by the reports: "We are coordinating with our allies. This 
outlandish action by Lukashenko will have serious implications," he tweeted last night. 
The head of the foreign affairs committee Tom Tugendhat echoed this sentiment, calling it an action of "air piracy" 
and "kidnapping". 
The US also expressed outrage at the detainment of Protasevich. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the 
Biden administration was "co-ordinating with our partners on the next steps" after the "shocking act". 
The US "strongly condemns the forced diversion of a flight between two EU member states and the subsequent 
removal and arrest of journalist Raman Pratasevich in Minsk. We demand his immediate release," he said. 
"This shocking act perpetrated by the Lukashenka regime endangered the lives of more than 120 passengers, 
including US citizens," he added. "Initial reports suggesting the involvement of the Belarusian security services and 
the use of Belarusian military aircraft to escort the plane are deeply concerning and require full investigation". 
The US and EU, along with Britain and Canada, have already imposed asset freezes and travel bans on almost 90 
Belarusian officials, including Lukashenko, following the August election. 
The post UK tells airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace and suspends state carrier's license over 'hijacking'  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 24, 2021
UK tells airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace over 'hijacking'
End of Document
Toyota outsells rival VW by over 21 per cent as world’s largest car maker delivers nearly 10.5 million vehicles in 
2022
Toyota outsells rival VW by over 21 per cent as world’s largest car maker 
delivers nearly 10.5 million vehicles in 2022
Cityam.com
January 30, 2023 Monday 2:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 335 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Toyota sells more cars than any other manufacturer world’s largest car seller for the third consecutive 
year, delivering just under 10.5 million vehicles in the last 12 months. Toyota’s sales were 21 per cent higher than 
Volkswagen’s (VW) 8.3 million sales – which were seven per cent down on last year’s levels and the lowest [...]The 
post Toyota outsells rival VW by over 21 per cent as world’s largest car maker delivers nearly 10.5 million vehicles 
in 2022 appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Toyota sells more cars than any other manufacturer world’s largest car seller for the third consecutive year, 
delivering just under 10.5 million vehicles in the last 12 months. 
Toyota’s sales were 21 per cent higher than Volkswagen’s (VW) 8.3 million sales – which were seven per cent 
down on last year’s levels and the lowest since 2011 – and 34 per cent above Hyundai-Kia’s 6.9 million cars sold.
The Japanese firm sold 9,566,961 Toyota and Lexus models, 766,091 Daihatsu microcars and 149,972 Hino 
trucks, according to Autocar.
Toyota said sales were almost at the same level as last year, “despite the impact of production constraints caused 
by the spread of Covid” such as higher energy and raw material costs as well as a shortage of semiconductors. 
Global production was up 5.3 per cent due to increased capacity and optimisation at Toyota’s North American and 
Asian factories. 
“We will continue to carefully monitor the parts supply situation and minimise sudden decreases in production as 
much as possible while making every effort to deliver as many vehicles to our customers at the earliest date,” the 
car maker said in a statement earlier today.
Toyota made the headlines late last week when its chief executive Akio Toyoda – grandchild of Toyota’s founder 
Kiichiro Toyoda – was appointed chairman following Takeshi Uchiyamada’s resignation. 
Toyota outsells rival VW by over 21 per cent as world’s largest car maker delivers nearly 10.5 million vehicles in 
2022
At the helm of the company’s board since 2013, Uchiyamada stepped down amid concerns that the company’s 
transition to net-zero was taking too long.
The car maker launched in early December a new strategy to achieve carbon neutrality in Europe by 2040. 
Renamed ‘the power of and’ , the strategy will continue to produce hybrids while ramping up its electric vehicle (EV) 
production.
Read more
Ryanair’s profits skyrocket to eye-watering £184.9m as low-cost airline cashes in on strong dollar and Asian tourists
The post Toyota outsells rival VW by over 21 per cent as world’s largest car maker delivers nearly 10.5 million 
vehicles in 2022  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 30, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air 's load factor increases despite Ukraine conflict
Wizz Air's load factor increases despite Ukraine conflict
Cityam.com
March 2, 2022 Wednesday 12:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 253 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Low cost airline Wizz Air is on track to get back to pre-Covid levels, as the Ukrainian conflict has so far 
impacted the carrier marginally. In February, Wizz Air carried 1.9 million passengers at a load factor of 91 per cent - 
a 258 per cent increase on February 2021. Even though it was forced [...]The post Wizz Air's load factor increases 
despite Ukraine conflict appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Low cost airline Wizz Air is on track to get back to pre-Covid levels, as the Ukrainian conflict has so far impacted 
the carrier marginally.
In February, Wizz Air carried 1.9 million passengers at a load factor of 91 per cent - a 258 per cent increase on 
February 2021. 
Even though it was forced to cancel all operations following the closure of both the EU and Russia's airspace, the 
airline reported 2 per cent less flights compared with what was originally scheduled. March flights are expected to 
be 7 per cent less because of the conflict. 
"With the closure of Ukrainian, Moldovan and Russian airspace, the Company has suspended all flights to and from 
Ukraine and Russia while operating Moldova flights out of Iasi, Romania," the company said in a statement. "We 
will continue to review the suspensions as the situation unfolds."
Wizz added that its operating loss for the year will remain consistent with previous guidance, as the situation's 
impact was mitigated by improving the post-Covid trading environment.
"We continue to work through the operational challenges arising from the crisis in Ukraine and we are redistributing 
capacity to routes and bases where we can drive demand in line with our proven ULCC model," commented the 
airline's chief executive Jozsef Varadi. 
Following a few negative days, Wizz Air's shares today went up 2.62 per cent.
Read more
Wizz Air 's load factor increases despite Ukraine conflict
"We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss
The post Wizz Air's load factor increases despite Ukraine conflict  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 3, 2022
End of Document
Travel disruption gives easyJet £130m loss but flights filling up for next quarter
Travel disruption gives easyJet £130m loss but flights filling up for next 
quarter
Cityam.com
July 26, 2022 Tuesday 6:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 430 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight: Travel disruption due to short-staffing led to easyJet suffering a £130m loss in the three months ending 
in June.  The low-cost airline had a pre-tax loss of £114m due to the impact of cancellations, but its earnings before 
interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and restructuring or rent costs (EBITDAR) was a profit of more than 
£100m. [...]The post Travel disruption gives easyJet £130m loss but flights filling up for next quarter appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Travel disruption due to short-staffing led to easyJet suffering a £130m loss in the three months ending in June. 
The low-cost airline had a pre-tax loss of £114m due to the impact of cancellations, but its earnings before interest, 
taxes, depreciation, amortization, and restructuring or rent costs (EBITDAR) was a profit of more than £100m. This 
was down from £313m in 2019, pre-Covid. 
More than 22m passengers used the airline in the third quarter of 2022, representing a seven times increase on 
than the previous year, and 87 per cent on 2019. This was up from just under 3,000 the previous year. 
Read more
Ryanair exec blames airports for travel chaos, arguing ‘they had one job to do’
In wake of the pandemic, many holidaymakers have headed to the continent for a break, but the furlough scheme 
during the pandemic meant many airline and airport workers were let go, and lots did not return; leading to severe 
staff shortages.
The result has been major travel disruption, long queues at airports, cancelled flights and frustrated holiday makers. 
easyJet said the “unprecedented ramp up across the aviation industry, coupled with a tight labour market, has 
resulted in widespread operational challenges.”
Travel disruption gives easyJet £130m loss but flights filling up for next quarter
It said this led to soaring levels of cancellations, while it operated 95 per cent of planned flights in the last three 
months . Despite a heavy loss in the last three months, the airline said it had reduced capacity and built up its ability 
to run all planned flights, as it looks to be fully operational this summer. 
It also said its yield per passenger remained at £22, which outperformed pre pandemic levels, while its holidays 
generated £16m profit, carrying 0.4m customers. 
Read more
BA staff call off strike for good following 13 per cent pay rise
Looking ahead to Q4, the outlook is strong, with 71 per cent of flights booked already and ticket yield 13 per cent 
above 2019. 
“Delivering for customers this summer remains our highest priority. During the quarter we carried seven times more 
customers than the same time last year and operated 95 per cent of our schedule. We have taken action to build 
the additional resilience needed this summer and the operation has now normalised”, said Johan Lundgren, 
easyJet chief executive:
“Despite the loss this quarter due to the short-term disruption issues, the return to flying at scale has demonstrated 
that the strategic initiatives launched during the pandemic are delivering now and with more to come. “
The post Travel disruption gives easyJet £130m loss but flights filling up for next quarter  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair posts 273m net loss as restrictions continue to 'wreak havoc'
Ryanair posts 273m net loss as restrictions continue to 'wreak havoc'
Cityam.com
July 26, 2021 Monday 7:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 454 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Ryanair has posted a net loss of 273m (£233m) as pandemic travel restrictions continue to "wreak 
havoc" on the airlineThe post Ryanair posts 273m net loss as restrictions continue to 'wreak havoc' appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has posted a net loss of 273m (£233m) as pandemic travel restrictions continue to "wreak havoc" on the 
airline industry.
Despite the loss, the Irish airline took home some 371m in the weeks to 30 June, up from 125m in the same period 
last year.
Shares were up 4.1 per cent in its afternoon trading, at around 16.3p per share following the announcement.
"Covid-19 continued to wreak havoc on our business during Q1 with most Easter flights cancelled and a slower 
than expected easing of EU government travel restrictions into May and June," chief executive Michael O'Leary 
said.
"Significant uncertainty around travel green lists (particularly in the UK) and extreme government caution in Ireland 
meant that Q1 bookings were close in and at low fares."
                     Signs of recovery                   
Air traffic in its first-quarter rebounded from 0.5m to 8.1m as capacity recovered in May and June, Ryanair reported.
Airlines have been bolstering their routes and destinations ahead of a post-pandemic travel boom, which has seen 
Ryanair introduce 379 new routes and 10 new bases.
"The 1 July rollout of EU Digital Covid Certificates and the scrapping of quarantine for vaccinated arrivals to the UK 
from mid-July has seen a surge in bookings over recent weeks," the airline boss said, adding that pricing remains 
below pre-pandemic levels.
Ryanair posts 273m net loss as restrictions continue to 'wreak havoc'
O'Leary said that the airline has forecast traffic to lift from over 5m to a near 9m in July and more than 10m in 
August - providing there are no "further Covid setbacks in Europe".
For the full year, Europe's largest low-cost carrier said it expected to fly between 90 and 100m passengers, up from 
an earlier forecast of 80-100m.
Richard Flood, investment manager at Brewin Dolphin, said: "Ryanair's first quarter update confirms what we 
already knew: the summer of 2021 has got off to a slower start than hoped. 
"Ryanair, though, remains in rude health - both financially and operationally - and is poised like a stretched elastic 
band to benefit from the pent-up demand for travel and resume normal operations as soon as conditions allow."
Although activity is on the uplift, sudden restrictions could quickly see the gains the airline has secured in recent 
weeks evaporate, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown Laura Hoy explained.
"Ryanair's results painted a rosy picture of the future for European air travel as vaccination passports open the door 
to a summer travel season. 
"Unfortunately, Ryanair is still at the mercy of the virus and, although a recovery is materialising, the group noted 
that travel within Europe will be depressed for the foreseeable future."
The post Ryanair posts 273m net loss as restrictions continue to 'wreak havoc'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2021
End of Document
Government traffic light travel policy attacked from all sides
Government traffic light travel policy attacked from all sides
Cityam.com
June 16, 2021 Wednesday 1:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 490 words
Byline: Stefan Boscia
Highlight: Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has stepped up his attacks on the government's traffic light system, 
calling for more stringentThe post Government traffic light travel policy attacked from all sides appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has stepped up his attacks on the government's traffic light system, calling for more 
stringent travel restrictions and an end to the amber list.
The government is also facing attacks on its border policy from right-wingers and moderates alike in the Tory party 
who want to see more lax travel restrictions.
Starmer called on Boris Johnson at Prime Minister's Questions (PMQs) to "do everything possible to save the 
British summer" by "securing the border", after the Delta variant came into the UK while India was not on the red 
list.
There are only a handful of countries on the green list, which allows people to come into the country without 
quarantining. 
The vast majority of countries are on the amber list, which requires people to isolate for 10 days in their homes on 
arrival in the UK, however the government is advising people not to visit these destinations.
"He's persisting with a traffic light system that doesn't work and won't stop other variants coming in," Starmer said.
"Drop the traffic light system, get rid of the amber list, secure the border and do everything possible to save the 
British summer."
The Prime Minister said at PMQs that the UK has some of the toughest border restrictions in the world.
Referring to Starmer, Johnson added "if he is now saying he wants to stop all travel to and from this country, it is 
yet another flip-flop from the Labour leader". 
Government traffic light travel policy attacked from all sides
It comes as Ryanair today slammed Johnson's "mismanagement of the Covid pandemic, and the reopening of the 
UK economy", while calling for vaccinated Britons to be able to travel freely to the EU.
Tory MPs like Mark Harper and former Prime Minister Theresa May have also called for vaccinated Britons to be 
able to travel without quarantining on their return. 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said: "UK tourism and aviation needs a pragmatic travel policy, which 
permits vaccinated UK and EU citizens to travel between the UK and the EU without the need for quarantine or 
negative PCR tests. 
"This will at least allow the UK tourism industry to plan for what is left of the summer season and get hundreds of 
thousands of people back to work."
By contrast, the EU today voted to add a raft of new countries to its "white list", which means that travellers from 
those countries can move around the bloc free from all restrictions, regardless of their vaccination status.
Most significantly, the US was added to the list, along with Albania, Lebanon, North Macedonia, Serbia and Taiwan. 
They join Australia, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, Rwanda, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand and China on the list, 
which is updated every two weeks.
However, until the US drops reciprocal restrictions against EU countries, a full return of transatlantic travel will not 
come about.
The UK's traffic light system will be next updated on 28 June.
The post Government traffic light travel policy attacked from all sides  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 16, 2021
End of Document
So you want to go to… Six Nations Super Saturday? Here’s how
So you want to go to… Six Nations Super Saturday? Here’s how
Cityam.com
March 9, 2023 Thursday 10:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 579 words
Byline: Matt Hardy
Highlight: This time next week millions of Brits will be preparing to tune in to Super Saturday, the final round of Six 
Nations action involving three games back-to-back. This year’s finale sees Scotland host Italy before Wales travel 
to France, with Ireland’s match against England on St Patrick’s weekend closing the show.  Here’s how to be 
[...]The post So you want to go to… Six Nations Super Saturday? Here’s how appeared first on CityAM.
Body
This time next week millions of Brits will be preparing to tune in to Super Saturday, the final round of Six Nations 
action involving three games back-to-back.
This year’s finale sees Scotland host Italy before Wales travel to France, with Ireland’s match against England on St 
Patrick’s weekend closing the show. 
Here’s how to be there, based on two people travelling on Friday and returning to London on Sunday.
Read more
Exodus Chiefs: How Exeter, a modern dynasty of English rugby, lost its aura
                     Scotland vs Italy                   
EasyJet can take you from Stansted to Edinburgh for £121 per person, or from Luton for £101 – the cheapest 
option at the time of writing. A train will take nearly five hours and cost £155 in economy or over £300 in first class. 
No question, really, is there?
Britannia Edinburgh Hotel is the most cost effective stay at £228 (£57 per person per night) while Booking.com’s top 
reviewed offering is BrewDog’s DogHouse Edinburgh – that’ll set you back £710 for the weekend.
The match itself is currently a sell-out given how well Scotland are playing, but official resale sites have a handful of 
tickets remaining at face value (around £65 mark above). Murrayfield is still taking hospitality enquiries but you’ll 
need to be quick to ensure you can get onto the list – prices aren’t available until an enquiry is made. 
So you want to go to… Six Nations Super Saturday? Here’s how
                     France vs Wales                   
Flying from Luton to Charles de Gaulle via EasyJet and returning from Paris Orly to Gatwick on Vueling costs just 
£111, while a return to Orly from Gatwick with Vueling is £191. The Eurostar will set you back nearly £190 in 
economy and £275 in business premier.
The Auberge de Jeunesse HI Paris Le d’Artagnan is the cheapest place to be in the French capital at £139. The 
Hotel des Arts Montmartre is the best rated on Booking.com  at £559, or £139 per person per night. Paris isn’t 
exactly short of hotels, however.
Like Murrayfield, the Stade de France is already packed to the rafters for Super Saturday with only official resale 
sites likely to have tickets available next week. It is still, however, offering hospitality for the match. While the VIP 
cocktail lounge is sold out, VIP seated lounges are available for £711 per person, the VIP Club Lounge can be 
accessed for £800 and private boxes are available from about £10,500.
                     Ireland vs England                   
A horribly early flight from Stansted with Ryanair paired with an awfully late return will set you back just £77, with 
many offers below the £100 mark. A more leisurely Friday evening flight combined with the same 10pm return is 
just £70. If you’re feeling ambitious and want to drive, a ferry crossing from Holyhead in north Wales to Dublin will 
set you back £286.
Dublin is famously overpriced on a Six Nations  weekend. The Green in Saint Stephen’s Green is the cheapest 
offering at £802, while the highest rated hotel on Booking.com is the Herbert Park Hotel and Park Residence which 
will set you back £1,189. 
Like the other two, normal tickets for this potential title decider are currently unavailable. That said, there are likely 
to be some on resale from Monday. The Aviva Stadium’s hospitality offering is also full.
So Super Saturday is upon us soon, and three great cities are hosting huge rugby clashes. As always, let us know if 
you use our tips and attend.
The post So you want to go to… Six Nations Super Saturday? Here’s how  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 9, 2023
End of Document
Heathrow’s passengers soar 170 per cent in August as six million people jet off
Heathrow’s passengers soar 170 per cent in August as six million people jet 
off
Cityam.com
September 12, 2022 Monday 7:08 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 235 words
Byline: Leah Montebello
Highlight: Heathrow has said total terminal passengers was up 170.6 per cent to over six million in August.The 
post Heathrow’s passengers soar 170 per cent in August as six million people jet off appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Heathrow said total terminal passengers was up 170.6 per cent to over six million in August as holidaygoers make 
their way back abroad.
The international airport handled 38.4m passengers between January and August period – four times more than the 
same period last year.
The busiest routes were to Europe and North America, followed by the Middle East and Asia-Pacific.
It is understood that Heathrow has chosen not to put out a usual press release and commentary today in a mark of 
respect for the Queen’s passing.
Heathrow’s initial 100,000 daily passengers’ cap was supposed to stay in place until 11 September, but the firm 
said it would be extending this until the end of October.
Budget airline Ryanair said it was adding one million extra seats to its winter schedule while the likes of British 
Airways (BA) continue to axe flights.
The airline now expects to carry 166.5 million passengers by the end of the year – 1.5 million more than initially 
predicted.
The low-cost carrier  said it was increasing its capacity to and from 20 UK airports in response to BA’s decision to 
cancel 10,000 flights due to staff shortages and Heathrow’s decision to extend passenger cap until the end of 
October. 
Read more
Heathrow’s passengers soar 170 per cent in August as six million people jet off
Queen’s funeral: Travel chiefs warn train network will be ‘extremely busy’ as refunds offered
The post Heathrow’s passengers soar 170 per cent in August as six million people jet off  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 12, 2022
End of Document
Moscow airport furloughs 7,000 people as sanctions continue to bite
Moscow airport furloughs 7,000 people as sanctions continue to bite
Cityam.com
March 21, 2022 Monday 1:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 330 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport has furloughed around 7,000 members of its staff after West's 
sanctions on Moscow following the invasion of Ukraine. The hub - which last year saw 30.9 million passengers pass 
through its gates - furloughed 40 per cent of its staff, cutting pay by a third, Russian media reported. General 
director Mikhail Vasilenko [...]The post Moscow airport furloughs 7,000 people as sanctions continue to bite 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport has furloughed around 7,000 members of its staff after West's sanctions on 
Moscow following the invasion of Ukraine.
The hub - which last year saw 30.9 million passengers pass through its gates - furloughed 40 per cent of its staff, 
cutting pay by a third, Russian media reported. 
General director Mikhail Vasilenko wrote to staff last week to say the decision "was out of the control of the 
employer and employees" but linked to the "critical decrease in passenger traffic" following the closure of Russian 
airspace. The hubs was also forced to close a passenger terminal
Vasilenko's decision not to say until when the scheme will be in place has only heightened speculation that Russia's 
isolation will continue for the foreseeable future, the Telegraph wrote. 
Since the war's outbreak, countries such as the UK, EU and US have imposed sanctions on Moscow's, including 
closing its airspace to Russian owned and registered aircraft, City A.M. reported.
Just last week, transport secretary Grant Shapps reported that an aircraft was grounded on the basis it was linked 
to Russia. 
"Today I have taken rapid action to identify and ground another plane pending enquiries about possible Russian 
links," Shapps said on Saturday via Twitter. 
"We are continuing to take decisive action against Putin and his illegal war in Ukraine."
Moscow airport furloughs 7,000 people as sanctions continue to bite
                     Today I have taken rapid action to identify and ground another plane pending enquiries about possible 
Russian links.We are continuing to take decisive action against Putin and his illegal war in Ukraine. Rt Hon Grant 
Shapps MP (@grantshapps) March 19, 2022
The plane is not the first to have been impounded since the UK Government made it a criminal offence for any 
Russian aircraft to enter Britain's airspace on 8 March.
Read more
Irish transport minister to speak with Ryanair following airfare criticism
The post Moscow airport furloughs 7,000 people as sanctions continue to bite  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 21, 2022
End of Document
Clear skies ahead for Lufthansa, as carrier expects strong demand to stay
Clear skies ahead for Lufthansa, as carrier expects strong demand to stay
Cityam.com
October 27, 2022 Thursday 1:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 262 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Lufthansa anticipates demand to remain strong in the months ahead, with capacity expected at 80 per 
cent of pre-Covid levels in the fourth quarter despite inflationary pressures. According to chief executive Carsten 
Spohr, people will continue to splash cash on tickets after two years of not being allowed to travel due to the Covid 
pandemic. [...]The post Clear skies ahead for Lufthansa, as carrier expects strong demand to stay appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Lufthansa anticipates demand to remain strong in the months ahead, with capacity expected at 80 per cent of pre-
Covid levels in the fourth quarter despite inflationary pressures.
According to chief executive Carsten Spohr, people will continue to splash cash on tickets after two years of not 
being allowed to travel due to the Covid pandemic.
“After all, the desire to travel and thus the demand for air travel continues unabated,” Spohr said today as he 
unveiled the third quarter results.
The chief executive’s remarks have been echoed by the likes of Ryanair’s chief Michael O’Leary , who said people 
will not stop flying altogether.
Lufthansa’s high premium demand from leisure travellers remained “remarkable” in the three months ended 30 
September, as the load factors for business and first class were up on pre-pandemic levels. 
Yields – a metric of profitability – were on average up 23 per cent compared to 2019 levels, while the overall load 
factor was back at pre-pandemic record levels. 
The group’s revenue went up 93 per cent to €10.1bn (£8.7b) as Lufthansa’s adjusted EBIT surged to €1.1bn.
“The Lufthansa Group has economically left the pandemic behind and is looking optimistically into the future,” the 
chief executive added. 
Clear skies ahead for Lufthansa, as carrier expects strong demand to stay
The carrier made the headlines last week when it raised its full-year profit forecast to more than €1bn after 
previously expecting it to be around €500m.
Read more
Boom in UK retail drives Cazoo’s revenue 103 per cent up to £347m
The post Clear skies ahead for Lufthansa, as carrier expects strong demand to stay  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 30, 2022
End of Document
Used car market starts year with a bang as demand fuels record prices
Used car market starts year with a bang as demand fuels record prices
Cityam.com
February 3, 2022 Thursday 9:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 267 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The second-hand automotive market has started 2022 with a bang, as record levels of demand have 
fuelled the skyrocketing of prices. Auto Trader's retail price index has revealed the average price of a used car has 
surged for the 22nd consecutive month, going up to £18,067 - a 31.3 per cent year-on-year increase on a [...]The 
post Used car market starts year with a bang as demand fuels record prices appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The second-hand automotive market has started 2022 with a bang, as record levels of demand have fuelled the 
skyrocketing of prices. 
Auto Trader's retail price index has revealed the average price of a used car has surged for the 22nd consecutive 
month, going up to £18,067 - a 31.3 per cent year-on-year increase on a like-for-like basis. 
Even though semiconductor shortages continue to rampage, demand doesn't seem to ease, as the number of used 
car enquiries has gone up 31 per cent in the last month. 
"The January blues have done little to take the heat out of the used car market, which has started the year in a very 
strong position," said Auto Trader's director of data and insights Richard Walker. "The ongoing squeeze on new and 
used car supply, combined with exceptionally strong consumer demand has ensured that the record price growth 
we saw last year has continued into 2022."
"From what we're tracking there's little evidence to suggest that these very unusual market dynamics will change 
significantly any time soon."
Within a framework that sees 21 per cent of all used vehicles as more expensive of their brand-new equivalent, 
volume brands are actually recording the highest year-on-year increase on vehicles below five years old.
While the average price of a second-hand Aston Martin has gone up 11 per cent, car makers such as Ford, Skoda 
and Suzuki saw their prices fourfold, going up 42, 41 and 39 per cent respectively. 
Read more
Used car market starts year with a bang as demand fuels record prices
Which? slams Ryanair and BA over poor refund policy
The post Used car market starts year with a bang as demand fuels record prices  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 3, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair , BA and Stansted airport in court suing over traffic light system
Ryanair, BA and Stansted airport in court suing over traffic light system
Cityam.com
July 9, 2021 Friday 1:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 415 words
Byline: Josh Martin
Highlight: Ryanair, BA, Easyjet and Stansted owner MAG are in court today suing over traffic light travel 
systemThe post Ryanair, BA, Easyjet and Stansted in court today suing over traffic light travel system appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Airlines including Ryanair, Easyjet and the owner or British Airways launched legal action against the government 
over its travel curbs today.
The group of businesses, which also includes Stansted airport owner MAG is challenging ministers to be more 
transparent over how they decide which destinations are classed under the travel traffic light system.
The litigation, led by Manchester Airports Group (MAG), with backing from the airlines is going ahead despiteplans 
announced by the government yesterday to allow more travel. 
"British consumers need to understand how decisions are made so they can confidently plan their travel, which is 
why we are asking the government to provide the data and advice that is underpinning its decision making," the 
chief executives of the five companies involved said in a statement.
The UK said fully-vaccinated British residents returning from medium-risk countries willno longer have to quarantine 
on arrival home from 19 July, opening up travel for the 65% of adults who have had two jabs and those aged under 
18.
On top of that, transport secretary Grant Shapps today said non-UK residents who are fully vaccinated will be 
allowed into the UK without self-isolating "in the coming weeks".
But travel companies say it is still not clear how the government makes decisions about rating destinations under its 
traffic light system where low risk is green, medium risk is amber and high risk is red.
Despite the coming rule change, the complainants want the legal action to force a wider re-opening of travel.
Ryanair , BA and Stansted airport in court suing over traffic light system
There are just a handful of green destinations, many of them smaller islands. All the big destinations like mainland 
Spain, Greece, France and the US are amber.
That means that even after 19 July, travel will remain restricted and demand dampened, because those who have 
not had two vaccine doses, as well as non-UK residents wanting to come to Britain will face quarantine.
Sixteen months of travel restrictions have put all airlines and airports under severe financial strain, and they say a 
fuller re-opening is required to help their recovery and sustain millions of jobs.
Their case against the transport minister Shapps was heard at London's High Court today.
The Department for Transport spokesperson said its traffic light system cautiously managed the risk of new 
variants, adding: "We cannot comment on legal proceedings."
The post Ryanair, BA, Easyjet and Stansted in court today suing over traffic light travel system  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 9, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair calls on EU to ignore ghost flights claims
Ryanair calls on EU to ignore ghost flights claims
Cityam.com
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 4:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 519 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair has called on the European Commission (EC) to ignore Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' claim, 
accusing the German carrier of "blocking their slots" to protect themselves from competition with low-cost airlines. 
"The solution to Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' problem is a simple one - just sell these seats to consumers," said 
Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary in [...]The post Ryanair calls on EU to ignore ghost flights claims 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has called on the European Commission (EC) to ignore Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' claim, accusing the 
German carrier of "blocking their slots" to protect themselves from competition with low-cost airlines.
"The solution to Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' problem is a simple one - just sell these seats to consumers," said 
Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary in a statement. "Lufthansa loves crying crocodile tears about the 
environment when doing everything possible to protect its slots.
"If Lufthansa doesn't want to operate "ghost flights" to protect its slots, then simply sell these seats at low fares, and 
help accelerate the recovery of short and long haul air travel to and from Europe."
O'Leary's comments came a few weeks after Lufthansa's boss Carsten Spohr told German newspaper Frankfurter 
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung the airline was forced to operate around 18,000 flights just to retain their airport slots 
under EU rules. 
"Because of the reduced demand in January, we even would have canceled considerably more flights. But in winter 
we will have to carry out 18,000 extra, unnecessary flights, just to secure our take-off and landing rights," he said.
Before the pandemic, airlines needed to use at least 80 per cent of their airport slots to retain them the next year 
but as a result of Covid and the drop in passenger the European Commission decided to ease the rules. During the 
very early stages of Covid, the EC removed the requirement but as the situation improved for the industry, slot 
usage levels were gradually increased. 
Ryanair calls on EU to ignore ghost flights claims
"For this winter season, we reduced slot requirements from 80 to 50 per cent, meaning that currently air companies 
will only have to use 50 per cent of a given slot series to preserve their rights," a spokesperson for the EC told City 
A.M today.
In December, the Commission decided to extend slot relief rules - increasing the percentage to 64 but extending it 
to the whole winter season, from 28 March to 29 October. 
The move was welcomed by the aviation industry. Willie Walsh, former IAG boss and current director general of the 
International Air Transport Association, called the system "the backbone of building global air connectivity". 
"Before COVID-19 [the airport slot system] was serving 4.5 billion passengers across a route network that over 20 
years had doubled while fares had halved in price. This success can be rebuilt if regulators treat the system with 
care." 
Airlines cannot blame the EC for their 'ghost flights', added the spokesperson. 
"The relief has worked very well for almost two years now, providing the necessary support that has prevented 
economically and environmentally harmful flights operating solely for the purpose of maintaining slots," they added.
"It can therefore not be argued that the EU rules oblige the airline to fly. If airlines decide to keep operating empty or 
almost empty flights it is because they have decided so."
Read more
Heathrow Airport calls for Covid-19 testing to end after 600,000 people cancelled flights last month
The post Ryanair calls on EU to ignore ghost flights claims  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Australian Open: What it costs to buy tickets, flights from London, hotel and visa
Australian Open: What it costs to buy tickets, flights from London, hotel and 
visa
Cityam.com
January 14, 2023 Saturday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 567 words
Byline: Matt Hardy
Highlight: So you like two people hitting balls at each other and fancy spending a day in the air to see it happen? 
Here’s how you can get to the Australian Open finals weekend. Visa As Novak Djokovic learned the hard way last 
year, you cannot simply hop on a plane and expect to be welcomed [...]The post Australian Open: What it costs to 
buy tickets, flights from London, hotel and visa appeared first on CityAM.
Body
So you like two people hitting balls at each other and fancy spending a day in the air to see it happen? Here’s how 
you can get to the Australian Open finals weekend.
                                            Visa                                        
As Novak Djokovic learned the hard way last year, you cannot simply hop on a plane and expect to be welcomed 
somewhere else without controversy.
There are no Covid-19 restrictions in Australia at the moment, however, and travel to the country is not dependent 
on vaccination status.
To travel Down Under for the pleasure of tennis you will need a holiday visa. The visas are free and with 
applications decided in a short amount of time.
The Australian government website to find out more.
                                            Flights                                        
We’ve provided you with two travel options to get to the Australian Open : one will see you arrive on Saturday 
morning in time for the women’s final and leave on Monday afternoon following the men’s final, and the other sees 
you arrive in Australia on the Friday and leave straight after the men’s final.
Australian Open: What it costs to buy tickets, flights from London, hotel and visa
For option one: leave at 8:05am from Stansted on Ryanair to Lisbon before enjoying a six-hour layover in the 
Portuguese capital. Thereafter Turkish Airways will take you first to Istanbul, then Melbourne, to see you arrive in 
Australia early on the Saturday morning. The afternoon after the men’s final, you’ll take a flight to Abu Dhabi and 
then Heathrow with Etihad. Option one, in economy, will cost £1,586 per person.
Option two sees you leave Heathrow on Wednesday night for a 13-hour flight with Malaysia Airways to Kuala 
Lumpur. From there you’ll do eight hours to Melbourne with, after a five-hour layover, to land on Friday. You will 
leave Melbourne as the clock passes midnight on Sunday with Qatar Airways. The route is the same in reverse and 
sees you landing at London’s main airport at 3:25pm on Monday. Option two, in economy, will cost £1,761.
                                            Hotels                                        
Hotels in Melbourne are generally available for £230-plus per night on the weekend of the Australian Open. The 
lowest-priced available would cost you around £150 but if you’re flying all the way Down Under, you may as well do 
it in style. A number of four star hotels will set you back over £350 but with that price comes a good location and 
easier access and flexibility surrounding check-in and out.
                                            Tickets                                        
Tickets remain available for the finals weekend in Melbourne. If you want to catch some live music at the Australian 
Open, there are also a number of free tickets for the accompanying festival, but you’ll need to have booked the 
tennis too.
Weekend ground passes can be purchased for a touch over £30 with access being granted to the venue but not the 
arenas.
A ticket, while available on Ticketmaster, can be bought for £182 for the women’s final on 28 January while a ticket 
to the men’s final a day later will set you back at least £538 – according to the ticketing platform’s website. 
So that’s that, your guide to getting to the Australian Open finals weekend. Let us know if you take the plunge Down 
Under.
The post Australian Open: What it costs to buy tickets, flights from London, hotel and visa  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 14, 2023
End of Document
Waze UK: People's driving habits are a moving feast post-Covid
Waze UK: People's driving habits are a moving feast post-Covid
Cityam.com
June 2, 2022 Thursday 10:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 448 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The UK's driving habits have become a "moving feast" post-Covid, said Waze UK's managing director 
Ru Roberts. According to the satellite navigation software, following the easing of restrictions and the UK 
Governmen't strategy for living with Covid, traffic numbers have exceeded pre-pandemic levels. "We're now in 
excess of number of cars on the road," Roberts [...]The post Waze UK: People's driving habits are a moving feast 
post-Covid appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK's driving habits have become a "moving feast" post-Covid, said Waze UK's managing director Ru Roberts. 
According to the satellite navigation software, following the easing of restrictions and the UK Governmen't strategy 
for living with Covid, traffic numbers have exceeded pre-pandemic levels.
"We're now in excess of number of cars on the road," Roberts told City A.M. "Over the last two bank holiday 
weekends, we have had an increase of 47 per cent in driven miles on Waze compared to the pre-Covid levels."
The managing director's comments were corroborated by data recently released by the RAC, which estimated that 
19.5 million travels were planned for the Bank Holiday weekend.
While congestion has mainly converged on the main arteries in and out of London - such as the M25, M4, A303 and 
M5 - hour-long queues have also been reported at major transport hubs such as the port of Dover. 
Last week, hundreds of people going to France for half-term or to see the Champions League final in Paris 
complained about being stuck in bottlenecks due to security delays. 
"This Jubilee weekend will obviously hit London, but it's also the weekend when everyone is returning from half-
term holidays," he added. 
Despite an overall increase in number and length of drives, people are continuously adapting to the wider 
macroeconomic context, from the pandemic's impact on commuting to the current surge in fuel prices.
Waze UK: People's driving habits are a moving feast post-Covid
Roberts explained that commuter drives are still behind 2019 levels, while people drive more for leisure, travel and 
local chores. 
Waze figures reported that Tuesday to Thursday has a higher average in miles driven, as "lots of businesses are 
potentially home working or three days a week in the office and two days at home."
Motorists' habits have also changed significantly following the Ukraine war-induced surge in fuel prices, with petrol 
hitting a new high at 172.73p while diesel surging to 182.59p per litre.
The hike in fuel prices has led to a 26 per cent decrease in traffic, as drivers try to make the most out of their fuel 
tanks, Waze data highlighted.
"It's limiting, people trying to cut down on the amount they're having to spend," the manager explained. "Because 
it's not just fuel, it's all consumer spending."
But for the time being, people will continue to rely on cars as they feel more confident and comfortable compared 
with public transport.
"That may change again but at the moment we've definitely seen the car being the mode of transport that people 
are most confident in," Roberts concluded.
Read more
Send in the army to help airports, says Ryanair boss
The post Waze UK: People's driving habits are a moving feast post-Covid  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 2, 2022
End of Document
Wizz Air smashes passenger records as CEO predicts further summer growth
Wizz Air smashes passenger records as CEO predicts further summer 
growth
Cityam.com
August 3, 2023 Thursday 6:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 535 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Wizz Air said it carried a record at 15.3 million passengers in the three months to 30 June, up 25.5 per 
cent on 2022, as the ultra-low cost airline swung into profit on the back of soaring demand for travel. The historic 
traffic figures helped the carrier report a €79m (£68m) profit, up from a [...]
Body
Wizz Air said it carried a record at 15.3 million passengers in the three months to 30 June, up 25.5 per cent on 
2022, as the ultra-low cost airline swung into profit on the back of soaring demand for travel.
The historic traffic figures helped the carrier report a €79m (£68m) profit, up from a €284.5m (£245m) loss the year 
prior.
EBITDA also swung to the green at €236m (£203.3m) up from a previous loss of €154m (£132.6m) and propped up 
by a 52 per cent jump in revenues to €1.2bn (£1.03bn).
Load factor – which measures the portion of seats an airline has been able to sell – rose from 84.7 per cent to 91 
per cent year-on-year.
József Váradi, Wizz Air’s Chief Executive, said: “Summer is going well operationally and from a revenue 
perspective… The security of our Airbus orderbook and prior operational adjustments helped us deliver a markedly 
improved performance for our customers, our people, and our shareholders.
He added: “We have continued our fleet allocation program and have announced further expansion in Poland, Italy, 
UK, North Macedonia, Georgia and Albania. At Abu Dhabi airport, Wizz Air is already the second largest airline in 
terms of seats. Its fleet is growing to 10 aircraft by the end of this summer.”
Extraordinary travel demand has swept across the aviation sector this summer, with numerous records broken and 
bumper profits for British Airways owner IAG, EasyJet and Ryanair.
Wizz Air smashes passenger records as CEO predicts further summer growth
Wizz Air itself said yesterday it had carried 6 million passengers in July, representing a 26.6 per cent increase year-
on-year. It also announced the confirmation of a 75 Airbus A321neo aircrafts late in the day, as it looks to 
significantly expand its fleet.
Today’s results, however, come after a week of turbulence for the ultra-low cost carrier, which has struggled under 
the weight of repeat scandals and turmoil over the last six months.
Just last week the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) watchdog ordered Wizz Air to review over a years worth of 
compensation claims , many of which appear to have been incorrectly rejected and will now see it subject to 
millions of pounds worth of additional charges.
That had followed a Sunday Times investigation earlier in the year which found that Wizz Air still owed the British 
public nearly £5m in unpaid refunds for compensation claims, with 881 county court judgments  still outstanding.
                     Yesterday, boss Varadi scraped through a shareholder rebellion over plans for him to receive a bonus 
of up to £100 million – should he hit share price targets by 2028.
Ruth Griffin, leisure partner at Gowling WLG, said of today’s results: “The past year has been challenging for the 
aviation sector and Wizz Air has been no exception, but the start of summer has seen the airline reach new heights 
with a significant increase in passenger numbers over June.
She noted: “Demand has been extremely strong since the end of the pandemic but the airline still faces strong 
headwinds with the millions in refunds it needs to pay-out to its passengers as well as the ongoing cost of living 
crisis meaning it has to contend with competitors to offer the best value for money on flights. 
Read more
Wizz Air ordered to review years of falsely rejected compensation claims
Load-Date: August 3, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair loses legal battle against Condor bailout funding
Ryanair loses legal battle against Condor bailout funding
Cityam.com
May 18, 2022 Wednesday 2:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 262 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair has lost its legal battle to have bailout funding provided by the EU to German charter airline 
Condor ruled unlawful. The EU's General Court said today the aid package was legitimate and that Ryanair failed to 
demonstrate the European Commission had mishandled funds when bailing the charter airline out. "The applicant 
did not succeed [...]The post Ryanair loses legal battle against Condor bailout funding appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has lost its legal battle to have bailout funding provided by the EU to German charter airline Condor ruled 
unlawful. 
The EU's General Court said today the aid package was legitimate and that Ryanair failed to demonstrate the 
European Commission had mishandled funds when bailing the charter airline out.
"The applicant did not succeed in rebutting the Commission's findings that Condor's difficulties were the result 
mainly of the Thomas Cook group being placed into liquidation and not of an arbitrary allocation of costs within the 
group," the ruling read.
"The General Court dismisses the action in its entirety."
Condor received in 2020 a 550m bailout package after it filed for insolvency following the collapse of parent 
company Thomas Cook in late 2019. The package was questioned by Ryanair filed a lawsuit and was granted an 
initial win in June 2021.
Over the last few years, the low-cost carrier has filed several lawsuits against the EU state aid as part of Michael 
O'Leary's crusade against unfair competition.
According to Ryanair's chief executive, the EU state aid could damage competition in the European aviation market, 
putting his airline at a disadvantage.
Several airlines - Lufthansa, Air France-KLM and SAS - were dragged into the eye of it.
Ryanair loses legal battle against Condor bailout funding
After an initial streak of victories, Ryanair lost its legal challenge against SAS and Finnair as well as against KLM 
and TAP.
Read more
Ryanair to revert to second-hand market if Boeing doesn't step up, warns O'Leary
The post Ryanair loses legal battle against Condor bailout funding  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 18, 2022
End of Document
UK to level up local transport with £7bn investment
UK to level up local transport with £7bn investment
Cityam.com
April 4, 2022 Monday 2:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 391 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The UK Government announced today it will invest £7bn to level up the country's local transport system. 
Transport secretary Grant Shapps tweeted that the funding will be use "to roll out cheaper, better bus services 
outside of London", providing upgrade to tram, cycling and rail networks too. Under the scheme, 31 counties, city 
regions and [...]The post UK to level up local transport with £7bn investment appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK Government announced today it will invest £7bn to level up the country's local transport system. 
Transport secretary Grant Shapps tweeted that the funding will be use "to roll out cheaper, better bus services 
outside of London", providing upgrade to tram, cycling and rail networks too.
                      I continue working to level up transport & tackle cost-of-living pressures. I've announced how £7 
BILLION will be used to roll out cheaper, better bus services outside London & provide major upgrades to local 
tram, cycling & walking & rail networks  https://t.co/0zTonhg0qs &mdash; Rt Hon Grant Shapps MP 
(@grantshapps) April 4, 2022
Under the scheme, 31 counties, city regions and unitary authorities will be given funds to make buses more 
frequent and cheaper. 
In Cornwall, which was chosen as a pilot area, from 10 April bus fares will be slashed with costs for short routes 
going down by 20 per cent and some bus passes cut by around 50 per cent. 
"Buses are the most popular way of getting around in this country - but for too long people outside of London have 
had a raw deal," Shapps commented. 
"The investment we're making today to ramp up the bus revolution will drive down fares at a time when people's 
finances are tight and help connect communities across England."
According to the Confederation of Passenger Transport, while the news was welcome but needs to be met with 
future funding. 
UK to level up local transport with £7bn investment
"It is important that we remember though that there will be millions of passengers left disappointed by today's 
announcement as their local area missed out on funding," a spokesperson said. 
"It's vital that the government now clearly sets out future funding plans and policy initiatives for delivering its 
National Bus Strategy, including measures to reduce car use. 
"This will ensure that today's announcement is the beginning not the end of plans to improve bus services across 
the country."
The government also confirmed a £5.7bn investment to level up transport networks across England's eight city 
regions. 
The money, initially announced in the Autumn statement, will help deliver flat fares on buses in Greater Manchester 
as well as a mass transit network in West Yorkshire. 
Read more
Ryanair narrows 2021 loss forecast and increases fuel hedging
The post UK to level up local transport with £7bn investment  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 4, 2022
End of Document
Putting passengers first: Airlines to offer compensation if domestic flight is an hour late
Putting passengers first: Airlines to offer compensation if domestic flight is 
an hour late
Cityam.com
January 31, 2022 Monday 8:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 327 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Airlines could be forced to offer passengers compensation if their domestic flight is an hour late, 
according to new UK ministers' plans. Under the new plans, the UK Government will replace the current EU rules - 
which allow passengers to ask for compensation if flights are delayed by more than three hours - with a [...]The post 
Putting passengers first: Airlines to offer compensation if domestic flight is an hour late appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Airlines could be forced to offer passengers compensation if their domestic flight is an hour late, according to new 
UK ministers' plans. 
Under the new plans, the UK Government will replace the current EU rules - which allow passengers to ask for 
compensation if flights are delayed by more than three hours - with a system that links the delay's length with the 
cost of travel.
"People deserve a service that puts passengers first when things go wrong, so today I've launched proposals that 
aim to bolster airline consumer protections and rights," said transport secretary Grant Shapps. "We're making the 
most of our Brexit dividend with our new freedoms outside of the EU and this review will help build a trustworthy, 
reputable sector."
The Department for Transport is also considering mandating airlines to be part of alternative dispute resolution 
(ADR) schemes, which airlines can voluntarily join within the current framework.
By forcing all airlines to adopt ADR, the government will give travellers a route for escalating complaints without 
having to go to court.
Shapps is also proposing to strengthen the Civil Aviation Authority's (CAA) role, giving it powers to fine those 
airlines who don't refund customers within seven days.
"The proposals will improve passenger rights and equip the Civil Aviation Authority with the appropriate tools to act 
swiftly and effectively for the benefit of consumers," said Richard Moriarty, CAA's chief executive. "The ADR 
Putting passengers first: Airlines to offer compensation if domestic flight is an hour late
scheme has helped thousands of consumers seek redress from their airline or airport and we welcome the proposal 
to bring more airlines onto the scheme."
Other plans include mandating carriers to refund people with mobility issues in full for damages caused to the 
wheelchair or mobility scooter.
Read more
Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss
The post Putting passengers first: Airlines to offer compensation if domestic flight is an hour late  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
Fuel price warning if Asda forecourt mega-merger goes ahead
Fuel price warning if Asda forecourt mega-merger goes ahead
Cityam.com
January 23, 2023 Monday 5:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 457 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Motorist group Fairfuel UK has warned of higher fuel prices if a mooted forecourt merger between Asda 
and the Issa brothers goes ahead. The billionaires – who bought Asda in 2020 for £6.8bn – are reportedly plotting 
to merge the supermarket chain with their forecourt business EG Group. The merger could create a new company 
[...]The post Fuel price warning if Asda forecourt mega-merger goes ahead appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Motorist group Fairfuel UK has warned of higher fuel prices if a mooted forecourt merger between Asda and the 
Issa brothers goes ahead.
The billionaires – who bought Asda in 2020 for £6.8bn – are reportedly plotting to merge the supermarket chain with 
their forecourt business EG Group.
The merger could create a new company worth around £12bn, the Times  first reported on Saturday. 
Nevertheless, Fairfuel UK has called on the competition watchdog, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) to 
investigate the deal – fearing a hit to consumers. 
“Asda pump prices have been the lowest across the nation for decades, but I and most motorists are not convinced 
any merged deal will settle at the Supermarket’s traditionally much lower fill up prices,” Fairfuel’s founder Howard 
Cox said. 
“That’s why the government’s watchdog must step in and protect the UK’s 37 million drivers from yet more fuel 
supply chain exploitation, in this case through greedy takeovers that will only benefit very much in debt opportunistic 
businessmen.”
Read more
Insurers falling short in modelling cyber and natural catastrophe risks, Bank of England warns
Cox’s comments were echoed by Simon Williams, fuel spokesperson at the RAC.
Fuel price warning if Asda forecourt mega-merger goes ahead
“If the merger were to make Asda any less competitive, this would be bad news as there would be even less 
incentive for other retailers to compete on price, as well as fewer better value places to fill up,” Williams toldCity 
A.M.
It comes as small business minister Kevin Hollinkrake said business secretary Grant Shapps already raised 
concerns “about fuel prices with the CMA and directly with retailers.”
Both the CMA and BEIS were approached for comment.
Campaigners have called on the retailers to cut down on forecourt prices, as the cost of petrol and diesel is still too 
high for most motorists.
According to Luke Bosdet, road fuel spokesperson at the AA, competition needs to be “stimulated with fuel price 
transparency, as it is the case in Northern Ireland with the fuel price checker.”
Deployed by the Consumer Council in Northern Ireland, the price checker is an interactive map that allows 
motorists to check where prices are lower by showing the average cost of diesel and petrol in towns and cities 
across the country.
A government spokesperson said: “The CMA is the independent regulator with responsibility for scrutinising 
mergers to ensure that they do not reduce competition in the market. Competition is important for creating choice 
and low prices for consumers, as well as incentivising business investment and growth.” 
Read more
Flying the green flag: Ryanair’s £140m Boeing deal will save airline ’65m litres of fuel’ a year
The post Fuel price warning if Asda forecourt mega-merger goes ahead  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 23, 2023
End of Document
Air passenger demand to grow by two thirds on 2021 levels
Air passenger demand to grow by two thirds on 2021 levels
Cityam.com
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 5:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 276 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Passenger demand in 2022 is expected to grow by two thirds on 2021, only 15 per cent down on 2019 
levels. According to aviation analytics firm Cirium, capacity growth will reach up to 47 per cent and will go back to 
2015 levels. "Whilst I knew Cirium's fleet forecast is more optimistic than what we [...]The post Air passenger 
demand to grow by two thirds on 2021 levels appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Passenger demand in 2022 is expected to grow by two thirds on 2021, only 15 per cent down on 2019 levels.
According to aviation analytics firm Cirium, capacity growth will reach up to 47 per cent and will go back to 2015 
levels. 
"Whilst I knew Cirium's fleet forecast is more optimistic than what we did a year ago, we've been quite conservative 
and we still forecast that the world will have lost some three to four years of growth as far into the future as 2038," 
said Cirium's senior consultant Richard Evans.
When working on its forecast for the year, the firm had already taken into account that Covid variants such as 
Omicron could arise and slow down the pace of recovery.
"We already assumed some slowing down of the pace of recovery this winter - just as we saw in the first quarter of 
2021 - before a further rebound in travel going into the summer 2022 season," Evans added. "So relatively to this 
baseline, we're not anticipating reworking our numbers just yet.
"Of course, it's too early to say exactly what Omicron means to the aviation industry's recovery. We are in a lot 
better position this time, with most of Europe, the Americas, and parts of Asia having very high vaccination rates."
Evans' comments come on the same day low-cost giant Ryanair said it was expecting its losses for the year ending 
March to double as a result of Omicron concerns. 
The airline said its net losses will range between 250m to 450m, compared with 100-200m that was previously 
estimated, City A.M. reported.
Air passenger demand to grow by two thirds on 2021 levels
Read more
Travel industry 2022 lookahead: Are we back to square one?
The post Air passenger demand to grow by two thirds on 2021 levels  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Unacceptable: Aviation regulator slams Wizz Air over complaints and refunds
Unacceptable: Aviation regulator slams Wizz Air over complaints and 
refunds
Cityam.com
December 16, 2022 Friday 1:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 260 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The UK aviation regulator has slammed Wizz Air for its “unacceptable” behaviour when it comes to 
passengers’ complaints and refunds.  The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) reported that the low-cost carrier ranked as 
the worst airline for escalated complaints, with 811 grievances per million UK passengers.  Escalated complaints 
are complaints taken to alternative dispute resolution schemes [...]The post Unacceptable: Aviation regulator slams 
Wizz Air over complaints and refunds appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK aviation regulator has slammed Wizz Air for its “unacceptable” behaviour when it comes to passengers’ 
complaints and refunds. 
The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) reported that the low-cost carrier ranked as the worst airline for escalated 
complaints, with 811 grievances per million UK passengers. 
Escalated complaints are complaints taken to alternative dispute resolution schemes or to the CAA by passengers 
annoyed at airlines’ responses to a grievance.
In comparison, Easyjet  has had 245 complaints, while Ryanair and British Airways had 235 and 166 respectively. 
“The volume of complaints and claims received by ADR in respect of Wizz Air is far higher than those seen for other 
airlines,” said Anna Bowles, head of consumer policy & enforcement at the CAA.
The aviation regulator also questioned Wizz’s time to process refund claims. 
“We have made it clear to Wizz Air that its behaviour is unacceptable and that we expect overdue complaints and 
claims to be resolved in advance of Christmas,” Bowles added.
A Wizz Air spokesperson apologised for the inconvenience caused, saying the company had dealt with an 
“unprecedented number of claims” following this summer’s disruption.
Unacceptable: Aviation regulator slams Wizz Air over complaints and refunds
“We are deeply sorry for the inconvenience we have caused our customers and we are working hard to put things 
right and resolve all outstanding claims as quickly as possible,” they said.
Read more
Heathrow raises earnings forecast to £1.67bn as passengers surpass 61m
The post Unacceptable: Aviation regulator slams Wizz Air over complaints and refunds  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 16, 2022
End of Document
Uber brings subscription service Uber One to the UK later this month
Uber brings subscription service Uber One to the UK later this month
Cityam.com
May 16, 2022 Monday 5:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 242 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Uber has announced it will bring its subscription service Uber One to the UK later this month. 
Established to rival the likes of Deliveroo Plus and Amazon Prime's food delivery services, Uber One will give 
customers free delivery on Uber Eats as well as discounts on rides. "We know users across our platform have been 
[...]The post Uber brings subscription service Uber One to the UK later this month appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Uber has announced it will bring its subscription service Uber One to the UK later this month. 
Established to rival the likes of Deliveroo Plus and Amazon Prime's food delivery services, Uber One will give 
customers free delivery on Uber Eats as well as discounts on rides. 
"We know users across our platform have been asking for a membership programme, and we're looking forward to 
launching this for them soon," said a company spokesperson, not specifying how much the service will cost in the 
UK. 
Already established in the US, Uber One is expected to expand to Mexico and Germany too. 
The announcement comes two weeks after the company posted its first quarter results, exceeding analysts' 
expectations with reported a 136 per cent increase in reported revenue growth to $6.9bn and an adjusted EBITDA 
of $168m. 
Despite the positive results, the ride-hail giant announced a new wave a cost cutting last Monday, City A.M. 
reported. 
In an internal email sent to staff, chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi emphasised the importance of shareholders.
"Please bear in mind that while investors don't run the company, they do own the company - they've entrusted us 
with running it well," he told employees. 
"Channeling Jerry Maguire, we need to show them the money."
Uber brings subscription service Uber One to the UK later this month
Read more
Ryanair to revert to second-hand market if Boeing doesn't step up, warns O'Leary
The post Uber brings subscription service Uber One to the UK later this month  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 16, 2022
End of Document
Rolls-Royce finalises £1.5bn sale of Spanish subsidiary to Bain
Rolls-Royce finalises £1.5bn sale of Spanish subsidiary to Bain
Cityam.com
September 15, 2022 Thursday 11:58 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 210 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Rolls-Royce has finalised the €1.8bn (£1.5bn) sale of Spanish subsidiary ITP Aero to a group of 
investors led by private equity giant Bain.  Following the £1.5bn sale, shares went up 3 per cent.  “ITP Aero will 
remain a key strategic supplier and partner for Rolls-Royce across both Civil Aerospace and Defence programmes,” 
Rolls Royce said [...]The post Rolls-Royce finalises £1.5bn sale of Spanish subsidiary to Bain appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Rolls-Royce has finalised the €1.8bn (£1.5bn) sale of Spanish subsidiary ITP Aero to a group of investors led by 
private equity giant Bain. 
Following the £1.5bn sale, shares went up 3 per cent. 
“ITP Aero will remain a key strategic supplier and partner for Rolls-Royce across both Civil Aerospace and Defence 
programmes,” Rolls Royce said in a statement. 
An aero engine and gas turbine manufacturer, ITP was founded in 1989 as a joint venture between Rolls-Royce 
and Spanish engineering firm SENER.
The deal – which was initially announced in September last year as part of Rolls-Royce’s disposal programme – 
reached completion after the Spanish government approved the transaction.
The proceeds will be used to rebuild Rolls-Royce’s balance sheet, including repaying a £2bn loan, after the 
company was plagued by two years of pandemic. 
The engine manufacturer recently posted squeezed  profits for the first six months of the year due to supply chain 
issues and soaring inflation rates, City A.M. reported.
Rolls-Royce, ITP Aero and Bain declined to comment.
Read more
Rolls-Royce finalises £1.5bn sale of Spanish subsidiary to Bain
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary to stay until 2028 as airline sorry for ‘mishandling’ press at AGM
The post Rolls-Royce finalises £1.5bn sale of Spanish subsidiary to Bain  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 16, 2022
End of Document
EasyJet profits expected to fly past £260m as demand and ticket prices soar
EasyJet profits expected to fly past £260m as demand and ticket prices soar
Cityam.com
April 18, 2023 Tuesday 8:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 411 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Easyjet announced a £120m improvement in its first half performance year on year, as the low-cost 
airline continued to turnaround its business. Headline losses before tax for the first half are expected to be between 
£405m and £425m, in spite of economic challenges including inflation, rising fuel costs and preparation costs for 
summer. The airline [...]The post EasyJet profits expected to fly past £260m as demand and ticket prices soar 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Easyjet  announced a £120m improvement in its first half performance year on year, as the low-cost airline 
continued to turnaround its business.
Headline losses before tax for the first half are expected to be between £405m and £425m, in spite of economic 
challenges including inflation, rising fuel costs and preparation costs for summer.
The airline reported a particularly strong Easter, with 1,600 flights operating per day and capacity around pre-
pandemic levels. 99.8 per cent of planned flights jetted off despite disruption from French strikes over pension 
reforms.
It has continued increased its capacity throughout the quarter, growing 40 per cent from January to March and is 
expecting to hit pre-pandemic capacity by summer. 
Read more
Two million Brits set to travel abroad this Easter
Johan Lundgren, chief executive of Easyjet, said: “demand for easyJet’s flights and holidays has continued to grow 
in the half, resulting in more than a £120 million pound improvement in our performance as well as a billion pound 
revenue improvement year on year.”
He highlighted the “strong booking momentum into summer as customers prioritise spending on travel ,” as well 
easyJet holidays “steep growth trajectory.”
EasyJet profits expected to fly past £260m as demand and ticket prices soar
 “All of this means Easyjet expects to outperform FY23 market expectations.”
                     EasyJet turning a corner?                   
John Moore, senior investment manager at RBC Brewin Dolphin, said that “there are real signs the airline is 
beginning to turn a corner.”
He explained that “taking more of a ‘Ryanair  approach’ to routes, baggage allowances, and staff shifts has helped 
to protect yields and margins, and the airline is well hedged in terms of fuel costs. “
“Airlines’ shares have stalled in recent months, but easyJet should be on track to build up around 40p of earnings 
per share over the next 12 months or so, which would make the company’s shares appear on the cheap side 
relative to the rest of the market.”
Emma Carr, retail partner at Gowling WLG, predicted that “shareholders will take confidence from these results. It 
looks like the new cost control measures, new route additions and a strong balance book has helped to keep the 
company steady as we predicted back in January.”
Easyjet’s shares  (EZJ) were last up just over three per cent at 526.96p.
Read more
Three things we learnt from Easyjet and Wizz Air’s results
The post EasyJet profits expected to fly past £260m as demand and ticket prices soar  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air crashes to 482m annual loss as wait for recovery goes on
Wizz Air crashes to 482m annual loss as wait for recovery goes on
Cityam.com
June 2, 2021 Wednesday 7:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 234 words
Byline: Damian Shepherd
Highlight: Wizz Air today said it expected to see further losses in the next year unless Covid restrictions are 
permanently lifted,The post Wizz Air crashes to 482m annual loss as wait for recovery goes on appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air today said it expected to see further losses in the next year unless Covid restrictions are permanently 
lifted, after posting an annual loss of 482m.
The budget airline's revenue also plunged by more than 73 per cent to 739m because of travel restrictions across 
Europe.
Passenger numbers fell by three-quarters to ten million and the company warned that it does not expect full 
capacity to return until at least 2023.
Wizz Air carried 833,000 passengers in May, compared to 126,000 in the same month in 2020 when the pandemic 
kicked in.
József Váradi, CEO of Wizz Air, described the last 12 months as "one of the most challenging years for the aviation 
industry".
"Whereas the recovery pattern continues to be difficult to forecast, the trends are encouraging and we are ready as 
ever.
"We have prepared the company to be an even more formidable player and to take advantage of the next phase of 
market opportunities that await post pandemic."
Throughout the pandemic the budget airline has been held up as one of the aviation industry's few relative success 
stories, but today's update sees it join fellow carriers easyJet and Ryanair in racking up a hefty loss.
Wizz Air crashes to 482m annual loss as wait for recovery goes on
The Hungarian carrier said it still had more than £1.6bn in cash, having taken several steps to shore up its finances 
over the last quarter.
The post Wizz Air crashes to 482m annual loss as wait for recovery goes on  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 2, 2021
End of Document
Exclusive: Belarusian President Lukashenko sued for hijacking a plane with criminal intent
Exclusive: Belarusian President Lukashenko sued for hijacking a plane with 
criminal intent
Cityam.com
May 28, 2021 Friday 1:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 503 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Following the diversion of a Ryanair flight carrying 126 passengers last weekend, including Belarusian 
journalist Raman Pratasevich who was subsequentlyThe post Exclusive: Belarusian President Lukashenko sued for 
hijacking a plane with criminal intent appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Following the diversion of a Ryanair flight carrying 126 passengers last weekend, including Belarusian journalist 
Raman Pratasevich who was subsequently detained, Reporters Without Borders is suing the country's president in 
a Lithuanian court. 
The media advocacy group filed a suit in Lithuania's capital Vilnius, urging the country's prosecutors to investigate 
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko for 'hijacking of an aircraft with criminal intent.'
"We decided to file a complaint against Lukashenko himself because he was the direct instigator of this act of 
hijacking for terrorist purposes, and the term is not excessive," Jeanne Cavelier, head of the Eastern Europe and 
Central Asia Desk at Reporters without Borders, told City A.M. this afternoon. 
"By this unprecedented act, Lukashenko wanted to intensify intimidation of the public, especially journalists," she 
said.
Last weekend, the Ryanair plane, which was bound for Lithuania, was forced to land in Minsk after Belarus claimed 
a bomb threat to the aircraft.
The Lithuanian criminal code penalises hijacking a plane 'by threatening the lives or health of the crew or 
passengers' and defines 'terrorist aim' as the 'intent to intimidate the public or part of the public.' 
 Cavelier is currently in Vilnius and she has met with Martynas Jovaia, the chief prosecutor of the department for 
investigating organised crime and corruption, Lithuanian deputy foreign-minister Mantas Adomėnas and Belarusian 
opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya. 
Exclusive: Belarusian President Lukashenko sued for hijacking a plane with criminal intent
"Tsikhanouskaya told us she was very concerned for her country's journalists after the hijacking and Raman's 
arrest, and stressed the importance of international campaigning," she disclosed. 
"In our view, there can be no doubt about Lukashenko's intention of terrorising the journalistic community. The 
tragic fate suffered by Raman and his girlfriend Sofia confirms this," Cavelier added.
                     'A bloody rebellion'                   
Earlier this week, Lukashenko said that Pratasevich, who was pulled off the plane that was grounded in Minsk, had 
been plotting a "bloody rebellion".
The president went on to accuse the West of starting a "hybrid war" against him, in his first public comments since 
the incident on Sunday.
"As we predicted, our ill-wishers from outside the country and from inside the country changed their methods of 
attack on the state," Lukashenko told parliament.
"They have crossed many red lines and have abandoned common sense and human morals," he said, referring to 
a "hybrid war" without explaining what he meant by the comment.
Belarus has been subject to EU and US sanctions since Lukashenko cracked down on pro-democracy protests 
after a disputed election last year.
The leader has been in power since 1994 and faced weeks of mass protests last year after he was declared the 
winner of a presidential election that his opponents said was rigged.
The post Exclusive: Belarusian President Lukashenko sued for hijacking a plane with criminal intent  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 28, 2021
End of Document
Tui joins BA in Ryanair 's case against UK's traffic light travel policy
Tui joins BA in Ryanair's case against UK's traffic light travel policy
Cityam.com
June 22, 2021 Tuesday 12:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 391 words
Byline: Josh Martin
Highlight: Tui joins BA and Virgin Atlantic in Ryanair's legal battle against travel traffic light systemThe post Tui 
joins BA and Virgin Atlantic in Ryanair's legal battle against travel traffic light system appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Travel giant Tui has announced it has joined Virgin Atlantic and British Airways' parent company IAG in supporting 
legal action against the UK Government's traffic light travel restrictions.
The FTSE-listed tour operator said the three companies have become interested parties in a challenge launched by 
Ryanair and Stansted airport owner MAG last week.
Ryanair's case is an attempt to get the Government to be more transparent  in relation to how it determines which 
countries are on the green, amber and red lists under the traffic light system for international travel.
Airlines and the rest of the travel industry have been effectively knee-capped as no major travel destinations are on 
the UK's quarantine-free green list.
Speaking at an industry conference this morning, Tui managing director Andrew Flintham said: "At the time of the 
last country review, many destinations such as Malta, the Greek islands and the Balearics had much lower rates (of 
infection) than the UK.
"It was inexplicable as to why these were not added and instead Portugal was moved straight from green to amber, 
without the slightest sign of stopping at the much-vaunted green watchlist.
"We must understand the criteria we are all working towards so we can pre-empt when countries may move into 
different categories and help our customers with that challenge, and we must understand how the framework is 
being applied."
Airlines and other industry participants were asked to join the Global Travel taskforce, an endevour by the UK 
Government to figure out how best to restart international travel after 17 May. The industry has repeatedly spoken 
out on how they felt they were ignored.
Tui joins BA in Ryanair 's case against UK's traffic light travel policy
In court documents filed last week the parties challenge "the Government's lack of transparency, particularly around 
the lack of clear reasoning given for moving Portugal from the green list to the amber list and its decision not to 
move any amber list countries to the green list".
Since the case was filed, the UK Government has made positive noises that fully vaccinated Brits may be able to 
skip self-isolation when returning from an amber list country, although nothing is confirmed.
The next update to the traffic light system is expected later this week.
The post Tui joins BA and Virgin Atlantic in Ryanair's legal battle against travel traffic light system  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 22, 2021
End of Document
British Airways ’ problems mount as pilots threaten to walk out
British Airways’ problems mount as pilots threaten to walk out
Cityam.com
July 26, 2022 Tuesday 11:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 269 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Problems at British Airways (BA) seem to be mounting as pilots have now threatened to walk out in a 
dispute over salaries. Balpa, the only recognised union for the carrier’s pilots, said it was in negotiations with the 
airline “to persuade them that continuing Covid deductions from wages is no longer justified.  In July 2020, [...]The 
post British Airways’ problems mount as pilots threaten to walk out appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Problems at British Airways (BA) seem to be mounting as pilots have now threatened to walk out in a dispute over 
salaries.
Balpa, the only recognised union for the carrier’s pilots, said it was in negotiations with the airline “to persuade them 
that continuing Covid deductions from wages is no longer justified. 
In July 2020, pilots agreed to a 20 per cent temporary salary cut, which decreased to 8 per cent over the following 
two years. Now they demand a pay rise.
“Given the current rate of inflation, a pay rise is necessary to ensure appropriate recruitment and retention of skilled 
and professional pilots to BA,” said Balpa’s general secretary Martin Chalk. 
Both BA and Balpa said they remained committed to continuing talks.
According to Telegraph sources, pilots have considered a strike following the success of negotiations between the 
legacy carrier and check-in staff.
Check-in staff in the unions Unite and GMB secured a 13 per cent salary increase after threatening strike action.
“Within Balpa we don’t usually like to do that. We would rather take a grown-up approach,” a union source told the 
outlet. 
“But we are under enormous pressure. And the longer this goes on, the harder it gets.”
British Airways ’ problems mount as pilots threaten to walk out
The airline was forced to axe around 18 per cent of its flights for July, August and September in a bid to guarantee 
smoother operations. 
BA was also subjected to the 100,000 daily passenger cap imposed by Heathrow earlier this month, City A.M. 
reported.
Read more
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
The post British Airways’ problems mount as pilots threaten to walk out  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2022
End of Document
UK flights during festive period remain 14 per cent below pre-Covid levels
UK flights during festive period remain 14 per cent below pre-Covid levels
Cityam.com
December 20, 2022 Tuesday 12:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 304 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: UK flights during the festive period have remained significantly below pre-pandemic levels, according to 
research. Data published today by aviation analytics firm Cirium showed that 30,979 departures have been 
scheduled from UK airports between 21 December and 4 January.  This is 14 per cent below the 36,138 reported in 
2019. UK flights are nevertheless 33 [...]The post UK flights during festive period remain 14 per cent below pre-
Covid levels appeared first on CityAM.
Body
UK flights during the festive period have remained significantly below pre-pandemic levels, according to research.
Data published today by aviation analytics firm Cirium showed that 30,979 departures have been scheduled from 
UK airports between 21 December and 4 January. 
This is 14 per cent below the 36,138 reported in 2019.
Read more
Elizabeth Hurley among passengers stranded due to BA technical glitch
UK flights are nevertheless 33 per cent higher than last year – a sign that the industry has progressed with its post-
Covid recovery. 
According to figures, Easyjet is the largest airline operating during the holiday period, with 5,928 expected 
departures, followed by British Airways (BA), Ryanair and Loganair.
Whereas Heathrow will see the largest number of departing flights – 8,172 – followed by Gatwick, Stansted and 
Manchester airports.
Travel expert Rob Staines told City A.M. the figures reflect the “many uncertainties” surrounding travel at the 
moment.
UK flights during festive period remain 14 per cent below pre-Covid levels
“Rail strikes mean it’s a struggle for many to even get to an airport and with the looming border force walkouts and 
various airlines halting sales many will defer travel plans,” he said.
Passengers could nevertheless face disruption when coming back as around 1,000 Border Force workers are set to 
walk out from 23 to 26 as well as between 28 and 31 December. 
Members of the union PCS will walk at several UK airports – including Heathrow, Gatwick and Manchester – 
leading to over two hours of queue at passport controls during the peak period, City A.M. reported.
Passengers might also be forced to wait aboard planes to avoid overcrowding, according to multiple reports.
Read more
More strikes in the new year as train drivers to walk out on 5 January
The post UK flights during festive period remain 14 per cent below pre-Covid levels  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 20, 2022
End of Document
Tighter Covid rules in Wales will take pubs 'into sub-viable trading'
Tighter Covid rules in Wales will take pubs 'into sub-viable trading'
Cityam.com
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 4:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 352 words
Byline: Emily Hawkins
Highlight: Additional Covid restrictions from Boxing Day "will only make matters worse" for pubs and restaurants, 
the Welsh hospitality sector has cautioned. UKHospitality Cymru has warned. No more than six people will be 
allowed to meet in a group in pubs, cinemas and restaurants from 26 December, it was announced on Wednesday. 
What's more, two metre [...]The post Tighter Covid rules in Wales will take pubs 'into sub-viable trading' appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Additional Covid restrictions from Boxing Day "will only make matters worse" for pubs and restaurants, the Welsh 
hospitality sector has cautioned. UKHospitality Cymru has warned.
No more than six people will be allowed to meet in a group in pubs, cinemas and restaurants from 26 December, it 
was announced on Wednesday.
What's more, two metre social distancing rules will return for public places, first minister Mark Drakeford said.
Venues that serve alcohol will be subject to strict rules once more, including table service, face masks and the 
collection of contact tracing details.
"The new restrictions virtually close Wales' events industry and take all other hospitality businesses much further 
into sub-viable trading," said David Chapman, executive director for UKHospitality Cymru. 
"Hundreds of millions of pounds of business have been lost in the run up to a very quiet Christmas and things will 
now get worse from Boxing Day," he said.
Hospitality bosses have also warned more financial support is needed to help businesses weather the storm 
created by measures to tackle the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant.
Read more
Ryanair expects losses to double as Omicron eats into bookings
Tighter Covid rules in Wales will take pubs 'into sub-viable trading'
"Welsh Government tells us it has pushed its own financial boundaries as far as it can. The new packages amount 
to £120m, an additional £60m, but this falls way short of the huge scale of the business that will be lost," Chapman 
added.
The trade body called on the UK government to make more funding available for Wales.
CAMRA chairman Nik Antona said the reintroduction of the rule would "make it difficult, if not impossible, for many 
of our pubs, social clubs and brewery taprooms to turn a profit."
He added: "Traditional smaller community locals which don't serve food will be particularly hard hit at a time when 
the decent Christmas trade they were relying on to help them recover and see them through the quiet months at the 
start of the year has already evaporated as a result of government announcements."
The post Tighter Covid rules in Wales will take pubs 'into sub-viable trading'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Covent Garden owner Capco reports strong rental demand as West End gears up for its £3.5bn merger with 
Shaftesbury
Covent Garden owner Capco reports strong rental demand as West End 
gears up for its £3.5bn merger with Shaftesbury
Cityam.com
January 30, 2023 Monday 8:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 354 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Trading conditions across the Covent Garden estate have been positive, in particular a successful 
Christmas trading period with like-for-like customer sales in aggregate exceeding pre-pandemic levels. Ian 
Hawksworth, chief executive of Covent Garden estate owner Capco, said: “There is continued momentum at 
Covent Garden with robust trading conditions, in particular a successful Christmas period,” said [...]The post Covent 
Garden owner Capco reports strong rental demand as West End gears up for its £3.5bn merger with Shaftesbury 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Trading conditions across the Covent Garden estate have been positive, in particular a successful Christmas 
trading period with like-for-like customer sales in aggregate exceeding pre-pandemic levels.
Ian Hawksworth, chief executive of Covent Garden estate owner Capco, said: “There is continued momentum at 
Covent Garden with robust trading conditions, in particular a successful Christmas period,” said 
Capco announced today it had secured 71 leases in the West End for a total £10m, 13 per cent higher than the 
previous year. 
Of those, 46 were signed in the second half of the year – up five per cent on 2021 levels. 
“Strong leasing demand for our prime properties in the West End continues to deliver rental growth, however an 
outward shift in yields resulted in an unchanged valuation for Covent Garden over the year,” Hawksworth added.
Covent Garden’s valuation – which has remained at around £1.7bn since 2021 – was offset by higher interest rates 
and inflationary pressures. 
Estimated rental value went up six per cent to £81m, while Capco maintains liquidity of £423m.
Covent Garden owner Capco reports strong rental demand as West End gears up for its £3.5bn merger with 
Shaftesbury
“Backed by our strong balance sheet, long-term strategy and creative approach we look ahead with confidence in 
the prospects and resilience of Covent Garden and the West End.”
Upcoming openings in the area include a new jewellery concept store called Mejury, as well as the opening of 
perfume multinational Creed and that of Uniqlo, which will open its new flagship store this spring. 
Capco made the headlines last year when it announced a £3.5bn merger with rival Shaftesbury to bring together 
the vast majority of the West End under a new company called Shaftesbury Capital.
The consultancy firm said today the merger with Shaftesbury will be completed in the first quarter of 2023, subject 
to clearance by the competition watchdog, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA).
Read more
Ryanair’s profits skyrocket to eye-watering £184.9m as low-cost airline cashes in on strong dollar and Asian tourists
The post Covent Garden owner Capco reports strong rental demand as West End gears up for its £3.5bn merger 
with Shaftesbury  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 30, 2023
End of Document
Former Everton FC director among new Russian sanctions: Officials with ties to ‘republics’ of Donetsk and 
Luhansk targeted
Former Everton FC director among new Russian sanctions: Officials with 
ties to ‘republics’ of Donetsk and Luhansk targeted
Cityam.com
July 27, 2022 Wednesday 11:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 347 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight: A former director of Everton FC is among new UK sanctions on Russian officials, as the foreign office 
targets officials with links to the puppet administrations of the ‘Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics’ . Among 
those hit are Vitaly Khotsenko and Vladislav Kuznetsov, the Russian-imposed leaders of the so-called republics, in 
addition to Sanjar Ismailov, nephew of [...]The post Former Everton FC director among new Russian sanctions: 
Officials with ties to ‘republics’ of Donetsk and Luhansk targeted appeared first on CityAM.
Body
A former director of Everton FC is among new UK sanctions on Russian officials, as the foreign office targets 
officials with links to the puppet administrations of the ‘Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics’ .
Among those hit are Vitaly Khotsenko and Vladislav Kuznetsov, the Russian-imposed leaders of the so-called 
republics, in addition to Sanjar Ismailov, nephew of former Arsenal and Everton football club owner, Alisher 
Usmanov. 
 Alisher was sanctioned in March, while Sarvar was a former director at Everton.
This comes after Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February, before refocusing its war on the eastern Donetsk and 
Luhansk regions, which it claims are Russian.
Ukraine and the international community reject Russia’s claims and have branded the so-called republics as 
illegitimate, while there has been fighting over the region since 2014.
In addition, 29 regional governors from across Russia who have been directed by the Kremlin to transfer funds to 
the two republics in question, have been sanctioned.
Among those also hit are Russian minister of justice Konstantin Chuychenko and deputy Justice Oleg Sviridenko.
Read more
Former Everton FC director among new Russian sanctions: Officials with ties to ‘republics’ of Donetsk and 
Luhansk targeted
Ryanair flies into first profit in years despite merciless Ukraine beating in already ‘fragile’ market
Tory leadership frontrunner and Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: “We will not keep quiet and watch Kremlin-
appointed state actors suppress the people of Ukraine or the freedoms of their own people.
“We will continue to impose harsh sanctions on those who are trying to legitimise Putin’s illegal invasion until 
Ukraine prevails.”
The UK has so far sanctioned more than 1,000 individuals and 100 companies with ties to the government.
The UK also hit a number of Syrian officials who have been supporting Russia’s war effort, including Muhammad 
Al-Salti, the Commander-in-Chief of the ‘Palestine Liberation Army’.
Read more
No pressure? Gazprom cuts gas flows into Europe as cold winter months loom
The post Former Everton FC director among new Russian sanctions: Officials with ties to ‘republics’ of Donetsk and 
Luhansk targeted  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 27, 2022
End of Document
Belarusian Olympic athlete defects to Poland after warning from Grandmother
Belarusian Olympic athlete defects to Poland after warning from 
Grandmother
Cityam.com
August 5, 2021 Thursday 2:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 304 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Belarusian Olympic sprinter Krystsina Tsimanouskaya, who decided to defect to Poland instead of 
returning to her home country, did soThe post Belarusian Olympic sprinter defects to Poland after warning from 
Grandmother appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Belarusian Olympic sprinter Krystsina Tsimanouskaya, who decided to defect to Poland instead of returning to her 
home country, did so because her grandmother warned her not to.
Tsimanouskaya, 24, said her family were worried she would be sent to a psychiatric hospital upon her arrival in 
Belarus.
"I have always been far from politics, I didn't sign any letters or go to any protests, I didn't say anything against the 
Belarusian government," she told Reuters.
"It may sound cruel because of all the terrible things that happened in Belarus last summer but I was trying to keep 
away from it, but all I have wanted is to go to the Olympics and do my best."
Last year, mass protests erupted across Belarus in response to a disputed election which saw current leader 
Alexander Lukashenko keep tight grip of his 25-year reign.
The protests lead to a police crackdown on opposition voices, eventually leading to the arrest of journalist Roman 
Protasevich on a Ryanair flight in May
Belarusian officials ordered Tsimanouskaya to go back to the country after she criticised the team's management.
The athlete alleged she was kidnapped by officials from her own team at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic games.
She and her husband have since been granted humanitarian visas from Poland - a country which has traditionally 
been critical of Lukashenko's dictatorship.
Belarusian Olympic athlete defects to Poland after warning from Grandmother
"Grandmother called me when they were already driving me to the airport," Tsimanouskaya said. "Literally, I had 
some 10 seconds. She called me, all that she told me was: 'Please do not come back to Belarus, it's not safe'."
"That's it, she hung up," she added. "I would want to return to Belarus. I love my country. I did not betray it and I 
hope I will be able to return."
The post Belarusian Olympic sprinter defects to Poland after warning from Grandmother  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 5, 2021
End of Document
Belarus' act of aviation piracy and kidnapping proves the obvious: anyone can bully the EU
Belarus' act of aviation piracy and kidnapping proves the obvious: anyone 
can bully the EU
Cityam.com
May 25, 2021 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 757 words
Byline: John Hulsman
Highlight: Yesterday, within about five minutes of one another, both my partner and a colleague drolly made the 
same comment: "IThe post Belarus' act of aviation piracy and kidnapping proves the obvious: anyone can bully the 
EU appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Yesterday, within about five minutes of one another, both my partner and a colleague drolly made the same 
comment: "I know Ryanair is tough about customer service, but I didn't realise you had to pay extra to avoid being 
kidnapped."
There were, of course, referring to the dreadful act of piracy that occurred over the weekend. An Irish plane, 
Ryanair Flight 737, flying from Athens to Vilnius was hijacked and forced to land in Belarus. Aboard the plane was 
Belarusian political dissident Roman Protasevich who once headed the influential opposition messaging app, 
Nexta. Protasevich played a critical role in organizing the nationwide demonstrations in August 2020 that briefly 
threatened the rule of Alexander Lukashenko, Belarus' dictator of the past 26 years.
It is clear the abduction was an act of state-sponsored terror, whose express aim was to arrest Protasevich. 
Lukashenko ordered Belarusian air traffic controllers to alert Flight 737 there was a suspected bomb on board, and 
then sent a MiG-29 fighter to escort the plane to the ground. Once it had landed, Protasevich was swiftly arrested. 
As he was being led away, he nervously whispered to other passengers, "They will execute me here." His present 
whereabouts are unknown. 
In political risk terms, let us be clear on what just happened here. Russian President Vladimir Putin lurks behind 
Lukashenko's thuggish behavior. Following the mass protests of last summer in Minsk and other cities, Lukashenko 
is utterly beholden to Putin for his political, economic, and even personal survival. He would never have 
impersonated Blackbeard without the Kremlin's backing. 
Belarus' act of aviation piracy and kidnapping proves the obvious: anyone can bully the EU
Second, Putin and Lukashenko have found yet another chance to highlight the EU's glaring strategic limitations. An 
Irish plane, flying from Greece to Lithuania (all EU member states) was hijacked and a political prisoner, sheltered 
by Brussels, was forcibly removed from its sovereign sway. 
The immediate response was just as one would expect: useless. Commission President Ursula von der Leyen 
bleated that the piracy was "utterly unacceptable," and the "outrageous and illegal behavior of the regime in Belarus 
will have consequences,' without once spelling out what they might be. 
The Lithuanian Prime Minister, Ingrida Simonyte, was even more anemic, meekly noting, "The unprecedented 
situation will have to be investigated very thoroughly." Given these pathetic responses to an obvious act of state-
sponsored piracy, does anyone wonder why pirates might decide to hijack one of the EU's airliners?
The first duty of any government is the protection of its citizens. Yet a planeload of Europeans were thrown into 
grave danger and the response was only a promise of a "thorough investigation". As to the consequences, will they 
amount to anything more than the usual ineffectual sanctions, and the snubbing of Belarusian officials at EU 
cocktail parties? The EU is worse than unserious; it is decadent. 
Long allergic to military power or even to thinking in strategic terms, the EU's analytical misreading of the world 
makes it a born victim. For years, we have heard how the EU is a post-modern power, how it has transcended the 
nation-state, somehow evolving beyond old-fashioned balance of power thinking, grubby national interests, and the 
fact that in an anarchic world the threat of force is a necessary tool to protect one's people. 
Of course, this utopian nonsense has fooled no one but the EU's own doe-eyed acolytes. The master realist Putin is 
well aware that the rules of the international system have changed little from the time of the Greeks. The world is 
not a debating society; sticks are needed as well as carrots to leverage opponents and allies alike to attain national 
interests. 
The EU talks incessantly of carrots, of the economic tool of power, but almost never of sticks. That would be fine if 
the world were populated entirely by rabbits. As Lukashenko's act of terror has made clear, it is not. Instead, it is 
often populated by pirates. 
There are many reasons the EU is a declining great power. Its sclerotic long-term growth rate, overly-cosseted 
safety net, tangle of bureaucratic rules, and merely the perpetual difficulty in getting 27 different countries to agree 
on more than an ice cream flavour all explain its obvious decline. But, not least of all, its otherworldly view of the 
lack of need for force in an unruly world has hastened its downfall. 
The post Belarus' act of aviation piracy and kidnapping proves the obvious: anyone can bully the EU  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 25, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to create 500 new London jobs in winter expansion
Ryanair to create 500 new London jobs in winter expansion
Cityam.com
August 31, 2021 Tuesday 1:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 457 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Ryanair will create more than 500 new jobs across its London airports this winter as the budget airline 
looks toThe post Ryanair to create 500 new London jobs in winter expansion appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair will create more than 500 new jobs across its London airports this winter as the budget airline looks to take 
advantage of the recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic.
The carrier will launch a combined 14 new routes over the season from Stansted, Luton, and Gatwick to a number 
of European destinations.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said that the carrier was on track to hit 100m passengers in 2021, with monthly 
passenger numbers set to hit pre-Covid levels in November.
The airline carried 10.5m passengers in August, which O'Leary said was about 80 - 85 per cent of pre-pandemic 
levels.
Next summer Ryanair is due to take delivery of 60 new Boeing 737 Max aircraft, which O'Leary said would enable 
the carrier to snap up the free capacity in the market.
With both Thomas Cook and Flybe having gone bust in recent years, he said that the amount of short-haul capacity 
in Europe would be 20 per cent lower than pre-pandemic.
"Only we have the new deliveries to take up the capacity", he told a press conference. 
By 2025, the carrier is targeting flying 200m passengers a year. In 2019, it carried a record 149m passengers.
The Irishman called for the government to scrap Air Passenger Duty (APD) on short-haul travel for "at least" the 
duration of the pandemic.
Ryanair to create 500 new London jobs in winter expansion
"APD makes UK airports uncompetitive against lower cost EU airports. While Ryanair is committed to its London 
airports, the lack of government support for aviation and tourism recovery creates further barriers to trade and 
growth."
He also said that the UK should join the EU's digital Covid "vaccine passport" in order to encourage more European 
passengers to visit the country over the winter period.
"Americans and Asians are not going to come to the UK this winter, so we need to encourage Europeans to do so 
instead.
"We have to make it easier [for them to come]. Pissing about with all these PCR tests... is nonsensical."
He said that there should be no travel restrictions for anyone who had been fully vaccinated.
Despite 18 months of travel disruption, O'Leary said that the carrier would not need to raise more cash over the 
winter period.
                                            BA Gatwick move the 'definition of insanity'                                        
Last week British Airways confirmed that it was exploring plans to set up a new short-haul carrier at Gatwick.
Commenting on the move, O'Leary said that the move was the "definition of insanity".
"It is the third or fourth time BA have tried to do this... It will never successfully set up a low-cost carrier at Gatwick."
He added that it was far cheaper to run short-haul flights out of airports like Stansted and Luton.
The post Ryanair to create 500 new London jobs in winter expansion  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 31, 2021
End of Document
Easyjet mulls over compensation following airports’ caps
Easyjet mulls over compensation following airports’ caps
Cityam.com
July 26, 2022 Tuesday 11:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 427 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Easyjet is mulling over compensation after airports around Europe introduced daily passenger caps to 
cope with the ongoing travel chaos. Chief executive Johan Lundgren told journalists it was “clearly something that 
we will be discussing individually with our partner operators” but refused to lay out further details.  Airports used by 
Gatwick such as Gatwick and [...]The post Easyjet mulls over compensation following airports’ caps appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Easyjet is mulling over compensation after airports around Europe introduced daily passenger caps to cope with the 
ongoing travel chaos. 
Chief executive Johan Lundgren told journalists it was “clearly something that we will be discussing individually with 
our partner operators” but refused to lay out further details. 
Airports used by Gatwick such as Gatwick and Amsterdam’s Schiphol were forced earlier this summer to cut 
services in a bid to avoid more delays and disruption for passengers. 
The West Sussex hub was forced to cut daily flights from an average of more than 900 to 825 and 850 in July and 
August respectively. 
Meanwhile, the Dutch airport cut daily July passengers to 67,500, ramping up numbers to 72,500 for August. 
Heathrow also caused a stir when it capped the daily number of departing passengers to 100,000. 
Aviation analyst Sally Gethin told City A.M. Easyjet potentially asking for compensation could be a “risky move,” as 
the UK Government has called for cooperation between all parties.
“So for Easyjet to seek financial redress from Gatwick Airport could be seen as confrontational and uncooperative 
and contradictory to regulatory and government policy,” she said. 
“It would also set a precedent in Europe triggering potential compensation claims at Heathrow and Amsterdam 
Schiphol by other airlines.”
Easyjet mulls over compensation following airports’ caps
In the three months ended 30 June, Easyjet posted a loss of £133m due to the recent travel disruption.
The low-cost airline had a pre-tax loss of £114m due to the impact of cancellations, but its EBITDAR was a profit of 
£103m, down 67 per cent on 2019 levels. 
The chief executive blamed it on “the unprecedented ramp up across the aviation industry, coupled with a tight 
labour market.”
Lundgren added that EU-wide labour shortages were heightened by post-Brexit immigration regulations. 
“The level of people the industry is recruiting has become smaller partly because we don’t have the same amount of 
EU nationals available [and that] it’s a big difference,” he said. 
“[Labour shortages] are not unique to the UK, I just think the issues here are bigger than they are across Europe.”
To fix the situation, the aviation executive said, industry stakeholders should stop pointing the finger at one another. 
“It’s pretty pointless to start pointing the finger across the whole ecosystem,” Lundgren added. “There is no one 
across the aviation industry who didn’t feel the pressure.”
Read more
Heathrow’s boss slams Ryanair’s comments as ‘ridiculous’
The post Easyjet mulls over compensation following airports’ caps  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2022
End of Document
Lufthansa warns travel chaos ‘unlikely to improve’ in the coming weeks
Lufthansa warns travel chaos ‘unlikely to improve’ in the coming weeks
Cityam.com
June 28, 2022 Tuesday 12:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 281 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Lufthansa has warned the ongoing travel chaos is “unlikely to improve in the coming weeks,” as labour 
shortages and soaring levels of passenger demand rampage through Europe. “The ramp-up of complex air 
transport system from almost zero to now almost 90 per cent is clearly not proceeding with the reliability, the 
robustness and the punctuality [...]The post Lufthansa warns travel chaos ‘unlikely to improve’ in the coming weeks 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Lufthansa has warned the ongoing travel chaos is “unlikely to improve in the coming weeks,” as labour shortages 
and soaring levels of passenger demand rampage through Europe.
“The ramp-up of complex air transport system from almost zero to now almost 90 per cent is clearly not proceeding 
with the reliability, the robustness and the punctuality that we would like to offer you again,” chief executive Carsten 
Spohr wrote today in a letter to customers. 
“We can only apologise to you for this.”
The chief executive said labour shortages at both infrastructure partners such as airports and ground handling 
services as well as at Lufthansa itself for the current situation.
“The ongoing war in Ukraine is severely restricting available airspace in Europe [and] this is leading to massive 
bottlenecks in the skies and thus, unfortunately, to further flight delays,” Spohr added. 
To ensure smoother operations, a few weeks ago Lufthansa axed more than 900 July flights departing on Fridays to 
Sundays. 
Cancellations at the airlines’ main hubs of Frankfurt and Munich totalled 2,200. 
The German executive’s words echoed those of Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary, who last week said 
passengers would continue to have a “less than satisfactory experience” during peak season, especially at large 
airports.
Lufthansa warns travel chaos ‘unlikely to improve’ in the coming weeks
“This problem is going to continue particularly at airports like Gatwick and Heathrow right throughout the summer,” 
O’Leary said last week. “It will be worse at weekends and better during the week.”
Read more
Brits suffer weekend travel chaos as RMT goes ahead with third strike
The post Lufthansa warns travel chaos ‘unlikely to improve’ in the coming weeks  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 28, 2022
End of Document
Bill Gates-backed fund invest $15bn in clean tech as aviation industry eyes 'green' fuels
Bill Gates-backed fund invest $15bn in clean tech as aviation industry eyes 
'green' fuels
Cityam.com
January 10, 2022 Monday 2:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 306 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Bill Gates-backed fund Breakthrough Energy Capital (BEC) has tabled plans to invest $15bn into clean 
technology projects in the US, EU and UK. The eye-watering sum will be pushed towards green hydrogen, aviation 
fuel, energy storage technology and cleaning polluted air. "We are actually trying to demonstrate which technical 
path is most effective," BEC managing [...]The post Bill Gates-backed fund invest $15bn in clean tech as aviation 
industry eyes 'green' fuels appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Bill Gates-backed fund Breakthrough Energy Capital (BEC) has tabled plans to invest $15bn into clean technology 
projects in the US, EU and UK.
The eye-watering sum will be pushed towards green hydrogen, aviation fuel, energy storage technology and 
cleaning polluted air.
"We are actually trying to demonstrate which technical path is most effective," BEC managing director Jonah 
Goldman told the Financial Times. 
Read more
UK's green tax burden to increase by 40 per cent during Johnson's premiership
The Gates-founded fund plans to unlock the billions by leveraging financial structures and partnership agreements, 
Goldman added.
The cash will be split into three types of capital - charitable donations, submarket equity investments and product 
off-take contracts - and will be pumped into large-scale projects that would struggle to be funded elsewhere. 
It comes as EasyJet partners looks to develop a greener propulsion system for its commercial aircrafts  - marking 
the appetite for green hydrogen and low-carbon fuels.
Bill Gates-backed fund invest $15bn in clean tech as aviation industry eyes 'green' fuels
It forms part of the budget carrier's ambition to achieve net-zero emissions flying across the UK and Europe.
Fellow carrier Ryanair last year joined the "Fuelling Flight Initiative", in the push for greener fuels. 
Ryanair's director of sustainability, Tom Fowler, said at the time that "Sustainable Aviation Fuels are a key 
component of airlines' efforts on the road to carbon-neutrality. 
"A transparent and future-proof regulatory framework for SAFs can support and equip airlines in their fight against 
climate change, and we are proud to be part of this initiative."
Read more
Mayday: Year from hell in aviation as empty flights crash-land by staggering 71 per cent from pre-pandemic levels
The post Bill Gates-backed fund invest $15bn in clean tech as aviation industry eyes 'green' fuels  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 10, 2022
End of Document
Lack of support is untenable, and the Chancellor must know it
Lack of support is untenable, and the Chancellor must know it
Cityam.com
October 16, 2021 Saturday 10:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 342 words
Byline: Andy Silvester
Highlight: The Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has played a bad hand very well since taking the job in February 2020, 
just as news of a strange and mysterious virus was beginning to bother the front pages. It has helped that he has 
been playing with the equivalent of house money - borrowing huge sums in what became, [...]The post Lack of 
support is untenable, and the Chancellor must know it appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has played a bad hand very well since taking the job in February 2020, just as news 
of a strange and mysterious virus was beginning to bother the front pages.
It has helped that he has been playing with the equivalent of house money - borrowing huge sums in what became, 
effectively, the closest thing we've had to a genuine national war effort since 1945.He is now facing a new set of 
challenges.
Over the past few days, calls have come from just about every consumer-focussed industry in the land for more 
support as we navigate what is effectively lockdown-lite.
It has been labelled a lockdown by stealth, but the evidence is fairly obvious: empty pubs, shuttered restaurants, 
suspiciously cheap airline tickets.
Read more
Ryanair mocks absent Chancellor with 'come back to help out' tweet
This newspaper as much as any has been keen to point out that Covid-19 cannot become an excuse for spending 
as if there's no tomorrow.
There are hard choices to be made in the future. But that doesn't mean the Government can simply turn the taps off 
whilst pulling the plug out at the same time.
Lack of support is untenable, and the Chancellor must know it
The current situation, in which vast swathes of the economy have effectively been kneecapped by government 
policy and rhetoric but have not received any new financial support, is untenable.
Being in California was not the best look for the Chancellor, and he's wise to have come home and to have, finally, 
acknowledged the tough environment these businesses are operating in.
He is right to instinctively balk at further spending that will leave borrowing yet higher. But the risk of losing 
thousands of businesses across the country, due to government decisions, is of far greater import.
The recovery eggs in the UK have effectively been placed in the consumer spending bucket. The Chancellor must 
ensure there is somewhere for us to spend our savings windfall when we are released from our interminable 
lockdown purgatory - whenever that may be.
The post Lack of support is untenable, and the Chancellor must know it  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
EU 'ghost flights' can generate up to 2.1m tonnes of CO2
EU 'ghost flights' can generate up to 2.1m tonnes of CO2
Cityam.com
January 26, 2022 Wednesday 11:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 337 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: European 'ghost flights' could produce up to 2.1 million tonnes of CO2 this winter, according to a recent 
Greenpeace analysis. "Transport emissions are skyrocketing," Herwig Schuster, a spokesperson for Greenpeace's 
European Mobility for All campaign, told the Guardian. "It would be irresponsible of the EU not to take the low-
hanging fruit of ending ghost flights [...]The post EU 'ghost flights' can generate up to 2.1m tonnes of CO2 appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
European 'ghost flights' could produce up to 2.1 million tonnes of CO2 this winter, according to a recent 
Greenpeace analysis. 
"Transport emissions are skyrocketing," Herwig Schuster, a spokesperson for Greenpeace's European Mobility for 
All campaign, told the Guardian. 
"It would be irresponsible of the EU not to take the low-hanging fruit of ending ghost flights and banning short-haul 
flights where there's a reasonable train connection."
The question of ghost flights emerged in mid December when Lufthansa's chief executive Carsten Spohr told 
German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung the airline was forced to operate around 18,000 half-
empty flights just to retain its slots. 
In the following weeks, Spohr's comments sparked a debate, as low-cost carriers such as Ryanair and Wizz Air 
lambasted Lufthansa's "crocodile tears", pushing for legacy airlines to sell their slots if unable to use them, City 
A.M. reported. 
"If Lufthansa doesn't want to operate "ghost flights" to protect its slots, then simply sell these seats at low fares, and 
help accelerate the recovery of short and long haul air travel to and from Europe," said Ryanair's Michael O'Leary. 
Under EU rules, airlines are required to use a certain percentage of their airport slots to retain them the following 
year. Before the pandemic, the requirement was 80 per cent but it was since dialled back. As the industry started to 
EU 'ghost flights' can generate up to 2.1m tonnes of CO2
recover, the European Commission decided to bring the ratio up from 0 to 50 per cent, eventually pushing it to 64 
per cent. 
"The objective of the EU slot relief is to ensure that airlines can retain their historic slots without having to fly empty 
flights when health restrictions prevent passengers from travelling," a Commission spokesperson told City A.M on 
12 January. "Empty flights are bad for the economy and the environment."
Read more
UK passenger demand surges following restrictions easing, Wizz Air boss says
The post EU 'ghost flights' can generate up to 2.1m tonnes of CO2  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 26, 2022
End of Document
Shapps says Covid travel testing regime has 'outlived its usefulness'
Shapps says Covid travel testing regime has 'outlived its usefulness'
Cityam.com
January 6, 2022 Thursday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 267 words
Byline: Lily Russell-Jones
Highlight: The current Covid testing regime for people entering England has "outlived its usefulness" according to 
Transport Secretary Grant Shapps.The post Shapps says Covid travel testing regime has 'outlived its usefulness' 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The current Covid testing regime for people entering England has "outlived its usefulness" according to Transport 
Secretary Grant Shapps.
Under rule changes coming later this week travellers will be able to replace a day two PCR test with a lateral flow 
test and pre-departure testing will be scrapped. 
"If you take a lateral flow test and get your result immediately, rather than waiting a day or sometimes more then 
you can act faster on it and the action of course is immediate," Shapps said in comments to the BBC. "In some 
senses we will get to knowing that result quicker."
Shapps said that the public should do away with the idea that Britain is a "safe haven, but the rest of the world is 
dangerous."
"Omicron is everywhere," Shapps said. "We have very large numbers of Omicron cases here there are a large 
numbers of cases elsewhere. We are an international country we need to be able to travel."
When rule changes come into effect on Friday unvaccinated passengers will need to continue to take a pre-
departure test, PCR tests on day two and day eight, and self-isolate for 10 days.
Airline companies cheered news that the testing regime will be relaxed for vaccinated flyers.
EasyJet chief executive Johan Lundgren said the changes would make travel "much simpler and easier", as 
customers could now book and travel with "confidence" the BBC first reported.
Shapps says Covid travel testing regime has 'outlived its usefulness'
                     Read more:                      Empty planes: Omicron onslaught and travel restrictions hit Ryanair's 
passenger number
The post Shapps says Covid travel testing regime has 'outlived its usefulness'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 6, 2022
End of Document
Château Capitoul is a delicious combination of rustic and luxurious￼
Château Capitoul is a delicious combination of rustic and luxurious￼
Cityam.com
July 5, 2022 Tuesday 7:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 805 words
Byline: Steve Dinneen
Highlight: Pulling up to Château Capitoul at night gives only the smallest hint towards what to expect. The pitch 
black countryside just outside of Narbonne on the Mediterranean coast gives way to a long, tree-lined approach, at 
the end of which rests an imposing, underlit neo-gothic Château, which wouldn’t look out of place on a windswept 
[...]The post Château Capitoul is a delicious combination of rustic and luxurious￼ appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Pulling up to Château Capitoul at night gives only the smallest hint towards what to expect. The pitch black 
countryside just outside of Narbonne on the Mediterranean coast gives way to a long, tree-lined approach, at the 
end of which rests an imposing, underlit neo-gothic Château, which wouldn’t look out of place on a windswept 
Yorkshire moor. 
Come morning that countryside reveals itself to be endless, rolling vineyards, beautifully framed by my shuttered 
third storey window. Château Capitoul is several things at once: there’s the aforementioned Château, essentially a 
boutique hotel of its own, with eight rooms connected by a central staircase complete with chandeliers and original 
art. 
There’s also a 44-villa “hamlet”, with rooms varying in size from “very comfortable indeed” to “absolutely bloody 
massive”. Some come with their own plunge pools, every room is en suite, and they’re all built to make the most of 
the views across the vineyards to the Pyrenees or down to the ocean, which is a 10 minute drive away. 
Read more
Welcome (back) to Ibiza, as the Balearic prepares for its biggest summer yet
Then there’s the working vineyard, winery and wine shop, where a range of bottles are produced, aged and sold. 
Renowned hoteliers Karl O’Hanlon and Anita Forte are beyond the project, having already seen huge success with 
sister properties Château Les Carrasses and Château St-Pierre de Serjac, both of which are nearby. 
                     How do you get there?                   
Château Capitoul is a delicious combination of rustic and luxurious￼
Capitoul is a 40 minute drive from Béziers airport, a tiny, one terminal affairserviced by Ryanair,  who practically 
give away tickets on this route (there are some listed for this week for £21 return). ToulouseBlagnac airport isn’t 
much further, and Capitoul can arrange a car from either. Alternatively, you can catch the TGV from Paris, which 
will take a little under five hours but is a beautiful and relaxing way to travel. You could link up from the Eurostar, or, 
as I did, spend some time in the capital before heading south. 
                     What’s it like?                   
Château Capitoul is almost incongruously luxurious compared to the working vineyards that surround it. Everything 
from the huge, sunbaked terrace to the infinity pool to the ever-present hiss of cicadas draw your attention out 
towards the vines, and a walk through the wild-looking but carefully planned gardens – designed by James Basson, 
if you’re into that kind of thing – to inspect the grapes yourself is a must. 
Rooms in the chateau are in keeping with the rustic surroundings – mine featured views across to the mountains 
and plush velvet furniture, all intercut by dramatic wooden beams. It also came with a free-standing bath, which is 
the ideal location to sample the local produce. 
The villas are more modern – the epitome of neutral-hued sophistication. Built around facilities including a pétanque 
alley and tennis courts, it reminded me of something from JG Ballad’s novel Super Cannes, only with fewer 
murders. 
The villas and the Château sandwich the modern reception area, which also houses the main restaurant. 
                     What about the food?                   
After breakfast Asado becomes a Mediterranean grill; I had an excellent grilled cuttlefish one afternoon and an 
equally well prepared lamb chop the next. The French don’t mess this stuff up. 
But if you want something special, you’ll want to try the fine dining restaurant Mediterraneo, where chef Valere 
Diochet creates a pan-Mediterranean tasting menu using whatever he can find locally. There are the usual 
spherifications and emulsifications but the result is surprisingly restrained, simple dishes made in inventive ways. It 
only opened a few months ago but this is a Michelin star in the waiting – and at €90 for seven courses (plus the 
rest), it’s not unreasonable, either. 
                     What else?                   
You can arrange to hire a bike or jump in the car and drive to the beach but I opted to stay on-site, taking a tour of 
the vineyard and then tasting the produce myself. You can tailor a tasting to your tastes and wallet – I sampled the 
current range and finished with a splash of the 2003 La Clape, one of the most notable vintages of recent times. I 
recommend doing the tasting before dinner so you can order from the wine list with authority. 
Elsewhere you can book a massage at the subterranean spa, wander the vineyards, or simply lie by the pool, 
listening to the cicadas and watching the grapes grow. 
                     Need to know                   
An overnight stay in a hotel room at Château Capitoul is from €220 on a B&B basis. For further information visit 
www.chateaucapitoul.com or call +33 (0) 448 22 07 24.
The post Château Capitoul is a delicious combination of rustic and luxurious￼  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 5, 2022
End of Document
CMA slaps BMW with fine for not complying with probe request
CMA slaps BMW with fine for not complying with probe request
Cityam.com
December 8, 2022 Thursday 12:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 203 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The Competition and Markets Authority has slapped BMW with a £30,000 fine for not complying with an 
information request. The watchdog – which has also added a daily penalty of £15,000 – believes the German 
marque is withholding information regarding a probe from earlier this year.  Launched in March, the investigation 
focused on suspected anti-competitive [...]The post CMA slaps BMW with fine for not complying with probe request 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The Competition and Markets Authority has slapped BMW with a £30,000 fine for not complying with an information 
request. 
The watchdog – which has also added a daily penalty of £15,000 – believes the German marque is withholding 
information regarding a probe from earlier this year. 
Launched in March, the investigation focused on suspected anti-competitive practices related to the recycling of old 
and written-off vehicles. 
“The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) believes that important aspects of the suspected conduct were 
agreed outside the UK and implemented in the UK,” it said in a statement. 
According to the regulator, BMW “failed to comply fully” with its legal request, claiming the CMA doesn’t have 
jurisdiction – an argument that was rejected by the watchdog. 
BMW was approached for comment. 
Around the same time as the CMA probe, the European Commission  launched an investigation into car 
manufacturers over a possible breach of cartel laws. 
This led to the likes of Renault, Ford and Stellantis being investigated. 
Read more
CMA slaps BMW with fine for not complying with probe request
Ryanair: O’Leary’s contract extended until 2028 as £86m bonus still on cards
The post CMA slaps BMW with fine for not complying with probe request  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 8, 2022
End of Document
Around 500 farmers with UK visas are trapped in Belarus after flight ban
Around 500 farmers with UK visas are trapped in Belarus after flight ban
Cityam.com
May 28, 2021 Friday 1:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 338 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Around 500 farmers from Belarus, who were recruited under a government visa scheme, have been left 
trapped in Belarus afterThe post Around 500 farmers with UK visas are trapped in Belarus after the flight ban 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Around 500 farmers from Belarus, who were recruited under a government visa scheme, have been left trapped in 
Belarus after the UK banned flights from the country this week.
Trying to help the UK with its summer harvest, farmworkers have been trying to find indirect flights from 
neighbouring countries to get to the UK, after Sunday's plane hijacking, according to the Telegraph.
Belarusian prime minister Alexander Lukashenko ordered a Ryanair flight to land on Sunday, using a fake bomb 
alert, to divert the Irish airliner to Minsk and detain dissident journalist Roman Protasevich, a critic of Lukashenko's 
regime.
The right-wing leader said that the 26-year-old journalist had been plotting a "bloody rebellion" against his regime, 
which many governments have rejected after a disputed election last year.
The news comes as the Belarusian leader prepared to meet Russian president Vladimir Putin at his Black Sea 
residence in Sochi, for talks on closer economic ties, according to the Kremlin.
For some farmers, the trip could be too expensive or difficult.
Ukraine closed its borders to incoming Belarus flights on Wednesday which would limit many rural workers to leave 
from Russia.
Around 150 workers already made it to the UK before the airspace troubles occurred. But another 500 are lined up 
for jobs in the UK and have visas ready to go.
Around 500 farmers with UK visas are trapped in Belarus after flight ban
The government has recruited some 30,000 foreign workers this year to come to the UK for agricultural work, up 
from 10,000 last year.
Many of the workers are coming from Belarus and Russia, where troubled economies have left farms receiving five 
applications for just one job.
The UK's lucrative visa gives each worker six months of work and a £300-a-week pay package, much more than 
what they could earn in Belarus for a similar job.
In countries like Belarus, money earnt abroad accounts for up to a third of GDP, with many going abroad and 
sending money back to their families.
The post Around 500 farmers with UK visas are trapped in Belarus after the flight ban  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 28, 2021
End of Document
Belarus claims detained journalist was plotting 'bloody rebellion'
Belarus claims detained journalist was plotting 'bloody rebellion'
Cityam.com
May 26, 2021 Wednesday 4:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 343 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: The president of Belarus has said that the journalist pulled off a plane that was grounded in Minsk had 
beenThe post Belarus president claims journalist pulled from plane was plotting a 'bloody rebellion' appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
The president of Belarus has said that the journalist pulled off a plane that was grounded in Minsk had been plotting 
a "bloody rebellion".
Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko went on to accuse the West of starting a "hybrid war" against him, in 
his first public comments since the incident on Sunday.
The Ryanair plane, which was bound for Lithuania, was forced to land in Minsk after Belarus claimed a bomb threat 
to the aircraft.
"As we predicted, our ill-wishers from outside the country and from inside the country changed their methods of 
attack on the state," Lukashenko told parliament.
"They have crossed many red lines and have abandoned common sense and human morals," he said, referring to 
a "hybrid war" without explaining what he meant by the comment.
Belarus has been subject to EU and US sanctions since Lukashenko cracked down on pro-democracy protests 
after a disputed election last year.
The leader has been in power since 1994 and faced weeks of mass protests last year after he was declared the 
winner of a presidential election that his opponents said was rigged.
However, his decision to intercept the international airliner in Belarusian airspace and detain 26-year-old journalist 
Roman Protasevich has pushed countries to be louder with their opposition.
Belarus claims detained journalist was plotting 'bloody rebellion'
"I simply plead with all the international community... please, world, stand up and help, I beg you so much because 
they will kill him," the journalist's mother told Polish broadcaster TVN.
Belarus denies it mistreats detainees, despite human rights groups claiming they have documented hundreds of 
cases of abuse and forced confessions since last year.
Europe's aviation regulator urged earlier today to avoid Belarus' airspace for safety reasons. The European Union 
has been mulling sanctions.
Meanwhile, Western governments, including the UK, have told their airlines to avoid the skies above Belarus  and 
have tabled plans to ban flights from the country.
The post Belarus president claims journalist pulled from plane was plotting a 'bloody rebellion'  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
Airline industry racked up £180bn collective net loss since pandemic
Airline industry racked up £180bn collective net loss since pandemic
Cityam.com
December 1, 2022 Thursday 2:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 275 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The airline industry has racked up a collective net loss of almost $220bn (£180bn) since the Covid 
pandemic began, according to recent research.  Analysis published today by analytics firm Cirium shows that 
revenues for the world’s airline groups went down by more than 50 per cent in 2020, ending 2021 still 40 per cent 
below [...]The post Airline industry racked up £180bn collective net loss since pandemic appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The airline industry has racked up a collective net loss of almost $220bn (£180bn) since the Covid pandemic 
began, according to recent research. 
Analysis published today by analytics firm Cirium shows that revenues for the world’s airline groups went down by 
more than 50 per cent in 2020, ending 2021 still 40 per cent below pre-pandemic levels. 
Despite several carriers – including British Airways’ owner IAG or Lufthansa – returning to black in the past few 
months, the overall industry is expected to post another loss for the whole of 2022. 
“If losses so far this year aren’t substantially added to, that would leave the airline industry with the overall net loss 
of nearly $220bn since the start of 2020,” said Cirium’s chief executive Jeremy Bowen. 
Carriers such as Easyet  were also hampered by disruption and compensation costs for this summer’s travel chaos, 
as thousands of people saw their journeys halted due to inadequate levels of staffing. 
The disruption witnessed over the past few months has also been at the centre of ongoing rows between airports 
and their carrier customers, with each side blaming the other for the delays and cancellations. 
Nevertheless, Bowen remains positive as he said the industry could break even in the second half of this year, “if 
we assume that there are no further shocks to the industry.”
European airline groups could be leading the way as traffic within western Europe has surged to 95 per cent of 
2019 levels.
Airline industry racked up £180bn collective net loss since pandemic
Read more
Ryanair to buy green aviation fuels from Shell but 2030 target remains unsure
The post Airline industry racked up £180bn collective net loss since pandemic  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 1, 2022
End of Document
Russia to set up 20 new military units in west to counter Nato's 'growing threat'
Russia to set up 20 new military units in west to counter Nato's 'growing 
threat'
Cityam.com
May 31, 2021 Monday 2:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 357 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: The Russian military will form 20 new units in the country's west this year to counter what it claims isThe 
post Russia to set up 20 new military units in west to counter Nato's 'growing threat' appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The Russian military will form 20 new units in the country's west this year to counter what it claims is a growing 
threat from Nato.
Defence minister Sergei Shoigu made the announcement at a meeting with top military officials. He pointed to a 
growing number of flights by US strategic bombers near Russia's borders, deployments of Nato warships and 
increasingly frequent and massive drills by alliance forces.
He charged that such actions "destroy the international security system and force us to take the relevant 
countermeasures".
"We will form another 20 units and formations in the Western Military District until the year's end," Shoigu said.
He added the military units in Western Russia have commissioned about 2,000 new pieces of weaponry this year.
Last month, a massive troop build-up in Russia's south and south-west near the Ukrainian border raised concerns 
in Ukraine and the West, which urged Moscow to withdraw its forces.
                     Crimea                   
Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula in 2014 following the ouster of the country's Moscow-friendly 
president and then threw its weight behind separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have 
been killed in seven years of fighting in eastern Ukraine.
Russia has recalled some troops from its western part after sweeping manoeuvres in April, but Mr Shoigu ordered 
them to leave their weapons behind for Russia's Zapad (West) 2021 military exercises in September.
Russia to set up 20 new military units in west to counter Nato's 'growing threat'
He noted that preparations for the exercises, which will be conducted jointly with Belarus, are now in their final 
stage and emphasised that the manoeuvres have an "exclusively defensive character".
Last week, Russia offered political support to its ally Belarus, which diverted a Ryanair plane flying from Greece to 
Lithuania on a ruse to arrest a dissident journalist. The European Union denounced the flight's diversion as piracy 
and responded by barring the Belarusian flag carrier from its airspace and advising European airlines to skirt 
Belarus's airspace.
The post Russia to set up 20 new military units in west to counter Nato's 'growing threat'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 31, 2021
End of Document
Wizz Air UK not affected by Covid-induced staff shortages
Wizz Air UK not affected by Covid-induced staff shortages
Cityam.com
April 13, 2022 Wednesday 11:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 357 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Wizz Air UK has not been affected the current wave of Covid infections that has forced other airlines to 
slash hundreds of flights, its managing director Marion Geoffroy said. "We haven't seen an increase in the number 
of infected employees and we haven't had to cancel any flights," she told City A.M. "But we have [...]The post Wizz 
Air UK not affected by Covid-induced staff shortages appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air UK has not been affected the current wave of Covid infections that has forced other airlines to slash 
hundreds of flights, its managing director Marion Geoffroy said.
"We haven't seen an increase in the number of infected employees and we haven't had to cancel any flights," she 
told City A.M. "But we have to be very humble with the crisis because it gets better and then it gets worse again."
Things for the Budapest-based airline have got better following the end of travel restrictions, with demand 
increasing in all the markets especially ahead of the Easter peak.
Wizz reported earlier this month that passenger demand in March peaked at 2.5 million at a load factor of 86.2 per 
cent.
"We absolutely see customer confidence is back and we see good bookings for the summer already," Geoffroy 
explained, while adding the airline will operate at 100 per cent of its capacity during the summer.
Although most airlines suffered substantial losses because of the pandemic, Wizz Air emerged as one of the 
carriers who exceed pre-Covid levels.
The company, Geoffroy said, entered Covid being "financially stable and sustainable" and seized every opportunity 
to expand its UK operations.
Capitalising on rivals' inability to maintain airport slots under EU and UK rules, Wizz acquired in December an 
additional 15 slots at Gatwick, while last week it opened its latest base in Cardiff.
Wizz Air UK not affected by Covid-induced staff shortages
"We are in the regions, we are in London, were are in all the segments and we keep growing," Geoffroy explained.
Alongside low-cost competitors such as Ryanair, the carrier lobbied against legacy airlines retaining their airport 
slots if unable to use them.
In January chief executive Jozsef Varadi called the practice "a way of distorting the market."
Wizz Air's positive streak continued against the backdrop of the war in Ukraine, which forced the airline to halt all 
operations.
"We eventually want to restart our operations, but it's a matter of when we believe the time is right," Geoffroy 
concluded.
Read more
EasyJet says vetting delays contribute to staff shortages
The post Wizz Air UK not affected by Covid-induced staff shortages  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 13, 2022
End of Document
Unacceptable: Airlines slammed for pandemic job cuts as travel crisis rages
Unacceptable: Airlines slammed for pandemic job cuts as travel crisis rages
Cityam.com
May 31, 2022 Tuesday 6:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 854 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Airports and airlines have been blamed for severely slashing staff roles amid the pandemic, as 
holidaymakers face lengthy queues and disruption. A government source has told The Times that delays and flight 
cancellations are "completely unacceptable" as Brits have been warned to expect more chaos ahead of 
the Platinum Jubilee bank holiday. "The simple fact is [...]The post Unacceptable: Airlines slammed for pandemic 
job cuts as travel crisis rages appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Airports and airlines have been blamed for severely slashing staff roles amid the pandemic, as holidaymakers face 
lengthy queues and disruption.
A government source has told The Times that delays and flight cancellations are "completely unacceptable" as Brits 
have been warned to expect more chaos ahead of the Platinum Jubilee bank holiday.
"The simple fact is that airlines and airports overcut staff during the pandemic, ignoring the fact that the billions of 
pounds of aid - including furlough - handed out by the government was meant to protect those very jobs," the 
source told the newspaper. 
"Operators are now struggling to meet increasingly busy schedules as we move towards the first Covid-free 
summer since 2019 - a wholly foreseeable surge in bookings that should have been adequately prepared for," they 
added.
Airlines and airports were running the risk of missing out on the rewards of a booming recovery of international 
travel, the source said.
But according to shadow financial secretary James Murray, the sector is not the only one to blame.
Murray accused the government of failing to step up and not preparing for the rise in travel demand.
Unacceptable: Airlines slammed for pandemic job cuts as travel crisis rages
"We've been warning for months throughout the Covid pandemic that you can't just let the airline industry and 
airports fall over, let them shed all of their staff, and then expect to get back on track when demand comes back 
after the pandemic," he told Sky News. 
"We were warning about this, trade unions were warning about this, employee representatives were saying 
throughout the Covid pandemic 'You need a sector-specific package to support the aviation sector', and now we're 
seeing what's happened because the Government hasn't prepared for what would obviously come next."
Murray's words echoed those of aviation analyst Sally Gethin who accused the government of playing the hero after 
abandoning the sector during the pandemic. 
"During aviation's darkest days in the pandemic, aviation was left out in the cold and suffered devastating financial 
and operational losses," she previously told City A.M. 
"The government abandoned the aviation sector in a crisis, but is now acting the hero coming to the rescue."
It comes after many angry holidaymakers took to social media yesterday to complain of long queues or cancelled 
getaways, including easyJet who today cancelled an additional 42 flights after axing more than 200 during the 
weekend. 
Angry travellers mocked the airline on social media, suggesting it should names for a future rebranding. 
"Should easyJet be renamed stayJet," joked one user while another posted a picture which read "difficultJet."
                     Should 
easyJet 
be 
renamed 
stayJet? 
@easyJet @Ryanair #easyJet #Gatwick #airportchaos https://t.co/92GOHq6HVn &mdash; The Skibbereen Eagle -   
(@theskibeagle) May 31, 2022                                           Time for a rebrand? 
#easyJet pic.twitter.com/CMVt1kaBsr &mdash; Vivian Woodell (@Cooperator1) May 31, 2022
TUI reportedly told hundreds of holidaymakers that their trip was cancelled.
Hundreds of TUI clients were told via text and email that their upcoming trip was no longer happening.
A spokesperson for TUI said: "We'd like to apologise to customers impacted by cancellations and delays this 
weekend, caused by various operational and supply chain issues.
"We'd like to reassure customers that we are doing everything we can to minimise delays and would like to thank 
them their patience and understanding during this time."
Yesterday, Birmingham airport warned passengers to arrive in time, as the hub is expecting a "busy platinum 
Jubilee weekend," while Heathrow said it reported a morning peak but queues were still flowing.
Commenting on the situation, Peter Davies, chief executive of aviation solutions provider Airline Management 
Group, said it was natural for demand to increase ahead of the Jubilee Bank Holiday.
"I think it's natural for people to go away on holiday. It's not a surprise that hotter weeks tend to be particularly busy 
- particularly in Jubilee week - and the fact we've been cooped up for a couple of years," he told LBC this morning. 
"So there was no surprise there that people would flock back and fly. Indeed, the bookings have been increasing for 
many months now. So it comes as no surprise."
Airlines and airports are not the only ones to report significant queues. 
Eurostar passengers complained today about being forced to wait in hour-long queues outside London St Pancras. 
Unacceptable: Airlines slammed for pandemic job cuts as travel crisis rages
"Thousands of people, queues snaking around the station, out into the street and back in again. Shocking 
mismanagement," one customer told the PA news agency, while another complained of "waiting outside in the 
rain."
"Unfortunately we had a technical fault on a train earlier this morning which meant we had to take it out of service," 
Eurostar said in a statement. 
"As a consequence, there are delays of 30-60 minutes on departure in London St Pancras."
Read more
Heathrow passengers brace for summer travel chaos as BA staff are expected to vote on strike action
The post Unacceptable: Airlines slammed for pandemic job cuts as travel crisis rages  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 31, 2022
End of Document
End of an era: Heathrow’s ‘extraordinary’ boss John Holland-Kaye to step down
End of an era: Heathrow’s ‘extraordinary’ boss John Holland-Kaye to step 
down
Cityam.com
February 2, 2023 Thursday 9:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 332 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: John Holland-Kaye is stepping down as Heathrow chief executive later this year, it has been announced. 
Holland-Kaye, who has been at the London airport’s helm since 2014, will stay in place until a replacement is found. 
The reasons behind his decision have not been revealed and the airport has declined to elaborate further on his 
[...]The post End of an era: Heathrow’s ‘extraordinary’ boss John Holland-Kaye to step down appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
 John Holland-Kaye is stepping down as Heathrow chief executive later this year, it has been announced.
Holland-Kaye, who has been at the London airport’s helm since 2014, will stay in place until a replacement is found. 
The reasons behind his decision have not been revealed and the airport has declined to elaborate further on his 
resignation.
Lord Deighton, Heathrow’s chair praised the chief executive for being “an extraordinary leader of Heathrow.”
“During the past nine years, he has worked tirelessly and collaboratively with shareholders, ministers, airlines and 
other stakeholders to ensure the country can be proud of its ‘front door’,” Lord Deighton added. 
“The board would like to put on record our gratitude to John for his dedication and commitment to Heathrow 
throughout his tenure as CEO.”
Over the past year the spat between the airport and airlines over charges has intensified.
Carriers have repeatedly accused Heathrow of downplaying its recovery to get a better deal from the Civil Aviation 
Authority (CAA) on the amount it can charge airline customers.
The charge, which is calculated using traveller numbers, was set at an interim of £31.57 per passenger earlier this 
week, angering carriers. 
End of an era: Heathrow’s ‘extraordinary’ boss John Holland-Kaye to step down
A spokesperson for Virgin Atlantic toldCity A.M. the charge – which was upped from last year’s £30.19 – was based 
on Heathrow “knowingly undercooked and self-serving passenger forecasts.”
While British Airways’ owner IAG said it was disappointing that the CAA hadn’t taken into account “the reality of 
higher traffic volumes, which ought to result in lower fares.”
Before becoming CEO in July 2014, Holland-Kaye was Heathrow’s development director, responsible for delivering 
the £2.5bn Terminal 2 projects on time and on budget.
Heathrow has always denied the accusations.
Read more
Flying start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on Ryanair and Wizz Air
The post End of an era: Heathrow’s ‘extraordinary’ boss John Holland-Kaye to step down  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 2, 2023
End of Document
Airlines stocks jump as Omicron concerns are shrugged off
Airlines stocks jump as Omicron concerns are shrugged off
Cityam.com
December 6, 2021 Monday 4:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 331 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The shares of several airlines - including British Airways' owner IAG, Easyjet and Ryanair - jumped 
today, as a result of carriers shrugging off concerns about the latest Covid variant, Omicron. Evidence showing the 
mild effects of Omicron, which has not yet caused any deaths, has led to IAG going up to 142.26p from a [...]The 
post Airlines stocks jump as Omicron concerns are shrugged off appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The shares of several airlines - including British Airways' owner IAG, Easyjet and Ryanair - jumped today, as a 
result of carriers shrugging off concerns about the latest Covid variant, Omicron.
Evidence showing the mild effects of Omicron, which has not yet caused any deaths, has led to IAG going up to 
142.26p from a bottom of 127.66p touched last Tuesday. Since 30 November, Ryanair's stocks have jumped 10.80 
per cent, while Easyjet registered a 10.96 per cent hike.
Despite last week's re-introduction of mandatory PCR tests for those coming into the country, carriers continued to 
remain positive. 
Speaking at London's World Aviation Festival, Ryanair DAC's chief executive Eddie Wilson said the airline's focus 
remained on next summer, City A.M. reported. 
"We were hoping that the demand curve would really get going in January once we got through Christmas but then 
that had been sort of T-boned by the travel restrictions but we're still optimistic about next summer, we can see it in 
terms of pent-up demand," he said. 
Wilson's words were echoed by other key players. After seeing encouraging signs for next summer, Easyjet's chief 
executive Johan Lundgren decided to adopt a more aggressive business strategy, buying slots at main hubs such 
as London Gatwick. 
Airlines' confidence didn't waiver even after the UK Government decided to re-introduce mandatory pre-departure 
tests for all those travelling to England from tomorrow morning. 
Airlines stocks jump as Omicron concerns are shrugged off
Calling the measures a "hammer blow" to "an already devastated industry," leading travel stakeholders slammed 
the restrictions. "Public safety is a priority, but businesses will fail, travellers will be stranded and livelihoods 
devastated by the lack of coherent plans from the government," said Clive Wratten, chief executive of the Business 
Travel Association. 
Read more
Travel industry in shock: Pre-departure tests for all UK arrivals from Tuesday
The post Airlines stocks jump as Omicron concerns are shrugged off  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 6, 2021
End of Document
Zelensky: Russia cannot be trusted to hold up grain deal after ‘barbaric’ Odessa strike
Zelensky: Russia cannot be trusted to hold up grain deal after ‘barbaric’ 
Odessa strike
Cityam.com
July 25, 2022 Monday 8:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 246 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight:  Ukraine’s president condemned Russia’s “barbarism” following a strike on Odessa, as he said the 
Kremlin cannot be trusted to observe a grain exportation deal.  President Volodymyr Zelenskiy hit out after 
Saturday’s attack by Moscow, in wake of an agreement facilitated by Turkey for Kyiv to resume exports from Black 
Sea ports like Odessa. The deal [...]The post Zelensky: Russia cannot be trusted to hold up grain deal after 
‘barbaric’ Odessa strike appeared first on CityAM.
Body
 Ukraine’s president condemned Russia’s “barbarism” following a strike on Odessa, as he said the Kremlin cannot 
be trusted to observe a grain exportation deal. 
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy hit out after Saturday’s attack by Moscow, in wake of an agreement facilitated by 
Turkey for Kyiv to resume exports from Black Sea ports like Odessa.
The deal signed by Moscow and Kyiv on Friday was hailed as a diplomatic breakthrough that would help curb 
soaring global food prices by restoring Ukrainian grain shipments to pre-war levels of 5 million tonnes a month, 
according to Reuters.
Ukraine’s military, quoted by broadcaster Suspilne, said Russian missiles did not hit the port’s grain storage area or 
cause significant damage.
Zelenskiy’s economic advisor, Oleh Ustenko, told Ukrainian television the strike “indicates that it will definitely not 
work like that”. Meanwhile, Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov said in a Facebook post. “We continue 
technical preparations for the launch of exports of agricultural products from our ports.” 
Zelensky said Ukraine could export 60 million tonnes of grain over the next nine months, but it would take up to 24 
months if its ports’ operations were disrupted. 
The war is now into its sixth month.
Zelensky: Russia cannot be trusted to hold up grain deal after ‘barbaric’ Odessa strike
Read more
Ryanair flies into first profit in years despite merciless Ukraine beating in already ‘fragile’ market
The post Zelensky: Russia cannot be trusted to hold up grain deal after ‘barbaric’ Odessa strike  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 25, 2022
End of Document
British Airways owner AIG buys 50 new 737 aircraft from Boeing
British Airways owner AIG buys 50 new 737 aircraft from Boeing
Cityam.com
May 19, 2022 Thursday 6:49 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 224 words
Byline: Louis Goss
Highlight: British Airways owner International Airlines Group (IAG) has struck a deal with Boeing to buy a fleet of 
50 new 737 Max planes. IAG said it had agreed to buy 25 of the 737 Max 8200 planes first ordered by low-cost 
airline Ryanair and another 25 of the 737 Max 10 aircraft, as well as [...]The post British Airways owner AIG buys 50 
new 737 aircraft from Boeing appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways owner International Airlines Group (IAG) has struck a deal with Boeing to buy a fleet of 50 new 737 
Max planes.
IAG said it had agreed to buy 25 of the 737 Max 8200 planes first ordered by low-cost airline Ryanair and another 
25 of the 737 Max 10 aircraft, as well as 100 options.
Although Boeing's 737-8200 usually sell for $120m and the aircraft maker's 737-10 planes usually sell for $130m, it 
is understood that IAG got a substantial discount on the list price.
The deal comes after Boeing's Max aircraft were grounded for two years, following a fatal crash in Ethiopia in 2019.
The Boeing 737-10 has 230 seats and is able to travel up to 6,110km. IAG is an Anglo-Spanish company formed 
out of the merger between British Airways and Iberia. 
The aircraft will be delivered to the Anglo-Spanish airliner over the net four years, between 2023 and 2027.
IAG chief executive Luis Gallego said: "The addition of new Boeing 737s is an important part of IAG s shorthaul 
fleet renewal."
"These latest generation aircraft are more fuel efficient than those they will replace and in line with our commitment 
to achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050."
Read more
Ryanair to revert to second-hand market if Boeing doesn't step up, warns O'Leary
British Airways owner AIG buys 50 new 737 aircraft from Boeing
The post British Airways owner AIG buys 50 new 737 aircraft from Boeing  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 19, 2022
End of Document
Airlines are so high up the pyramid of capitalism they no longer compete on price
Airlines are so high up the pyramid of capitalism they no longer compete on 
price
Cityam.com
May 24, 2023 Wednesday 6:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 752 words
Byline: Sascha O'Sullivan
Highlight: Airlines don't seem to care about fighting for the cheapest flights anymore. The post Airlines are so high 
up the pyramid of capitalism they no longer compete on price appeared first on CityAM.
Body
In November last year, an inverted pyramid of conspiracy theories went viral. Those at the bottom, at the tip of the 
upside down triangle, – those most grounded in reality – include “Big Tobacco lied about lung cancer” and “NSA 
mass surveillance”. The top, labelled the “antisemitic point of no return”, stretches from reptilian overlords, 
Holocaust denial, Illuminati and Nazis on the moon.
It’s a useful illustration of how extremism works, and builds, one layer creating the building blocks for the next. You 
could use a similar model for a less pernicious C word – capitalism. Right at the very top of a capitalist pyramid 
would be airlines. Since the pandemic, the cost of flying has soared, and the quality has plummeted.
The world’s first low-cost airline was Pacific Southwest Airlines, which started flights between Dallas, Houston and 
San Tanio in the US. It turned a profit for 47 consecutive financial years from 1973. The first year it made a loss 
was in the first year of the pandemic.
Since then, Virgin Air, Ryanair, Wizz Air, and almost countless others have been spawned from Southwest.
The quality of airlines like Wizz or Vueling is now so unreliable, so liable to be delayed or cancelled, that Easy jet, 
once fondly nicknamed “sleazy jet” for its cheap flights at ungodly hours from periphery airports, has almost been 
elevated to the likes of British Airways, which, itself, is long past its prime.
And yet, the costs keep going up. The airlines blame the pandemic, they blame the cost of fuel, they blame the 
airports, the striking staff.
Last week, in the same breath that they posted record profits of £1.26bn, Ryanair warned about a higher fuel bill 
and delays on new Boeing planes.
Airlines are so high up the pyramid of capitalism they no longer compete on price
Michael O’Leary, the chief executive, said the cost of flights would rise by 15 per cent over the summer.
Airlines aren’t so much as milking it as making their own-brand cool-aid and make us drink it (for a cost, of course). 
Where a carry-on bag was once a given, anything bigger than a handbag can now add £70 onto the cost of a flight 
to Europe.
Families, refusing to shell out to sit next to one another, frequently cause a mini-upheaval as they ask air hostesses 
to move everyone around to seat them together once they board.
This “unpackaging” model was once actually quite convenient. It meant those to whom large-carry on baggage or 
aisle seats was important, could pay to include it, without meaning the cost of all of this was bundled into the one 
set cost of a flight, allowing them to charge cheap prices for the basic rate. In other words, it enabled flexibility and 
consumer choice, all the things capitalism is known for achieving through competitive markets.
But the airlines have, in unison it seems, decided to treat this not as a useful model, but a kind of endless cash cow. 
The undercutting which was once the bread-and-butter of low-cost airlines has given way. I have little doubt there 
are rooms in the hallways of all the HQs of airlines where people semi-regularly pile in to figure out what they can 
charge extra for next.
Enter Qantas, the national carrier of Australia, and one of the most upmarket airlines, on par with British Airways or 
some of the better Asian carriers.
Qantas has said it expects to post a record underlying profit of up to AU$2.48bn, almost a billion dollars higher than 
its previous record in 2018.
Last week, the airline also announced a new feature: neighbour free flying. Instead of staring, fingers crossed, at 
the empty seat next to you, you can simply pay for it – like everything else on a plane. Between two days to an hour 
beforehand, customers can pay AU$65 (£35) to choose a seat without a neighbour. If the airline ends up filling the 
seat, they will issue a refund.
On one level, it’s ingenious. Where Qantas can’t fill the seats, they can still make some cash.
On the other hand, it’s a signal of just how far up the capitalism pyramid we have climbed.
Monopolies have long been blamed for high costs to consumers or unfair terms. The airline industry is rife with 
competition, especially in Europe. And yet, no one seems to be competing on price anymore. There seems to be 
some kind of tacit agreement between the big names that the creep of prices will continue, until, eventually, we find 
ourselves being charged to have a tray table. God only knows all we want is to be able to pay for a plane which 
arrives at all, let alone on time. 
The post Airlines are so high up the pyramid of capitalism they no longer compete on price  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 24, 2023
End of Document
Holiday companies urge Sunak to give aviation watchdog power to fine airlines
Holiday companies urge Sunak to give aviation watchdog power to fine 
airlines
Cityam.com
August 21, 2023 Monday 8:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 435 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: A group of holiday companies and the consumer group Which? have urged the Prime Minister to give 
the aviation regulator more powers to fine airlines for poor practice regarding refunds and cancellations. In a letter 
addressed to Rishi Sunak, travel companies including Thomas Cook, On the Beach and the Advantage Travel 
Partnership requested the government [...]
Body
A group of holiday companies and the consumer group Which? have urged the Prime Minister to give the aviation 
regulator more powers to fine airlines for poor practice regarding refunds and cancellations.
In a letter addressed to Rishi Sunak, travel companies including Thomas Cook, On the Beach and the Advantage 
Travel Partnership requested the government strengthen the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)’s enforcement powers 
against airlines’ “unlawful behaviour.”
The signatories have argued that airlines are “routinely failing” to uphold customers’ legal rights to refunds, re-
routing and general assistance when delays and cancellations occur.
The letter comes amid a summer disrupted by wildfires in Southern Europe and widespread cancellations at 
carriers including Easyjet and Ryanair due to industrial action and airspace restrictions on the continent.
Last week, figures from the CAA showed that almost a third of flights departing from UK airports were delayed or 
cancelled in the first five months of this year, up from just over 20 per cent pre-pandemic.
The letter claims that “thousands of UK citizens have again been left at risk of being stranded or out of pocket at a 
time when household finances are already squeezed.”
The CAA – the UK’s aviation watchdog – currently regulates the sector, but has no power to directly fine airlines 
who are breaking the rules. 
It can only apply to courts for an enforcement order intended to make airlines comply with existing laws.
Holiday companies urge Sunak to give aviation watchdog power to fine airlines
Other countries, meanwhile, have taken stringent action against airlines found to be breaking the law, with British 
airways recently fined $1.1m by the US government for failing to refund passengers during the pandemic. “In the 
UK, the aviation regulator is powerless to act similarly,” Which said.
Rocio Concha, Which? director of policy and advocacy, said: “Thousands of passengers have been subjected to 
unfair and in some cases unlawful treatment by airlines – and enough is enough.“We’re calling on the PM to show 
he is on the side of holidaymakers by giving the aviation regulator the power to issue substantial fines to airlines 
when they flout the law.”
Last month, the CAA took unprecedented action against ultra-low cost carrier Wizz Air, ordering it to review years of 
falsely rejected compensation claims, potentially costing the airline millions.
The CAA said it had “significant concerns” about the number of complaints from customers who believed Wizz Air 
had failed to meet its legal obligations to re-route passengers after a cancellation.
Read more
Wizz Air ordered to review years of falsely rejected compensation claims
Load-Date: August 21, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair wins third case against EU state aid as O'Leary's crusade goes on
Ryanair wins third case against EU state aid as O'Leary's crusade goes on
Cityam.com
June 9, 2021 Wednesday 11:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 263 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has now bagged a hat-trick of victories in his quest against European 
state aid for strugglingThe post Ryanair wins third case against EU state aid as O'Leary's crusade goes on 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has now bagged a hat-trick of victories in his quest against European state aid for 
struggling airlines during the pandemic.
Luxembourg's General Court, the EU's second highest court, today annulled the European Commission's decision 
to $550m in support to German charter airline Condor.
In its ruling, the court said that the decision to grant the aid contained "an inadequate statement of reasons" and 
thus was invalid.
However, due to the ongoing pandemic the court said that Condor, which used to be owned by Thomas Cook, 
would not have to pay back the aid.
Today's result is Ryanair's third such victory in a matter of weeks, as O'Leary, a fierce opponent of state aid, 
continues his crusade against such handouts.
He has warned that subsidies like those given out last year risk distorting the European aviation market.
In May, the General Court issued the same decisions against a combined $4.6bn in aid issued to KLM, the Dutch 
wing of Air France, and Portuguese carrier TAP.
Thus far, Ryanair has filed 16 cases against European airlines, including against Lufthansa and Air France.
Before the Open: Get the jump on the markets with our early morning newsletter
In a statement, the airline hailed the judgement.
Ryanair wins third case against EU state aid as O'Leary's crusade goes on
"If Europe is to emerge from this crisis with a functioning single market, the European Commission must stand up to 
national governments and stop rubberstamping discriminatory State aid to inefficient national airlines," it said.
The post Ryanair wins third case against EU state aid as O'Leary's crusade goes on  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 9, 2021
End of Document
SECOND CAN TURN THIRD INTO FIRST THIS TIME AROUND
SECOND CAN TURN THIRD INTO FIRST THIS TIME AROUND
Cityam.com
April 7, 2022 Thursday 4:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 859 words
Byline: Bill Esdaile
Highlight: Bill Esdaile's Grand National 1-2-3-4-5 Any Second Now Run Wild Fred Delta Work Longhouse Poet  
Fortescue BUSINESS as usual. That's the message from Aintree as the crowds flock back in their thousands after 
last year's 'behind-closed-doors' Randox Grand National. However, one notable absentee this year is Tiger 
Roll, who will not be bidding for a historic [...]The post SECOND CAN TURN THIRD INTO FIRST THIS TIME 
AROUND appeared first on CityAM.
Body
                     Bill Esdaile's Grand National 1-2-3-4-5                   
                                                                     Any Second Now                                                                       Run Wild 
Fred                                                                       Delta Work                   
Longhouse Poet                                                                        Fortescue                                                               
BUSINESS as usual. That's the message from Aintree as the crowds flock back in their thousands after last year's 
'behind-closed-doors' Randox Grand National.
However, one notable absentee this year is Tiger Roll, who will not be bidding for a historic third win in the world's 
most famous race as connections opted to retire him last month. 
Gigginstown House Stud, the racing operation of Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary, still run five in the race, headed by 
DELTA WORK who memorably denied Tiger Roll his fairy-tale swansong at the Cheltenham Festival. 
He seemed to come alive over the quirky cross-country fences last month and brings a backlog of form that has 
seen him mix it with the very best.
Don't forget he was good enough to finish fifth in a Cheltenham Gold Cup a couple of years ago and this step up in 
trip may be just what he's been crying out for. 
The combination of class and stamina means he has to be on any shortlist, while every drop of rain that falls will 
help his chances. 
SECOND CAN TURN THIRD INTO FIRST THIS TIME AROUND
Gigginstown saddle four others including Samcro, Coko Beach, Death Duty and RUN WILD FRED.
Despite being a former Cheltenham Festival winner, Samcro looks a shadow of his former self and this trip should 
prove too much.
Coko Beach may be out of his depth too, while Death Duty is interesting if the ground got really soft. 
Run Wild Fred is ridden by Tiger Roll's jockey Davy Russell and is ultra-consistent.
The eight-year-old has finished runner-up in six of his last seven starts, but they include silver medals in both the 
Irish Grand National and the National Hunt Chase at Cheltenham. 
He can be backed each-way at 25/1 and looks a lively outsider as he jumps and stays well. 
Last year's winner Minella Times is back for more under his record-breaking pilot Rachael Blackmore. 
He's failed to complete his two starts this campaign and life is a lot tougher off a 15lbs higher mark. 
                     ANY SECOND NOW ran a gallant race last year to finish third behind Minella Times having been 
badly hampered by a faller at the 12th fence. 
He's 7lbs higher than last season but meets the winner on 8lbs better terms and arrives here in great form.
He gave weight and a beating to another of today's rivals in Escaria Ten last time and he looks sure to run his race.
Ted Walsh won this race back in 2000 with Papillon so knows how to ready one for this and he gets the vote at 10/1 
with William Hill. 
Another trainer with previous in this race is Martin Brassil, who saddled 2005 winner Numbersixvalverde.
That horse had landed the previous year's Thyestes Chase, and he'll be hoping his LONGHOUSE POET can do 
something similar tomorrow. 
The eight-year-old has only had six starts over fences, but both times he's been handed a three-mile plus 
assignment he's been successful.
In December 2020, he beat another of my fancies, Run Wild Fred, in a beginners chase over 3m1f at Punchestown 
on heavy ground, showing that stamina is his forte.
He was off the track for a year after that and following a pipe-opener at Limerick over Christmas he beat Franco De 
Port to give his trainer a second Theystes in January.
Once again, he was strongest at the finish and even though he would prefer the ground to be a bit softer than it 
probably will be tomorrow, he looks the right type for this test.
The make-up of the Grand National has changed since the important changes were implemented a few years ago.
It isn't as much of a test as it was and that has seen eight-year-olds win four of the last six renewals.
Irish-trained horses have also won four of the last five renewals, so this son of Yeats ticks plenty of boxes and looks 
a good each-way bet at around 16/1.
Big-priced horses have a habit of sneaking into the places in the National and there are plenty to consider amongst 
the 40 runners this year.
Blaklion has danced every dance here and would be a great bet to finish in the first seven or eight, 2019 Ladbrokes 
Trophy winner De Rasher Counter is interesting back off the same mark and Kildisart is another I wouldn't be ruling 
out.
SECOND CAN TURN THIRD INTO FIRST THIS TIME AROUND
However, Henry Daly's FORTESCUE managed to sneak in at number 40 and I can see him running a very big 
race.
He is an excellent jumper and it was a career best last time out when he outstayed Fiddlerontheroof to win the 
Swinley Chase at Ascot.
Prior to that he was third to Royale Pagaille in the Peter Marsh Chase, beaten just three and a quarter lengths, 
which was another fine effort.
Unexposed over marathon distances and off just 10st 6lbs, he can still be backed at 40/1 which looks too big.
The post SECOND CAN TURN THIRD INTO FIRST THIS TIME AROUND  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 7, 2022
End of Document
FTSE 100 live: London index boosted by Shell ahead of today’s Bank of England rate decision
FTSE 100 live: London index boosted by Shell ahead of today’s Bank of 
England rate decision
Cityam.com
February 2, 2023 Thursday 8:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 369 words
Byline: Chris Dorrell
Highlight: The FTSE 100 opened higher on Thursday morning, boosted by a strong performance from Shell, as 
investors awaited the latest interest rate decision from the Bank of England later today.  Governor Andrew Bailey is 
expected to increase interest rates by 50bps to a post-financial crisis high of four per cent later today, although 
there is [...]The post FTSE 100 live: London index boosted by Shell ahead of today’s Bank of England rate decision 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The FTSE 100 opened higher on Thursday morning, boosted by a strong performance from Shell, as investors 
awaited the latest interest rate decision from the Bank of England later today. 
Governor Andrew Bailey is expected to increase interest rates by 50bps to a post-financial crisis high of four per 
cent later today, although there is an outside chance he will opt for a small 25 basis point rise. 
Investors think the Bank is nearing the end of its once in a generation rate hike cycle, betting that borrowing costs 
will peak at under 4.5 per cent.
Read more
When will the Bank of England, Federal Reserve and ECB start cutting interest rates? Sooner than you think
Despite the uncertainty, London’s premier index rose 0.3 per cent to 7,782.00 in early trading. The domestically-
focused mid-cap FTSE 250 index, which is more aligned with the health of the UK economy, opened 0.9 per cent 
higher at 20,084.74.
This was partly due to a strong performance from Shell,  which climbed 1.0 per cent after capping off a record year 
with bumper profits in the fourth quarter.
The oil giant also announced a fresh share buyback programme of £3.2bn ($4bn). 
FTSE 100 live: London index boosted by Shell ahead of today’s Bank of England rate decision
BT ’s stock slumped 2.7 per cent after it released quarterly earnings. 
Revenue in the three months to the end of December fell marginally which the firm put down to inflationary 
headwinds and legacy product declines.
The telecoms firm is aggressively targeting expansion of its high-speed internet capabilities. CEO Philip Jansen 
said “on full fibre, we’re building – and now connecting – like fury”.
Shares for low-cost carrier Wizz Air  soared this morning reporting a strong start to 2023, with passenger numbers 
well above 2022 levels. Passenger levels soared 73 per cent to 4.2 million.
Wizz Air’s share price climbed by 5.3 per cent following the impressive figures, which were matched by low-cost 
competitor Ryanair. 
The pound climbed 0.1 per cent against the dollar to trade at 1.2389 after the US Federal Reserve slowed the pace 
of its interest rate hikes last night. 
Read more
The Bank of England appears to have learnt from earlier mistakes
The post FTSE 100 live: London index boosted by Shell ahead of today’s Bank of England rate decision  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 2, 2023
End of Document
More than 14,000 flights departed from UK airports during Covid
More than 14,000 flights departed from UK airports during Covid
Cityam.com
February 23, 2022 Wednesday 12:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 292 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: New figures have revealed that more than 14,000 flights have departed from UK airports throughout the 
whole Covid pandemic. With 4,910 flights, Heathrow was crowned the airport with most ghost flights, while 
Manchester and Gatwick came in second and third place, with 1,548 and 1,044 flights respectively. The figures, 
which include cargo flights and those [...]The post More than 14,000 flights departed from UK airports during Covid 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
New figures have revealed that more than 14,000 flights have departed from UK airports throughout the whole 
Covid pandemic. 
With 4,910 flights, Heathrow was crowned the airport with most ghost flights, while Manchester and Gatwick came 
in second and third place, with 1,548 and 1,044 flights respectively. 
The figures, which include cargo flights and those used to repatriate Britons from abroad, amount to an average of 
25 planes per day.
"Departing flights may operate with a low number of passengers for a range of reasons," said Aviation minister 
Robert Courts. "Since the onset of the pandemic, the government has provided alleviation from the normal slot 
regulations that require airlines to operate 80 per cent of their slots in order to retain them for the following season.
"This means that airlines have not been required to operate empty or almost empty flights solely to retain their 
historic slots rights."
Airport slot has been a delicate subject for airports and carriers not only in the UK but all across Europe, as it made 
the headlines following a spat between low-cost carrier and legacy ones.
Wizz Air and Ryanair have lambasted Lufthansa's chief executive for saying the German carrier was forced to 
operate half-empty flights to retain its slots under EU rules, City A.M. reported. 
More than 14,000 flights departed from UK airports during Covid
Just like the EU, the British Government slashed airport slot rules when the pandemic started, but reintroduced a 50 
per cent cap in October 2021. Following the removal of all Covid restrictions - including travel ones - the 
Department for Transport (DfT) is expected to ramp up to 70 per cent.
Read more
Mandatory face masks on TfL scrapped from tomorrow
The post More than 14,000 flights departed from UK airports during Covid  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 23, 2022
End of Document
Heathrow raises passenger traffic forecasts following surge in demand
Heathrow raises passenger traffic forecasts following surge in demand
Cityam.com
June 23, 2022 Thursday 11:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 346 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Heathrow has raised its passenger number forecast for the year following an ongoing surge in travel 
demand. The hub has increased predictions to 54.4 million travellers – 2.6 per cent up on the 53.3 million forecast 
last moth – but said it was continuing to work with airlines to match supply and demand levels. “While [...]The post 
Heathrow raises passenger traffic forecasts following surge in demand appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Heathrow has raised its passenger number forecast for the year following an ongoing surge in travel demand.
The hub has increased predictions to 54.4 million travellers – 2.6 per cent up on the 53.3 million forecast last moth 
– but said it was continuing to work with airlines to match supply and demand levels.
“While we rebuild capacity from the pandemic, resources remain tight, in line with other airports in the UK and 
Europe,” the airport said in a statement. 
Heathrow is one of many airports across both the UK and EU to have experienced disruption because of a 
combination labour shortages and soaring levels of demand.
On Monday it was forced to ask airlines operating from terminal 2 and 3 to cut 10 per cent of flights after on Friday it 
reported significant luggage delays. 
Even though the new passenger outlook will lead to an increase in revenue and adjusted core profit, Heathrow 
expects operating costs to rise by 47 per cent to £1.22bn due to the surge in energy prices.
The airport’s decision to raise forecasts could prove Heathrow’s detractors – including BA’s owner IAG and Virgin 
Atlantic – right.
Airlines have accused the hub of downplaying the strength of the sector’s recovery to push for a higher price cap, 
which is the maximum amount large airports can charge their airline customers for using the facilities.
Heathrow raises passenger traffic forecasts following surge in demand
Virgin Atlantic’s chief executive Shai Weiss last month said Heathrow was “peddling flawed projections and 
downplaying the recovery of travel to justify a massive increase in charges.”
After its finances were hit by the pandemic, Heathrow lobbied the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) – for fees to go up 
from £19 per passenger to as high as £43 per passenger. 
To mediate between Heathrow and the airlines’ needs, the CAA set an interim cap at £30.19 while waiting until this 
summer to decide the price for the next five years, a move that left both sides unhappy. 
Read more
Travel mayhem to continue throughout the summer, says Ryanair’s boss
The post Heathrow raises passenger traffic forecasts following surge in demand  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 23, 2022
End of Document
Airline shares splutter as new EU lockdowns spook investors
Airline shares splutter as new EU lockdowns spook investors
Cityam.com
November 24, 2021 Wednesday 3:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 417 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The share price of major airlines is on an ongoing downward trajectory as a result of the new wave of 
Covid-19 infections around Europe which is causing countries such as Austria and the Netherlands to impose 
lockdown measures. Compared with the last few days, the share price of major carriers such as IAG and Ryanair 
[...]The post Airline shares splutter as new EU lockdowns spook investors appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The share price of major airlines is on an ongoing downward trajectory as a result of the new wave of Covid-19 
infections around Europe which is causing countries such as Austria and the Netherlands to impose lockdown 
measures.
Compared with the last few days, the share price of major carriers such as IAG and Ryanair went down 2.9 and 2.7 
per cent respectively, while Easyjet's shares plummeted by 3 per cent at 10.30am today.
Despite some of airlines picking up during the course of the day, investors remain spooked.
"The share price descent comes amid warnings from the World Health Organisation that there could be an 
additional 700,000 new deaths in the region, taking the total to 2.2 million by March," said Susannah Streeter, 
Hargreaves Lansdown's senior investment and market analyst.
"This has caused fresh turbulence for airline companies, which had glimpsed light through the clouds as bookings, 
especially on lucrative transatlantic routes were expected to bounce back in the spring. 
"But there are now concerns that surging infections and lockdowns will depress the confidence of the travelling 
public."
According to Streeter, investors are reacting to Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary warning of Christmas disruptions if 
the situation does not improve. 
Airline shares splutter as new EU lockdowns spook investors
"Up until last weekend, things were going great. Volumes were back running at about 100% of our pre-COVID price 
volumes," he said during an online event. "It has been disrupted by the Austrian lockdown and there is a renewed 
concern across Europe about a fourth or firth wave of Covid.
"I think we're in for a fraught period between now and Christmas where it looks like Europe is going to get very 
nervous again at the worst time of the year when people are making their Christmas travel plans."
A winter full of European lockdowns and potential restrictions is not the only motive behind the dump in share price, 
but was also influenced by the price of oil remaining high.
"The upwards path of the oil price is a particular concern for the airline sector given that fuel makes up 25 - 30 per 
cent of the operating costs of an airline," Streeter added. "Although hedging may give some airlines breathing 
space for now, it's still an ongoing worry.
"There were high hopes that brighter skies would emerge by the spring but now storm clouds appear to be 
gathering over the sector once again.''
Read more
Aviation recovery on its way, BA's owner assures
The post Airline shares splutter as new EU lockdowns spook investors  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
DfT speeds up staff security checks as disruption continues at UK airports
DfT speeds up staff security checks as disruption continues at UK airports
Cityam.com
July 3, 2022 Sunday 10:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 441 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The Department for Transport (DfT) has assured it was speeding up the process to give aviation staff 
security clearance while disruption continues at UK airports. Counter-terrorism checks are now being processed in 
10 days on average – half the time it took in March – while accreditation now takes 5 days, Sky News first reported. 
[...]The post DfT speeds up staff security checks as disruption continues at UK airports appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The Department for Transport (DfT) has assured it was speeding up the process to give aviation staff security 
clearance while disruption continues at UK airports.
Counter-terrorism checks are now being processed in 10 days on average – half the time it took in March – while 
accreditation now takes 5 days, Sky News first reported. 
“While this is a challenging time for the sector, it is not acceptable for the current disruption to continue as we head 
into the summer peak,” said transport secretary Grant Shapps. 
“The public deserves to know now whether or not their flight will run over the summer, and so I reiterate my call for 
the industry to commit to deliver the flights they have scheduled, or to cancel them well in advance so people can 
make other arrangements.”
Delays in clearing staff have been pinpointed by the industry as one of the biggest reasons behind the disruption.
Under the current system, airlines need to ask candidates to get their references from their previous employers but 
as most people changed multiple jobs due to the pandemic, it contributes to delays. 
To speed up the process, the DfT said on Thursday it would allow for greater flexibility over background checks, 
allowing employers to use an HRMC letter to verify five years of employment checks.
The decision was part of the government’s 22-point plan for aviation, City A.M. reported.
DfT speeds up staff security checks as disruption continues at UK airports
The strategy – which comes just as thousands of Britons get ready for the summer break – is aimed at avoiding the 
mayhem seen at airports during the Easter and half-term breaks.
Despite the government’s efforts, passengers continue to report major chaos at UK airports. 
A frustrated traveller today complained about not having enough space to queue at Heathrow. 
“At security it is lengthy wait times. It took me over 90 minutes from walking into the terminal until I eventually got 
through security,” 49-year-old Craig Lester said. “I hate to see what it will look like during school holidays in 
August.”
The west-London hub is expected to announce a fresh wave of cancellations by Friday, the Telegraph reported 
yesterday.
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary told the Financial Times travellers will face travel chaos for years, with airfares rising 
over the next five years. 
“[Flying] has got too cheap for what it is,” he told the outlet. “I find it absurd every time that I fly to Stansted, the train 
journey into central London is more expensive than the air fare.”
Read more
Brits to face further travel woes as airlines prepare to announce fresh wave of cancelled flights
The post DfT speeds up staff security checks as disruption continues at UK airports  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 3, 2022
End of Document
Wizz Air shares dip as airline continues to operate in Ukraine
Wizz Air shares dip as airline continues to operate in Ukraine
Cityam.com
February 22, 2022 Tuesday 2:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 333 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Shares of low-cost airline Wizz Air have dipped today, going down 2.32 per cent to 3,952p, as the 
company announced it will continue to operate in Ukraine despite the imminent threat of a Russian invasion. "Wizz 
Air is committed to continuing to fly to Ukraine and the country remains an important part of our growth [...]The post 
Wizz Air shares dip as airline continues to operate in Ukraine appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Shares of low-cost airline Wizz Air have dipped today, going down 2.32 per cent to 3,952p, as the company 
announced it will continue to operate in Ukraine despite the imminent threat of a Russian invasion.
"Wizz Air is committed to continuing to fly to Ukraine and the country remains an important part of our growth 
plans," a company spokesperson told the Telegraph. 
As part of its expansion plan, the company has applied for a US license and it aims to increase its fleet to 500 
aircraft by 2030. Wizz's chief executive Jozsef Varadi is also targeting a £100m bonus if he manages to bring the 
airline's share price over £120. 
"Ukraine, despite all the geopolitical concerns in the country has been performing as a very strong market, and we 
have been following that through be it additional investments into the network and deployment of aircraft in the 
marketplace," said Varadi last month. 
Even though several carriers - including Vueling, Air France and Lufthansa - have decided to halt all operations 
because of Moscow's offensive into Ukraine, Wizz Air is not the only airline who has decided to carry on flying. 
Last week, Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary said his company had a duty to continue flying to Kiev as long as "there 
is no war or missiles flying there."
"We see no reason not to continue those flights until we are told by European authorities that it is not safe to fly," he 
said on 16 February during a press conference. "It is important not to panic. People need to get home and people 
want to leave and fly abroad to the EU ... airlines have to provide that service."
Wizz Air shares dip as airline continues to operate in Ukraine
Just like the Budapest-based airline, Ryanair has been focusing on Ukraine in the last few months, saying in 
January it would open a few bases in the country if geopolitical tensions were to come to an end, City A.M. 
reported. 
Read more
Heathrow's boss steps down from government panel following airlines backlash
The post Wizz Air shares dip as airline continues to operate in Ukraine  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 22, 2022
End of Document
EU to ban Belarus airlines from airspace
EU to ban Belarus airlines from airspace
Cityam.com
June 4, 2021 Friday 11:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 230 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: EU ambassadors have today agreed a plan to ban Belarus airlines from flying over EU territory or 
landing in EUThe post EU to ban Belarus airlines from airspace appeared first on CityAM.
Body
EU ambassadors have today agreed a plan to ban Belarus airlines from flying over EU territory or landing in EU 
airports.
The decision will come into effect at midnight Central European Time (CET), barring any surprise last-minute 
objections by EU states, three diplomats told Reuters.
The EU is also strongly recommending that EU airlines do not fly over Belarus, but have not put in place a legally 
binding ban on them doing so.
The ban comes in response to Belarus' decision to force a Ryanair flight carrying a dissident journalist to land in 
Minsk last Sunday.
Belarusian journalist and activist Roman Protasevich, a former editor of the Telegram channel Nexta and Nexta 
Live and a prominent critic of President Alexander Lukashenko, was then arrested.
The move has been condemned around the world, with the EU in the process of deciding on whether to hit the 
eastern European country with sanctions.
The UK has already stripped Belarus' national carrier Belavia of its operating licence, and told its airlines to avoid 
the country's airspace.
Air travel watchdog International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) has also launched a robe into the incident, 
which Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary branded a "state-sponsored hijacking".
Before the Open: Get the jump on the markets with our early morning newsletter
The post EU to ban Belarus airlines from airspace  appeared first on CityAM. 
EU to ban Belarus airlines from airspace
Load-Date: June 4, 2021
End of Document
Airlines to run more flights this summer to keep hold of coveted take-off slots
Airlines to run more flights this summer to keep hold of coveted take-off 
slots
Cityam.com
January 24, 2022 Monday 4:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 278 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Airlines will be forced to run more flights this summer, no matter their passenger numbers, in a bid to 
keep hold of coveted take-off and landing slots. Carriers must use their flight slots at least 70 per cent of the time, 
transport secretary Grant Shapps has announced, up from at least 50 per cent of [...]The post Airlines to run more 
flights this summer to keep hold of coveted take-off slots appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Airlines will be forced to run more flights this summer, no matter their passenger numbers, in a bid to keep hold of 
coveted take-off and landing slots.
Carriers must use their flight slots at least 70 per cent of the time, transport secretary Grant Shapps has 
announced, up from at least 50 per cent of the time.
The move is designed to boost the industry as it recovers from the pandemic, and "balance the needs" of individual 
airlines.
Read more
'Britain is back in business': Covid-19 tests for vaccinated travellers scrapped
While it could spark an increase in so-called 'ghost flights', carriers which use slots despite having no passengers to 
avoid having the slot revoked, the move was welcomed by Heathrow and Gatwick airports.
The boss of British Airways' parent company IAG, Luis Gallego warned that the decision will "force airlines" to 
operate flights with low passengers numbers, which will "generate unnecessary CO2 emissions".
"This is bad for the environment and detrimental to aviation's efforts to tackle climate change."
Airlines once had to use their slots 80 per cent of the time, though the percentage was dialled back as pandemic 
restrictions grounded flights across the globe.
Airlines to run more flights this summer to keep hold of coveted take-off slots
Shapps said: "Today's extension marks a step back towards normal rules, helping the sector to recover and grow 
as travel returns, while protecting it against any future uncertainty."
However, the rules for winter will remain at the same level they are now - 50 per cent.
Read more
Ryanair to return to profit with hopes of flying 165m passengers this year, says boss
The post Airlines to run more flights this summer to keep hold of coveted take-off slots  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
BA axes almost one in five flights as travel chaos drags on
BA axes almost one in five flights as travel chaos drags on
Cityam.com
July 9, 2022 Saturday 11:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 283 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways (BA) has reportedly axed 20 per cent of its summer schedule as travel chaos drags on. 
According to an analysis by the Times, when compared with what was announced in April, BA cancelled around 18 
per cent of flights for July, August and September. That is 5 per cent more than what was [...]The post BA axes 
almost one in five flights as travel chaos drags on appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways (BA) has reportedly axed 20 per cent of its summer schedule as travel chaos drags on.
According to an analysis by the Times, when compared with what was announced in April, BA cancelled around 18 
per cent of flights for July, August and September.
That is 5 per cent more than what was estimated.
The analysis came after the carrier was forced on Wednesday to axe another 10,300 flights for the August to 
October period, taking advantage of the government’s “amnesty” on airport slots.
To help airlines avoid last-minute cancellations, the Department for Transport gave carriers a brief window to give 
back the airport slots if they weren’t sure they could operate them. 
The “amnesty” period closed yesterday.
“While taking further action is not where we wanted to be, it’s the right thing to do for our customers and our 
colleagues,” said a company spokesperson.
“This new flexibility means that we can further reduce our schedule and consolidate some of our quieter services so 
that we can protect as many of our holiday flights as possible.”
The airline said that while the majority of its flights – including long-haul routes – was not affected, it didn’t 
“underestimate the impact this will have” on passengers. 
BA axes almost one in five flights as travel chaos drags on
BA is not the only carrier to have drastically reduced its schedule due to a combination of labour shortages and 
surge in travel demand. 
Easyjet axed 15 per cent of its flights, going from 166,056 planned to 141,433, while Ryanair’s cancellations 
affected 7 per cent of services, the newspaper reported.
Read more
BA axes ANOTHER 10,300 flights while recruiting KLM COO for top job
The post BA axes almost one in five flights as travel chaos drags on  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 9, 2022
End of Document
US follows UK and EU and closes airspace to Russia
US follows UK and EU and closes airspace to Russia
Cityam.com
March 2, 2022 Wednesday 11:09 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 274 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The US has decided to follow in the UK and EU's footsteps and close its airspace to Russian aircraft. 
The ban, which will be in place from tonight, was announced yesterday after a few days of hesitation on 
Washington's side. "The United States stands with our allies and partners across the world in responding to [...]The 
post US follows UK and EU and closes airspace to Russia appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The US has decided to follow in the UK and EU's footsteps and close its airspace to Russian aircraft.
The ban, which will be in place from tonight, was announced yesterday after a few days of hesitation on 
Washington's side.
"The United States stands with our allies and partners across the world in responding to Putin's unprovoked 
aggression against the people of Ukraine," commented transportation secretary Pete Buttigieg, echoing what 
President Biden said in his State of the Union address.
The White House's decision, which is expected to instigate retaliation from the Kremlin, follows the decision made 
by several companies to halt operations over the invasion of Ukraine. 
Plane manufacturer Boeing announced last night it was suspending maintenance and technical support for Russian 
airlines, while Airbus said it was analysing whether an engineering centre near Moscow could still provide services 
under the sanctions.
The restrictions are likely to deal a huge blow not only to Russian aviation, which constituted 6 per cent of global air 
traffic capacity, but also air cargo operations, City A.M. reported. 
"While only 3 per cent of total cargo volume travels by air each year, that small amount accounts for approximately 
35% of total cargo value," aviation analyst Alex Macheras told City A.M. 
"With airspace restrictions impacting airlines globally, we're going to see the prices tick in an upwards trend as the 
impact trickles down - especially when combined with the high oil price."
US follows UK and EU and closes airspace to Russia
Read more
"We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss
The post US follows UK and EU and closes airspace to Russia  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 3, 2022
End of Document
Which? reports Easyjet to CAA for mistreating passengers throughout travel chaos
Which? reports Easyjet to CAA for mistreating passengers throughout travel 
chaos
Cityam.com
July 7, 2022 Thursday 3:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 332 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Consumer champion Which? has reported Easyjet to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) for allegedly 
mistreating passengers over the last weeks of travel chaos.  Which? accused the low-cost airline of keeping 
travellers in the dark about their right to either be booked on another company’s flight or claim compensation.  By 
directing stranded customers to the ‘Manage [...]The post Which? reports Easyjet to CAA for mistreating 
passengers throughout travel chaos appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Consumer champion Which? has reported Easyjet to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) for allegedly mistreating 
passengers over the last weeks of travel chaos. 
Which? accused the low-cost airline of keeping travellers in the dark about their right to either be booked on another 
company’s flight or claim compensation. 
By directing stranded customers to the ‘Manage My Bookings’, Easyjet, Which? argued, allowed people to rebook 
only on its own flights. 
“EasyJet has treated its passengers appallingly, but this is just the latest example of a systemic problem in the 
aviation sector – some airlines routinely ignore their legal obligations because they know they won’t face any 
consequences,” said Which?’s travel editor Rory Boland. 
“A major overhaul is desperately needed, so the government must give the CAA stronger powers so it can hit 
operators with heavy fines when necessary. 
“Ministers should also drop their ill-conceived plans to slash compensation rates for domestic flights.”
The decision comes a week after the consumer champion accused the likes of Ryanair, British Airways (BA) and 
TUI of breaking consumer law by either “blacklisting” or adopting a misleading language over refund policies. 
The companies rebutted, condemning Which?’s “unfounded and unsupported allegations.”
Which? reports Easyjet to CAA for mistreating passengers throughout travel chaos
Commenting on the complaint, Easyjet said passengers are clearly made aware of their rights. 
“We provide customers with a leading self-service tool which enables them to reroute quickly and easily on 
alternative flights where their flight is cancelled,” the airline said. 
“We clearly inform customers that if there are no easyJet alternative flights within 24 hours, they can book flights via 
an alternative carrier and we’ll reimburse them in full or they can choose a full refund.”
Read more
Which? calls for travel rule overhaul to hold airlines accountable when breaking consumer law
The post Which? reports Easyjet to CAA for mistreating passengers throughout travel chaos  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 7, 2022
End of Document
Air freight demand raises aviation outlook, research says
Air freight demand raises aviation outlook, research says
Cityam.com
January 13, 2022 Thursday 6:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 297 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The Covid-induced increase in air freight demand has raised the aviation industry's outlook, according to 
research from global law firm Reed Smith. Over the last 20 months, the pandemic and the consequent travel 
restrictions reduced demand for passenger flights but increased it for air cargo, especially as a result of supply 
chain issues and peaks [...]The post Air freight demand raises aviation outlook, research says appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
The Covid-induced increase in air freight demand has raised the aviation industry's outlook, according to research 
from global law firm Reed Smith. 
Over the last 20 months, the pandemic and the consequent travel restrictions reduced demand for passenger flights 
but increased it for air cargo, especially as a result of supply chain issues and peaks in shopping demand. 
"After losing two years of air passenger growth to the pandemic, the industry has seen the freighter market as a 
rare bright spot, fuelled by the boom in online shopping, supply chain disruptions, and a drop in passenger flights," 
said Reed Smith's aviation group co-chair Richard Hakes.
"There are, at least, indicators that some of the pandemic-driven boon to air freight will continue, and environmental 
trends are also working in favour of new, more fuel-efficient freighters."
According to the research, technologies and environmental considerations such as the rise of sustainable aviation 
fuels are bringing about new investments.
Around $8bn of capital has flowed into the development to eVTOL aircraft, with analysts expecting the cargo market 
to reach $58bn by 2035. The passenger-to-freighter conversion market is also growing, with 750 conversions 
projected over the next 20 years.
"Such a lot has changed over the last two years and while we may not be able to predict the future, if we can 
identify where and how we should be putting attention and resources, and, using our collective capabilities and 
Air freight demand raises aviation outlook, research says
experience, hypothesise on what might be round the next corner, then we will be in a better place to support our 
clients in the industry," Hakes added.
Read more
Ryanair calls on EU to ignore ghost flights claims
The post Air freight demand raises aviation outlook, research says  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 13, 2022
End of Document
Let them eat free snacks: British Airways brings complimentary food and drinks back
Let them eat free snacks: British Airways brings complimentary food and 
drinks back
Cityam.com
January 31, 2022 Monday 12:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 313 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways (BA) has decided to reintroduce complimentary food and drinks aboard its short-haul 
flights after removing them as part of a cost-cutting policy that was set up six years ago. "You've told us you 
appreciate the complimentary water and snacks we've been offering on short-haul flights in our Euro Traveller 
cabin, so we'll be [...]The post Let them eat free snacks: British Airways brings complimentary food and drinks back 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways (BA) has decided to reintroduce complimentary food and drinks aboard its short-haul flights after 
removing them as part of a cost-cutting policy that was set up six years ago.
"You've told us you appreciate the complimentary water and snacks we've been offering on short-haul flights in our 
Euro Traveller cabin, so we'll be continuing with these too," said BA's chief executive Sean Doyle in a letter to 
customers sent yesterday, the Telegraph reported. 
Doyle added that the move, which was introduced by his predecessor Alex Cruz, was a mistake.
"I'm not seeking to make excuses for things that should have gone better. What I am doing is making a personal 
commitment to you that we will build a better British Airways," he added.
BA's decision was welcomed by customers. One said it was "about time BA upped its game", while another 
tweeted: "For me getting rid of snacks and drinks in euro traveller was a big turn off. We used to save avios over 
the year and then use them to fly to Malaga from gatters in peak season."
                     For me getting rid of snacks and drinks in euro traveller was a big turn off. We used to save avios over 
the year and then use them to fly to Malaga from gatters in peak season. Alex Fenlon (@alexfenlon) January 30, 
2022
Let them eat free snacks: British Airways brings complimentary food and drinks back
In the last few years, hundreds of people have complained of BA's standards, accusing the airlines of offering a 
poor service to compete with low-cost carriers. Customers recently lambasted BA's call centres for its hour-long 
waiting times, the outlet reported. 
"My number one priority is to address the customer call centre issues many of you have experienced and may still 
be experiencing," Doyle added. 
Read more
Ryanair sees fourth quarter as 'hugely uncertain' following 96m loss
The post Let them eat free snacks: British Airways brings complimentary food and drinks back  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
Half-term holiday bonanza: Britons flock abroad with departures soaring 44 per cent
Half-term holiday bonanza: Britons flock abroad with departures soaring 44 
per cent
Cityam.com
February 9, 2023 Thursday 3:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 389 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Britons are capitalising on the first restriction-free February half-term in two years to flock abroad, 
according to new data.  Figures released today by aviation analytics firm Cirium showed that departures during the 
coming half term are up 44 per cent on last year’s levels, as 15,455 flights are scheduled to take off from UK 
airports [...]The post Half-term holiday bonanza: Britons flock abroad with departures soaring 44 per cent appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Britons are capitalising on the first restriction-free February half-term in two years to flock abroad, according to new 
data. 
Figures released today by aviation analytics firm Cirium showed that departures during the coming half term are up 
44 per cent on last year’s levels, as 15,455 flights are scheduled to take off from UK airports between 11 and 19 
February.
This is up 731 per cent on 2021 numbers – when the world was still locked up as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic 
– but still 19 per cent down on the 19,136 departing flights registered in 2019.
According to Hargreaves Lansdown’s lead equity analyst Sophie Lund-Yates, this is “a real boost to the travel 
sector which has been badly burned in recent years”.
“Despite the ongoing cost of living crisis, it’s clear that Brits are still committed to getting away after years of travel 
disruption,” she told City A.M.
“It seems the discretionary income that’s left behind every month is being funnelled towards experiences rather than 
things.”
Read more
Rail: Inquiry launched into anti-strike bill amid concerns about minimum service level proposal
Half-term holiday bonanza: Britons flock abroad with departures soaring 44 per cent
Data showed that a majority of people will opt for European gateways, as Dublin, Amsterdam and Paris are among 
the most popular destinations. 
While Easyjet , with 3,126 departures scheduled, will be the busiest airline during the holiday period, followed by 
British Airways and Ryanair. 
The carrier made the headlines last month when its chief executive Johan Lundgren said Easyjet  was well-
equipped to face an uncertain macroeconomic environment, plagued by a looming recession.
“We see a strong booking momentum, as customers prioritise spending on their holidays,” Lundgren told journalists 
on 25 January. 
“And in this high cost of living environment, customers are looking for value.”
Nevertheless, analysts are wary of demand levels coming down as higher costs of living bite into people’s pockets. 
“At some point people’s spending power will be eroded, and pent up holiday demand will start to unwind,” Lund-
Yates said.
“That’s not to say a crash in demand is imminent, but a level of rebasing is to be expected.”
Read more
Investigation finds rail union TSSA tolerated bullying, harassment and sexual assault
The post Half-term holiday bonanza: Britons flock abroad with departures soaring 44 per cent  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 9, 2023
End of Document
Raab welcomes aviation watchdog probe into Belarus plane grounding
Raab welcomes aviation watchdog probe into Belarus plane grounding
Cityam.com
May 27, 2021 Thursday 9:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 272 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Dominic Raab this evening said that the UK welcomes a probe into the forced landing of a Ryanair flight 
byThe post Raab welcomes aviation watchdog probe into Belarus plane grounding appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Dominic Raab this evening said that the UK welcomes a probe into the forced landing of a Ryanair flight by Belarus 
on Sunday.
Earlier today Ireland's transport minister said that air travel watchdog International Civil Aviation Organization 
(ICAO) would investigate the incident, which has been met with international outcry.
Belarus scrambled a fighter and used a false bomb alert to divert the Irish airliner to Minsk and detain dissident 
journalist Roman Protasevich, a critic of Alexander Lukashenko's regime. 
The plane, which was traveling from Athens to Vilnius, was almost in Lithuanian airspace when ordered to land.
Lukashenko said that the 26-year-old had been plotting a "bloody rebellion" against his regime, which many 
governments have rejected after a disputed election last year.
Several countries, including the US, had called for an investigation. ICAO will produce an interim report by June 25.
"We join our international partners in wanting to know the full circumstances that led up to this grave violation of 
international law and the attack on the principles that underpin civil aviation," Raab said in a statement. 
The UK has already told its airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace, robbing the country of viral overfly revenues, and 
has also suspended Belavia's operating permit.
Transport secretary Grant Shapps also said that any Belarusian aircraft which wants to use UK airspace would 
have to seek special authorisation.
The EU is in the process of deciding on new sanctions against Lukashenko and his regime.
Raab welcomes aviation watchdog probe into Belarus plane grounding
The post Raab welcomes aviation watchdog probe into Belarus plane grounding  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 27, 2021
End of Document
Travel rule changes 'inconsistent', says airline boss
Travel rule changes 'inconsistent', says airline boss
Cityam.com
June 5, 2021 Saturday 10:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 303 words
Byline: James Warrington
Highlight: There is "no consistency" and a lack of transparency over UK travel rules, a top airline chief has said, 
afterThe post Travel rule changes 'inconsistent', says airline boss appeared first on CityAM.
Body
There is "no consistency" and a lack of transparency over UK travel rules, a top airline chief has said, after Portugal 
was removed from the green list.
Tim Alderslade, chief executive of Airlines UK, accused ministers of reneging on a promise to provide a travel 
watchlist that would warn when a country's status could be changed.
"It would be a list of countries that were on the cusp - or there was a risk that they would be moving from green to 
amber - so passengers were aware of that, it was fully transparent and they would be taking that risk when they 
booked," he told the BBC's Today programme.
"It was entirely to stop what happened last summer when countries were moving up and down off the corridor list on 
a weekly basis and we saw people stranded overseas and then desperate to come home again because they 
couldn't afford to quarantine."
The airline chief said the lack of a watchlist had caused "pandemonium" and said the government was "changing 
their mind and the criteria on a weekly basis".
In a surprise move this week the government moved Portugal from the green list to the amber list, meaning 
travellers returning from the country will have to isolate for 10 days.
The decision sent airline stocks into decline, left Brits scrambling to return home and was met with anger by bosses.
Easyjet chief executive Johan Lundgren said the decision "simply wasn't justified" by the science.
"This shock decision to add Portugal to the Amber list is a huge blow to those who are currently in Portugal and 
those who have booked to be reunited with loved ones, or take a well-deserved break this summer. 
Travel rule changes 'inconsistent', says airline boss
Michael O'Leary of Ryanair, which also added hundreds of flights, said the government was "just making it up as it 
goes".
The post Travel rule changes 'inconsistent', says airline boss  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 5, 2021
End of Document
Editorial: Time to knock heads together until planes can fly at full capacity
Editorial: Time to knock heads together until planes can fly at full capacity
Cityam.com
August 3, 2022 Wednesday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 353 words
Byline: Sascha O'Sullivan
Highlight: Imagine if the London Olympics were being hosted next week: the stadium would have been a shadow 
of itself with ticket-holders still stuck on the tarmac. The post Editorial: Time to knock heads together until planes 
can fly at full capacity appeared first on CityAM.
Body
In 2020 we ran out of toilet paper and pasta. In 2021, it was semiconductor chips and migrants to pick our fruit. 
Now, in 2022, we’ve run out of short haul British Airways flights. 
The national carrier won’t sell any new tickets from Heathrow until mid-August as a result of the airports decision to 
cap the number of passengers at 100,000. 
It could extend into the bank holiday weekend or longer.
Only last week, leading voices in business and politics were busy waxing lyrical on the 10 year anniversary of the 
London Olympics, extolling the virtues of sporting events to bring tourism dollars into the capital.
Imagine if they were being hosted next week: the stadium would have been a shadow of itself with ticket-holders 
still stuck on the tarmac. 
According to London & Partners, if we play our cards right we could have 40 million visitors a year, injecting £22bn 
into the city’s economy by 2025. 
Read more
Execs from TUI, EasyJet and British Airways grilled over role in Bank Holiday travel chaos
But they won’t be doing that at this rate, with ticket prices spiralling and other airports in the country likely to be 
even more rammed as a result of Heathrow’s failure to prepare for an upswing in travel. 
The fault of the travel crisis cannot be easily apportioned. 
Editorial: Time to knock heads together until planes can fly at full capacity
The airports and the airlines must both shoulder their share of the blame. 
It would be only extreme naivety to not see BA’s decision as a toss of the dice in a negotiation with Heathrow to 
scrap – or at least hike – the passenger cap. 
John Holland-Kaye, the Heathrow chief executive, has blamed airlines. 
Airline execs such as Ryanair’s chief financial officer have thrown it back at the airports. 
Doling out blame will serve us only as far as it elucidates the problem and the problem is one of people: we do not 
have enough staff to ensure easy travel. 
Instead of waging a war of words, we ought to launch a campaign to hire until all stations are manned, flights are 
taking off and bags aren’t being lost somewhere out near Hounslow.
The post Editorial: Time to knock heads together until planes can fly at full capacity  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 3, 2022
End of Document
The Notebook: Victoria Scholar on why holiday spirit isn’t enough to power airlines’ profits
The Notebook: Victoria Scholar on why holiday spirit isn’t enough to power 
airlines’ profits
Cityam.com
October 10, 2023 Tuesday 4:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 881 words
Byline: Lucy Kenningham
Highlight: Where the City’s top thinkers get a few things off their chest. Today, Interactive Investor’s Victoria 
Scholar takes the pen. Holiday spirit not enough to power airlines’ profits Global airline capacity (number of seats 
offered multiplied by distance flown) is finally on track to restore its pre-pandemic levels, according to data from 
Circium, reported by [...]
Body
                     Where the City’s top thinkers get a few things off their chest. Today, Interactive Investor’s Victoria 
Scholar takes the pen.                   
                     Holiday spirit not enough to power airlines’ profits                   
Global airline capacity (number of seats offered multiplied by distance flown) is finally on track to restore its pre-
pandemic levels, according to data from Circium, reported by Bloomberg. 
This comes after a strong period for travel over the busy summer months.
                     Easyjet, for example, reported a record pretax profit in the third quarter, Tui said it has enjoyed ‘a very 
good travel summer,’ and Ryanair reported its fourth straight months of record passenger numbers in August. 
This is thanks to a boost to international travel over the school holidays, an ongoing rebound in demand for travel 
post-pandemic, and higher ticket prices helping to offset inflationary pressures.
                     However, this hasn’t necessarily translated into strong earnings. The International Air Transport 
Association estimates that profits in the industry will be down 40 per cent this year versus 2019. 
And for investors, shares have still had a difficult time, struggling to restore pre-Covid levels. Part of this is because 
the travel industry is closely correlated with the economic cycle. 
The Notebook: Victoria Scholar on why holiday spirit isn’t enough to power airlines’ profits
Elevated inflation, higher for longer interest rates, and a softening consumer have all sparked nervousness about 
the strength of ticket demand ahead. 
There are worries that the busy summer could quickly switch to a quiet winter during the colder months and in term 
time.
                     Plus, corporate travel remains weak, with online video conferencing the new norm post-Covid, 
particularly now that businesses are looking for ways to cut costs.
                     The rising oil price is another potential headwind for airlines, potentially adding to their costs with 
another sharp increase in the price of Brent and WTI this week. 
The sector got off to a bruising start to trade yesterday following the escalating conflict between Hamas and Israel. 
Flight cancellations sent shares in stocks like British Airways’ parent company IAG, Easyjet and Air France KLM 
sharply into the red.
                     So, while global airline capacity is finally restored to pre-Covid levels, converting this into profitability 
and share price gains remains a challenge for the sector.
                     Moon haute couture                   
Prada and Axiom Space will be designing the new space suits for Nasa astronauts for their Moon mission in 2025. 
It will be the first crewed lunar landing since Apollo 17 in 1972, and will be the first to place a woman on the Moon. 
Axiom Space’s CEO Michael Suffredini said: “Prada’s technical expertise with raw materials, manufacturing 
techniques, and innovative design concepts will bring advanced technologies instrumental in ensuring not only the 
comfort of astronauts on the lunar surface, but also the much-needed human factors considerations absent from 
legacy spacesuits.”
                     Banning bonuses                   
If Labour is elected, the party plans to give power to the water regulator, Ofwat, to ban bonuses to water bosses 
found to be polluting rivers and lakes with raw sewage. 
Speaking at the party’s annual conference in Liverpool, Steve Reed, shadow environment secretary, said ‘special 
measures’ would be introduced on water bosses including sanctions to make sure they cannot profit while breaking 
the law. 
Last year, the plans would have allowed the government to block six out of nine water bosses’ bonuses because of 
high water pollution levels.
What’s happening to the shekel?
The Israel-Hamas conflict has pushed the Israeli shekel to the lowest level since 2016. 
This prompted the Bank of Israel to intervene by selling up to $30bn of foreign currency in the open market, marking 
its first intervention in two years and its first foreign exchange sale ever. 
Before the violence erupted, the shekel was already struggling as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was looking 
to carry out a judicial overhaul that would give the Israeli parliament more power and weaken its judiciary system.
                     What I’ve been watching this week                   
Panorama looks into the dark past of Abercrombie & Fitch, a fashion brand described in the documentary as ‘sex 
meets Ivy League’. The BBC investigation includes conversations with male employees who said they were 
exploited with some even alleging that they were abused. 
The Notebook: Victoria Scholar on why holiday spirit isn’t enough to power airlines’ profits
Former CEO, Mike Jeffries, was accused of predatory behaviour, allegedly using a middleman to specifically recruit 
young adult men to attend events hosted by him and his partner Matthew Smith. Abercrombie & Fitch was once an 
extremely popular brand. 
Led by Jeffries, the business developed into a multibillion-dollar fashion powerhouse in the 1990s and 2000s aimed 
at teenage shoppers. Its marketing was highly sexualised with shirtless models greeting shoppers at their stores’ 
front doors. 
In 2015, Abercrombie put an end to this style of marketing following the departure of Jeffries as it looked to enter a 
new phase. of its development.
Read more
Airline shares plunge on fears for oil prices and travel over Israel conflict
Load-Date: October 10, 2023
End of Document
Jet maker Embraer reaffirms full-year forecast after increased deliveries
Jet maker Embraer reaffirms full-year forecast after increased deliveries
Cityam.com
November 7, 2022 Monday 3:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 236 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Embraer has reaffirmed its full-year forecast as it increased quarterly deliveries compared with 2021 
levels. The Brazilian jet maker said today it shipped 10 commercial aircraft and 23 executive jets in the three 
months to the end of September  – up 10 per cent from last year’s delivery volumes. The company’s order backlog 
stood at [...]The post Jet maker Embraer reaffirms full-year forecast after increased deliveries appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Embraer has reaffirmed its full-year forecast as it increased quarterly deliveries compared with 2021 levels. 
The Brazilian jet maker said today it shipped 10 commercial aircraft and 23 executive jets in the three months to the 
end of September – up 10 per cent from last year’s delivery volumes.
The company’s order backlog stood at $17.8bn, up 6 per cent on the year but unchanged compared to the previous 
quarter.
This led Embraer to reaffirm its forecast of between 100 and 110 executive jets and 60 to 70 commercial planes.
Nevertheless, the results pushed shares down by more than 3.5 per cent as deliveries fell below analysts’ 
expectations.
JP Morgan analysts, who were expecting 51 planes, told Reuters the firm had “another weak quarter” while 
Santander said supply chain issues could still be a challenge. 
Embraer would not be the only plane maker to continue suffering from disruptions.
Aviation powerhouse Airbus  warned late last month the supply chain remained “fragile from the cumulative impact 
of Covid, the war in Ukraine, energy supply issues and constrained labour markets.”
Rival Boeing, on the other hand, shrunk its losses in the commercial plane business by 7 per cent following the 
resumption of 787 and 737 deliveries.
Jet maker Embraer reaffirms full-year forecast after increased deliveries
Read more
Ryanair remains cautious about future despite record half-year
The post Jet maker Embraer reaffirms full-year forecast after increased deliveries  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 7, 2022
End of Document
Airport slots should be given to those who can use it, Wizz Air boss says
Airport slots should be given to those who can use it, Wizz Air boss says
Cityam.com
January 13, 2022 Thursday 12:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 523 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Wizz Air's chief executive Jozsef Varadi said that legacy airlines should not retain their airport slots if 
they are not able to utilise them. "Why are they protected for the benefit of legacy carriers," he told Reuters today. 
"This is a way of distorting the market further by allowing access to certain airlines at the detriment to [...]The post 
Airport slots should be given to those who can use it, Wizz Air boss says appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air's chief executive Jozsef Varadi said that legacy airlines should not retain their airport slots if they are not 
able to utilise them.
"Why are they protected for the benefit of legacy carriers," he told Reuters today. "This is a way of distorting the 
market further by allowing access to certain airlines at the detriment to others who could actually do more there, 
more efficiently."
Varadi's comments come on the same day the airline issued a 500m new bond for general management purposes, 
including the repayment of £300m in Covid financing from the Bank of England, City A.M. reported.
Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary re-ignited the airport slots/'ghost flights' debacle yesterday, when he accused 
carriers such as Lufthansa of "blocking their slots" to protect themselves from competition with low-cost airlines, 
City A.M. reported. 
"The solution to Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' problem is a simple one - just sell these seats to consumers," O'Leary 
said yesterday in a statement. "Lufthansa loves crying crocodile tears about the environment when doing everything 
possible to protect its slots.
"If Lufthansa doesn't want to operate "ghost flights" to protect its slots, then simply sell these seats at low fares, and 
help accelerate the recovery of short and long haul air travel to and from Europe."
In December, Lufthansa's boss Carsten Spohr told German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung 
the airline was forced to operate around 18,000 flights just to retain their airport slots under EU rules.
Airport slots should be given to those who can use it, Wizz Air boss says
"Because of the reduced demand in January, we even would have canceled considerably more flights. But in winter 
we will have to carry out 18,000 extra, unnecessary flights, just to secure our take-off and landing rights," he said.
According to EU rules, airlines need to utilise their airport slots if they want to retain them the following year. Before 
the pandemic carriers needed to use at least 80 per cent of their airport space, but as a result of Covid the 
European Commission eased the rules, initially to 0 per cent but as the industry started to get back on its feet, the 
ratio went up to 50 per cent.
"The objective of the EU slot relief is to ensure that airlines can retain their historic slots without having to fly empty 
flights when health restrictions prevent passengers from travelling," a Commission spokesperson told City A.M 
yesterday. "Empty flights are bad for the economy and the environment."
In December the Commission decided to extend slot relief rule, going up to 64 per cent but extending the deadline 
to 29 October.
"The relief has worked very well for almost two years now, providing the necessary support that has prevented 
economically and environmentally harmful flights operating solely for the purpose of maintaining slots," they added. 
"It can therefore not be argued that the EU rules oblige the airline to fly. If airlines decide to keep operating empty or 
almost empty flights it is because they have decided so."
Read more
Ryanair calls on EU to ignore ghost flights claims
The post Airport slots should be given to those who can use it, Wizz Air boss says  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 13, 2022
End of Document
High Court rules in favour of government's traffic light travel system
High Court rules in favour of government's traffic light travel system
Cityam.com
July 20, 2021 Tuesday 12:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 366 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: The High Court has ruled that the government's traffic light system for travel was not unlawful, in yet 
another blowThe post High Court rules in favour of government's traffic light travel system appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The High Court has ruled that the government's traffic light system for travel was not unlawful, in yet another blow 
for the aviation sector.
A collection of the UK's biggest airlines and airports, including BA owner IAG, Easyjet, Ryanair, and Manchester 
Airport Group, had challenged the transparency of the system.
As a result of the judgement, the government will not have to provide further information as to how it decides which 
countries face what set of restrictions.
Under the programme, countries are classed as "green", "amber", or "red" according to a number of different 
factors, with no restrictions for travel to green list destinations and mandatory hotel quarantine for red list ones.
However, in recent days the government shocked the industry by introducing an "amber plus" classification to cope 
with a surge in cases in France. Under this classification, those returning from France have to isolate for 10 days, 
despite the country being on the amber list.
The decision met with outrage from the sector. In a statement after today's judgement was handed down, the 
claimants described it as "shambolic".
"British businesses and consumers deserve to understand how the Government takes decisions on the traffic light 
system so that they can book their travel with confidence whether for business, visiting friends and family or simply 
taking a holiday", they said. 
"The way decisions have been taken to date has not been transparent and has created huge confusion and 
uncertainty for the British public. In a recent poll 80 per cent of UK consumers agreed. 
High Court rules in favour of government's traffic light travel system
"If the Government is truly following the data then it must make significant changes to the 'green' list including 
adding the US and major EU countries. There is also no reason why travellers from the US and EU should not be 
exempt from quarantine and testing as soon as possible. 
"The UK has already fallen behind the EU's reopening and our overly cautious approach to international travel will 
further impact our economic recovery."
                     City A.M. has contacted the Department for Transport for comment.
The post High Court rules in favour of government's traffic light travel system  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 20, 2021
End of Document
London will be diminished if the Government's Fortress Britain approach lasts much longer
London will be diminished if the Government's Fortress Britain approach 
lasts much longer
Cityam.com
June 23, 2021 Wednesday 11:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 653 words
Byline: City A.M. Editorial
Highlight: The sights and sounds of London's gradual return to normality are tonic for the soul. There are the 
obvious signs:The post London will be diminished if the Government's Fortress Britain approach lasts much longer 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The sights and sounds of London's gradual return to normality are tonic for the soul. 
There are the obvious signs: the march of City workers across London Bridge in the morning, queues at Pret at 
lunchtime, a packed Greek Street in the evening. And there are the less obvious, like spotting tourists plotting their 
journey from Bond Street to Charing Cross, staring intently at Harry Beck's tube map masterpiece. 
What's striking about the latter is how many of those tourists speak with British accents as they quibble over where 
is best to change for the Circle and District line. It's both wonderful and a poignant sign of the times.
This is London, after all. You're supposed to hear five different languages by the time you've got your coffee in the 
morning. 
                     Read more:                      Sadiq Khan unveils huge London tourism campaign after reelection
But those tourists and visitors aren't welcome here at the moment. Nor are the foreign businesspeople, or the 
Londoners who went "back home" for the pandemic and now want to return. It is off limits for those who want to see 
this once perpetually open and international city for the first time. 
Quarantines, border restrictions, and the rhetoric from a Government luxuriating in tough talk says one thing to the 
rest of the world: Britain is closed. 
There are some, of course, who say it's entirely rational: a spike in Covid-19 cases came from the Indian-origin 
Delta variant, we can't risk that again, and if we just shut the doors at Heathrow we'll be able to enjoy our lives here. 
London will be diminished if the Government's Fortress Britain approach lasts much longer
But policy cannot be driven by hypotheticals - a variant could emerge and it could be resistant to existing vaccines 
so we must make decisions as if those possibilities are certainties. 
Fortress Britain must not be the norm. The evidence showing even the Delta variant is effectively immunised by our 
suite of vaccines has continued to grow. Meanwhile, the pharma companies are busily working to create booster 
jabs in anticipation of any threats to the current programme. 
Too many businesses, and livelihoods, depend on the UK's magnetic pull to the rest of the world. That's truer than 
anywhere else in London. 
Our restaurants are closing at lunchtime because European staff can't, or won't, come back to the capital. West End 
bars are struggling for custom because no matter how many of the good folk of Coventry get the train down it 
doesn't replace a continent's-worth of Ryanair flights. Hotels are ghost-towns. 
How long is this going to go on? How long are we going to be scared of the unknown? How long will we make 
policy decisions with the precision of a magic-eight ball?
We can already see the international implications. 
The EU, an organisation not exactly known for decisiveness and speed, is moving ahead. Emmanuel Macron is 
wining and dining US banking bosses in Versailles next week, imploring them to move more of their operations 
across the channel. Frankly, his argument looks more compelling than it should if we continue cutting ourselves off 
from the rest of the world. 
Some will no doubt think this is a tad on the apocalyptic side. We expect the Government to tomorrow announce 
changes to the travel regime, which should allow vaccinated people to travel freely. We hope, anyway. 
Even then, work needs to be done to ensure that we don't have hours of long queues at our airports. When you 
look at the level of private sector innovation over the past year, it shouldn't be beyond the wit of the Home Office to 
get our e-Gates to read QR codes. 
London is an international city. It belongs to Londoners but we've always lent it to the world. Every day those 
avenues are shut comes with consequences.
                     Read more:                      Heathrow to open separate terminal for red list arrivals
The post London will be diminished if the Government's Fortress Britain approach lasts much longer  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 23, 2021
End of Document
Slot wars on the cards as Asian regulators threaten retaliation over new EU rules
Slot wars on the cards as Asian regulators threaten retaliation over new EU 
rules
Cityam.com
September 17, 2021 Friday 10:29 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 316 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: The aviation industry could be on the brink of a new trade war after Asian regulators warned they could 
retaliateThe post Slot wars on the cards as Asian regulators threaten retaliation over new EU rules appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
The aviation industry could be on the brink of a new trade war after Asian regulators warned they could retaliate 
over EU plans to force carriers to use 50 per cent of their take-off and landing slots during the winter season.
Having frozen slot rules during the pandemic, the bloc in July announced that airlines would once again have to 
start using their slots or risk losing them.
The decision, which covers the period from October to March, came after heavy lobbying from carrier like Ryanair 
keen to pick up extra slots as other carriers cut back flights.
But the decision has proved unpopular in some quarters, with Asian carriers in particular protesting they will be 
unfairly penalised because their long-haul networks will take much longer to recover.
Reuters reported that Asian regulators had already told European airlines that they will also be expected to fly 50 
per cent of capacity in the coming months.
Daniel Ng, director air transport at Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore, said that the city had included such 
provisions to ensure fair treatment.
Both China Airlines and Korea Airlines have also expressed concerns about the new rules.
But it is not just Asian airlines who are worried. Lufthansa, one of several carriers still waiting for long-haul travel to 
return in full, said that forcing carriers to fly half empty planes to keep their slots would harm the environment.
Slot wars on the cards as Asian regulators threaten retaliation over new EU rules
"Is it a trade war? Certainly the germ of one," former Australian aviation negotiator Peter Harbison, chairman 
emeritus of the Sydney-based CAPA Centre for Aviation consultancy, told Reuters.
"And it will be accentuated as more airlines collapse and international markets remain closed, or at best, uncertain."
Before the Open: Get the jump on the markets with our early morning newsletter
The post Slot wars on the cards as Asian regulators threaten retaliation over new EU rules  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 17, 2021
End of Document
BA's South African franchisee Comair sees fleet grounded over safety concerns
BA's South African franchisee Comair sees fleet grounded over safety 
concerns
Cityam.com
March 16, 2022 Wednesday 3:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 272 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The fleet of British Airways' (BA) South African franchisee Comair was grounded over safety concerns. 
The South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) decided to revoke the regional carrier's right to fly indefinitely on 
Sunday, after a 24-hour ban issued the day before due to fears of engine failures and landing gear malfunctions. 
"The suspension follows [...]The post BA's South African franchisee Comair sees fleet grounded over safety 
concerns appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The fleet of British Airways' (BA) South African franchisee Comair was grounded over safety concerns. 
The South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) decided to revoke the regional carrier's right to fly indefinitely on 
Sunday, after a 24-hour ban issued the day before due to fears of engine failures and landing gear malfunctions. 
"The suspension follows the visit by the SACAA to the Operator to investigate and determine the cause of a spate 
of occurrences affecting a concerning number of flights operated by Kulula.com and BA Comair," the agency said in 
a statement. 
SACAA reported that three issues found in its investigation pose an immediate risk to safety and security. 
Comair's chief executive Glenn Orsmond called the aviation authority's decision "a huge blow to our customers, 
employees and the flying public."
"The implications for the aviation sector and the country are considerable should the suspension continue for any 
length of time."
"Our priority now is to assist passengers who have been stranded. We have chartered two aircraft to assist 
vulnerable passengers and those who most urgently need to travel."
SACAA's verdict comes less than a month after a Comair plane was forced to make a dramatic emergency landing 
because of a faulty landing gear.
BA's South African franchisee Comair sees fleet grounded over safety concerns
The flight left the Eastern Cape city of East London on 20 February headed towards Johannesburg but was forced 
to go back to the airport a few minutes later, City A.M. reported.
Read more
Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights
The post BA's South African franchisee Comair sees fleet grounded over safety concerns  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 16, 2022
End of Document
' Britain is back in business': Covid-19 tests for vaccinated travellers scrapped
'Britain is back in business': Covid-19 tests for vaccinated travellers 
scrapped
Cityam.com
January 24, 2022 Monday 1:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 325 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Fully vaccinated travellers flying into England will no longer require Covid-19 tests, Boris Johnson has 
confirmed. The government had been due to review the pandemic travel rules, amid calls from the aviation industry 
to cut curbs. Chief executives at Ryanair, Easyjet, British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Jet2 have sought assurance 
from government today that it [...]The post 'Britain is back in business': Covid-19 tests for vaccinated travellers 
scrapped appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Fully vaccinated travellers flying into England will no longer require Covid-19 tests, Boris Johnson has confirmed.
The government had been due to review the pandemic travel rules, amid calls from the aviation industry to cut 
curbs.
Chief executives at Ryanair, Easyjet, British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Jet2 have sought assurance from 
government today  that it will not haul in further border closures if a new variant emerges.
Read more
Tourism industry in danger as foreigners stay away
The airline bosses noted that travel restrictions have a "limited effect" in preventing the spread of Covid-19 and that 
aviation recovery "is vital; not just to the more than half a million people working in it, but to everyone who lives and 
works in the UK".
Government last week brought an end to so-called Plan B restrictions, which saw self-isolation rules and work from 
home guidance scrapped.
British Airways' chairman and CEO Sean Doyle said: "Today's announcement provides a welcome boost to the 
travel industry and UK economy... It sends a clear message to the rest of the world that global Britain is back in 
business." 
' Britain is back in business': Covid-19 tests for vaccinated travellers scrapped
A Virgin Atlantic spokesperson added that the removal of testing for vaccinated passengers is "the final step in 
moving towards frictionless air travel."
Ian Bell, head of travel and tourism at audit and consulting firm RSM said that the move is "another win for the 
travel sector" as it paves the way for more international travel and cheaper holidays. 
"The industry will always be cautious of any new variants and the reintroduction of measures, and like everyone it 
will need to learn to live with Covid-19; but today it is hoped that the sector is entering a period of stability with 
which the industry can look to recover."
Read more
Hong Kong's 'draconian' travel restrictions push out corporate expats, says report
The post 'Britain is back in business': Covid-19 tests for vaccinated travellers scrapped  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
British Airways extends Loganair partnership in domestic offer ramp-up
British Airways extends Loganair partnership in domestic offer ramp-up
Cityam.com
February 1, 2022 Tuesday 2:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 263 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways' (BA) passengers from today will have access to 38 of Loganair's routes, following the 
companies' decision to expand their codeshare agreement. Under the extended partnership, customers will be able 
to book onward connections from destinations across the Loganair's network, including Derry to London and 
Liverpool or Exeter to Edinburgh, Glasgow and Newcastle. To [...]The post British Airways extends Loganair 
partnership in domestic offer ramp-up appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways' (BA) passengers from today will have access to 38 of Loganair's routes, following the companies' 
decision to expand their codeshare agreement.
Under the extended partnership, customers will be able to book onward connections from destinations across the 
Loganair's network, including Derry to London and Liverpool or Exeter to Edinburgh, Glasgow and Newcastle. 
To boost connectivity among regions and with abroad, BA passengers travelling from Aberdeen and the Isle of Man 
to Manchester will be able to use their code share flights with international carriers part of the 'oneworld alliance'. 
"It is great news to be expanding our longstanding codeshare agreement with Loganair," said BA's director of 
network and alliance Neil Chernoff. 
"This will create better connectivity and offer more choice for our customers between UK regions and destinations 
all over the world thanks to our expansive global route network and Loganair's extensive regional services."
To ramp up demand and compete with short-haul rivals such as Easyjet and Ryanair, BA will restart flying from 
Gatwick from March 2022, already selling tickets for 35 short-haul destinations that will be part of its subsidiary 
British Airways*.
The subsidiary will begin to operate as a standalone business from August, with BA initially running short-haul 
flights until its Air Operators certificate is ready, City A.M. reported. 
Read more
British Airways extends Loganair partnership in domestic offer ramp-up
Face masks on flights are not going anywhere, experts warn
The post British Airways extends Loganair partnership in domestic offer ramp-up  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 1, 2022
End of Document
Supreme Court ruling could lead to boom in flight refund solicitors, legal expert says
Supreme Court ruling could lead to boom in flight refund solicitors, legal 
expert says
Cityam.com
March 16, 2022 Wednesday 6:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 433 words
Byline: Louis Goss
Highlight: The UK's Supreme Court today said solicitors claiming refunds for delayed and cancelled flights have a 
right to claim any legal costs from clients. Legal experts speaking to City A.M. said the Supreme Court ruling, which 
allows law firms to cover their legal costs using refunded money, is likely to embolden solicitors and lead to [...]The 
post Supreme Court ruling could lead to boom in flight refund solicitors, legal expert says appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The UK's Supreme Court today said solicitors claiming refunds for delayed and cancelled flights have a right to 
claim any legal costs from clients.
Legal experts speaking to City A.M. said the Supreme Court ruling, which allows law firms to cover their legal costs 
using refunded money, is likely to embolden solicitors and lead to a boom in the number of law firms providing flight 
refund services.
In a legal battle between Cheshire based law firm Bott & Co and aviation giant Ryanair, the Supreme Court said 
there does not have to be a legal dispute, in order for a solicitor's firm to have a right to a "lien," which allows a law 
firm to cover their own legal fees using any winnings.
The ruling means that law firms, such as Bott & Co, are able to claim a "lien," even if the only work they have done 
is simply claiming a refund for a delayed flight - and no legal dispute has been brought forward.
Speaking to City A.M. Bryan Shacklady, a senior solicitor at Forsters, explained the Supreme Court ruling will 
"embolden" law firms, and give them "more confidence" they will be paid for any work they do in claiming refunds, 
as he suggested the ruling may "make solicitors more willing to do this kind of work".
"Firstly, it gives lawyers more certainty they'll be paid for this kind of work, and secondly it means claims are more 
likely to be brought," Shacklady said.
Supreme Court ruling could lead to boom in flight refund solicitors, legal expert says
The lawyer said that on the upside, the ruling may "widen access to justice," as any boom in the number of law 
firms working to claim refunds on a no win, no fee basis would likely lead to a rise in the number of successful 
refunds.
However, Shacklady said such a boom in solicitors firms claiming refunds from airlines will also result in more 
people paying for a service that they "could well do themselves."
Shacklady noted that the majority of work done by law firms such as Bott & Co in claiming refunds is carried out by 
automated robots. "There's no human intervention until very late in the day," the lawyer noted. 
He added that the decision sits in line with a longer-term trend towards keeping dispute resolution out of court, with 
a view to reducing the pressure on the UK's court system and cutting the court backlog. 
The Supreme Court ruling comes as the UK justice system has increasingly sought to push people towards 
mediation. It also comes ahead of government plans to allow for no-fault divorce.
Read more
Slater & Gordon cuts divorce fees in half ahead of new laws allowing for 'no-fault divorce'
The post Supreme Court ruling could lead to boom in flight refund solicitors, legal expert says  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 16, 2022
End of Document
Athens calling: UK airlines prepare for Greece summer boom
Athens calling: UK airlines prepare for Greece summer boom
Cityam.com
November 8, 2021 Monday 12:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 228 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: UK airlines are increasing the number of flights to Greece in preparation for next summer's boom in 
tourism, the FinancialThe post Athens calling: UK airlines prepare for Greece summer boom appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
UK airlines are increasing the number of flights to Greece in preparation for next summer's boom in tourism, the 
Financial Times reported. 
Carriers are ramping up their pre-pandemic capacity, with Jet2 adding 1 million seats compared to 2019's capacity 
and Easyjet increasing its tickets by 500,000. 
"Having met most of the tour operators and airline companies here in the UK . . . we are very, very optimistic about 
2022," Greece's tourism minister Vassilis Kikilias told the Financial Times. 
According to the Kikilias, the Greek Government is expecting that 35 per cent more UK tourists will visit the country 
next summer, and it has already started working on deals with airlines to secure airport slots in exchange for 
guarantee of flight. 
Faith in the recovery of foreign travel is widespread, with companies such as Ryanair announcing the launch of 500 
routes for summer 2022. 
In April, the carrier's director of commercial Jason McGuinness said: "With over 10,000 flights every week and 
further destinations to be released in the coming months, customers can now make travel plans for summer 2022 
with greater ease. 
"We have launched routes to firm favourites such as Malaga, Malta, Palermo, Venice, Faro, Tenerife and the Greek 
Islands, with many more to be added soon."
The post Athens calling: UK airlines prepare for Greece summer boom  appeared first on CityAM. 
Athens calling: UK airlines prepare for Greece summer boom
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
British Airways slashes 2,000 flights until end of March
British Airways slashes 2,000 flights until end of March
Cityam.com
December 7, 2021 Tuesday 11:57 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways (BA) has reportedly slashed around 2,000 flights, removing them from its schedules until 
the end of March. The flights were cancelled between 26 November and 3 December, but appear to be unrelated to 
the UK Government's decision to re-introduce mandatory pre-departure and day 2 PCR tests, aviation news site 
Simple Flying reported. According [...]The post British Airways slashes 2,000 flights until end of March appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways (BA) has reportedly slashed around 2,000 flights, removing them from its schedules until the end of 
March. 
The flights were cancelled between 26 November and 3 December, but appear to be unrelated to the UK 
Government's decision to re-introduce mandatory pre-departure and day 2 PCR tests, aviation news site Simple 
Flying reported.
According to data from aviation analytics firm Cirium, January was hit the hardest with 1,146 cancelled flights, 
followed by December and March, with 545 and 243 flights less respectively.
The airline trimmed both domestic and long-haul destinations - including rotations on the Belfast-Glasgow and 
Belfast-Birmingham routes as well as several flights to South Africa. 
Just yesterday the shares of BA's parent company IAG - alongside the like of Easyjet and Ryanair - jumped as a 
result of airlines shrugging off concerns about the Omicron variant.
IAG's stocks yesterday touched a peak of 142.26p, hiking from a 127.66p bottom, while this morning they opened 
at a record 145.00p, the highest in a week.
Read more
Ex British Airways boss slams tougher Omicron travel rules as 'knee-jerk decision' as UK firms worry about 
Christmas
British Airways slashes 2,000 flights until end of March
The post British Airways slashes 2,000 flights until end of March  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 7, 2021
End of Document
Regulators call on airlines to comply with consumer law if they want to avoid enforcement
Regulators call on airlines to comply with consumer law if they want to avoid 
enforcement
Cityam.com
July 21, 2022 Thursday 9:58 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 450 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) and the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) have warned 
airlines they could face enforcement action if they fail to comply with consumer law. In a joint letter sent to carriers 
today, the regulators said they were concerned about consumers experiencing harm “unless airlines meet their 
obligations” and “minimise flight disruption [...]The post Regulators call on airlines to comply with consumer law if 
they want to avoid enforcement appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) and the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) have warned airlines they 
could face enforcement action if they fail to comply with consumer law.
In a joint letter sent to carriers today, the regulators said they were concerned about consumers experiencing harm 
“unless airlines meet their obligations” and “minimise flight disruption throughout the summer and beyond.”
The CAA and CMA said they were going over evidence and if they found consumers were still facing major 
problems, they would consider further action – including enforcement.
Some carriers were accused of engaging in harmful practices, including selling more tickets than they could supply 
and not providing customers with sufficiently clear information about their rights. 
“Airlines should assess and review all the key factors which could lead to flights being cancelled, and take steps to 
mitigate these or stop advertising flights where their assessment suggests there is a high likelihood of cancellation,” 
the statement read. 
The letter comes on the heels of both airlines and airports reducing the number of flights to ensure smoother 
operations. 
Earlier this month, British Airways (BA) cancelled around 18 per cent of flights for July, August and September, 
while Heathrow was forced to cap daily departing passengers to 100,000.
Regulators call on airlines to comply with consumer law if they want to avoid enforcement
Under consumer law, airlines should offer stranded passengers re-routing solutions, either using their own flights or 
a replacement with another carrier.
But some companies, including Easyjet, ask passengers to make their own arrangements – refunding the ticket’s 
cost afterwards.
The CMA and CAA said they were concerned about airlines’ rerouting practices, as they could be in breach of 
professional diligence standards.
“We urge airlines operating this practice to quickly put in place mechanisms for these consumers to ensure re-
routing is a viable option for them,” the watchdogs said. 
Over the last few weeks, consumer champion Which? has called for a significant overhaul of travel rules, reporting 
the likes of Easyjet for mistreating passengers amidst the travel chaos. 
“A major overhaul is desperately needed, so the government must give the CAA stronger powers so it can hit 
operators with heavy fines when necessary,” said Which?’s travel editor Rory Boland on 7 July.
Which? had accused the likes of Ryanair, British Airways (BA) and TUI of breaking consumer law by either 
“blacklisting” or adopting a misleading language over refund policies.
Read more
Emirates accuses Heathrow of being ‘cavalier’ after refusing to comply with cap
The post Regulators call on airlines to comply with consumer law if they want to avoid enforcement  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 21, 2022
End of Document
Pandemic not over: Omicron variants drive surge of covid cases by 32 per cent in a week
Pandemic not over: Omicron variants drive surge of covid cases by 32 per 
cent in a week
Cityam.com
July 1, 2022 Friday 11:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 369 words
Byline: Jack Mendel
Highlight: Coronavirus cases in the UK have spiked by more than 30 per cent in a week, while hospitalisation rate 
was up to 11 per cent, from eight. New figures released by the Office for National Statistics show a surge in cases 
from 24 June, up to 2.3m from 1.8m people across the UK. The Omicron [...]The post Pandemic not over: Omicron 
variants drive surge of covid cases by 32 per cent in a week appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Coronavirus cases in the UK have spiked by more than 30 per cent in a week, while hospitalisation rate was up to 
11 per cent, from eight.
New figures released by the Office for National Statistics show a surge in cases from 24 June, up to 2.3m from 
1.8m people across the UK.
The Omicron variant and sub-variants have been identified as the main driver, with 1,829,100 (1 in 30) people 
infected in England, and almost 300,000 in Scotland (1 in 18). A week earlier in England it was just 1 in 40.
According to the UK Health Security Agency’s latest report, released on Thursday, the number of hospitalisations 
related to covid in the last week also increased, but deaths remained stable.
Admissions were at 11.11 per 100,000 compared to 7.98 the previous week, while people entering intensive care 
for the virus was up to 0.27 out of 100,00, up from 0.2 per cent at the last recording.
Read more
Ryanair and pilot union Balpa reach agreement on post-Covid pay restoration
Dr Mary Ramsay, Director of Clinical Programmes at the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA), said: “We continue 
to see an increase in COVID-19 data, with a rise in case rates and hospitalisations in those aged 65 years and 
over, and outbreaks in care homes.
Pandemic not over: Omicron variants drive surge of covid cases by 32 per cent in a week
“We can also now see a rise in ICU admissions in older age groups.”
“It’s reassuring that 83.5 per cent of people aged 75 and over have had a vaccine in the past six months but we 
urge the remaining 16.5 per cent, as well as those living in care homes or who are clinically vulnerable, to get their 
spring booster for protection against serious illness. Vaccination remains the best defence against severe disease 
and hospitalisation.”
“COVID-19 has not gone away and we should all remember to keep up good hand and respiratory hygiene. It is 
also sensible to wear a face covering in crowded, enclosed spaces. If you have any symptoms of a respiratory 
infection, and a high temperature or feel unwell, try to stay at home or away from others – especially elderly or 
vulnerable people.”
Read more
Oxford Biomedica extends deal with AstraZeneca to make Covid vaccines beyond 2022
The post Pandemic not over: Omicron variants drive surge of covid cases by 32 per cent in a week  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 1, 2022
End of Document
Jet2 becomes first UK carrier to drop mandatory mask policy
Jet2 becomes first UK carrier to drop mandatory mask policy
Cityam.com
March 3, 2022 Thursday 1:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 384 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Passengers are no longer obliged to wear a face mask aboard Jet2 flights, as Jet2 was the first UK 
carrier to drop the requirement. "It's no longer a legal requirement to wear a face mask at our airports or onboard 
our planes," the airline said in a statement. "However, as per UK government guidance, we [...]The post Jet2 
becomes first UK carrier to drop mandatory mask policy appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Passengers are no longer obliged to wear a face mask aboard Jet2 flights, as Jet2 was the first UK carrier to drop 
the requirement.
"It's no longer a legal requirement to wear a face mask at our airports or onboard our planes," the airline said in a 
statement. 
"However, as per UK government guidance, we recommend that you continue to wear a face mask in these 
spaces, and you will need to wear one when you get to your overseas destination."
Following the government's decision to lift all covid-travel restrictions, more carriers are expected to join Jet2, some 
earlier than others.
Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary has told journalists that measures are constantly kept under review and 
the company might decide to remove the need to wear face coverings at the end of March.
"I think we would certainly keep mandatory face masks at airports for crews and passengers on board our aircraft 
until the end of March, I think we'll review at the end of March," he said yesterday during a press conference. "I 
would probably said they'll probably stay there to April, you know there a lot of families travelling during Easter 
holiday in April.
"But I'd like to see it come to an end maybe by the end of April."
According to O'Leary, given the widespread nature of Ryanair's business, this will be an either or decision as the 
airline doesn't want to have different rule for different countries.
Jet2 becomes first UK carrier to drop mandatory mask policy
Other major UK carriers such as British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Easyjet said that, while continuning to monitor 
the situation, masks are staying on for the time being.
"The health and safety of our customers and crew remains Virgin Atlantic's number one priority and we continuously 
review all our Covid health measures, while we adhere to guidance and requirements of international and local 
aviation regulators and governments," a Virgin Atlantic's spokesperson told City A.M. 
"Whilst we continue to work together across industry to see when changes can be made, we will require all 
customers and crew to continue to wear face masks for the duration of their flights, as well as at the airport, until 
further notice."
Read more
New UK sanctions: Russian aviation and space industry blocked from insurance market
The post Jet2 becomes first UK carrier to drop mandatory mask policy  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 3, 2022
End of Document
London Stock Exchange raises nearly £17bn in highest IPO funding since 2007
London Stock Exchange raises nearly £17bn in highest IPO funding since 
2007
Cityam.com
December 29, 2021 Wednesday 1:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 255 words
Byline: Farah Ghouri
Highlight: London Stock Exchange (LSE) companies have raised the most IPO funding in one year than in the last 
14 years. Combined the 122 companies listed on the LSE raised over £16.8bn in 2021 - beating competition from 
the top exchange in Europe and raising the most equity outside of the US and China. The LSE's [...]The post 
London Stock Exchange raises nearly £17bn in highest IPO funding since 2007 appeared first on CityAM.
Body
London Stock Exchange (LSE) companies have raised the most IPO funding in one year than in the last 14 years. 
Combined the 122 companies listed on the LSE raised over £16.8bn in 2021 - beating competition from the top 
exchange in Europe and raising the most equity outside of the US and China. The LSE's total capital raised in the 
year hit just shy of £50bn, made up from £16.8bn in IPOs and the rest in additional offerings by existing listed 
companies. 
Read more
Aptamer IPO: the next Biotech stock to watch?
The news marks a strong first year for the capital markets unit of the LSE Group (LSEG). Group head of the 
division, Murray Roos, said: "The integration of Refinitiv brought our FX, fixed income, and equities businesses 
together to form LSEG's capital markets division." 
The businesses have enjoyed strong growth, new customers and record figures, he added, referring to total FX 
volumes surpassing $680bn - a new daily record. 
The news comes as capital raising in the City has picked up in spite of ongoing Covid disruptions and as listed firms 
drew close to £25bn in this year. 
London Stock Exchange raises nearly £17bn in highest IPO funding since 2007
The year was also the biggest in over a decade for AIM, London's growth market, with £9bn raised in IPO and 
follow-on capital - also the highest since 2007. The boom was driven in part by a rush of activity with 64 companies 
admitted in 2021 raising more than £3bn. 
Read more
Ryanair stops trading on LSE over post-Brexit regulations
The post London Stock Exchange raises nearly £17bn in highest IPO funding since 2007  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 29, 2021
End of Document
London markets shake off Omicron fears as investors brace for Christmas break
London markets shake off Omicron fears as investors brace for Christmas 
break
Cityam.com
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 9:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 346 words
Byline: Jack Barnett
Highlight: London markets have shaken off fears over the Omicron variant's impact on the UK's economic recovery 
from the pandemic as investors brace for the Christmas break. The capital's premier FTSE 100 index closed 0.61 
per cent higher at 7,341.66 points, while the mid-cap FTSE 250 index, which is more aligned to the health of the 
[...]The post London markets shake off Omicron fears as investors brace for Christmas break appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
London markets have shaken off fears over the Omicron variant's impact on the UK's economic recovery from the 
pandemic as investors brace for the Christmas break.
The capital's premier FTSE 100 index closed 0.61 per cent higher at 7,341.66 points, while the mid-cap FTSE 250 
index, which is more aligned to the health of the UK economy, added over one per cent to reach 23,080.79 points.
Read more
Omicron delivers 'chilling' blow to UK retail sales
The indexes have now regained and scaled above their Monday losses when concern about looming restrictions to 
curb Omicron infections took off.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson yesterday confirmed there would be no new restrictions on daily life before Christmas.
But, Johnson did not rule out new curbs being launched immediately after Christmas Day.
London markets rebounded sharply yesterday, regaining Monday's losses.
Michael Hewson, chief market analysts at CMC Markets UK, said: "While some elements in government seem only 
too keen to lock down their populations, there does appear to be growing pushback for reaching for the lockdown 
lever every time things get difficult when infection rates start to rise."
London markets shake off Omicron fears as investors brace for Christmas break
"It is slowly being recognised that lockdowns are a crude tool which inflict considerable economic, social and mental 
health damage, which some in government thankfully appear to be slowly beginning to recognise, and yesterday's 
market rebound appears to be a reflection of that realisation."
Miners and travel stocks led the FTSE 100 higher today, with aerospace engineer Rolls Royce and InterContinental 
Hotels Group climbing 3.30 per cent and 2.70 per cent respectively.
Read more
Ryanair expects losses to double as Omicron eats into bookings
Antofagasta and Glencore rose more than 1.60 per cent.
Meanwhile, on the FTSE 250, Cambridge-based cyber security firm Darktrace was among the best performers, 
soaring 4.16 per cent.
The pound gained ground on the greenback, strengthening 0.66 per cent to buy $1.3352.
The post London markets shake off Omicron fears as investors brace for Christmas break  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Norwegian Air emerges from restructuring with wings clipped
Norwegian Air emerges from restructuring with wings clipped
Cityam.com
May 26, 2021 Wednesday 12:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 243 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Norwegian Air has today emerged from a six month restructuring process, defying those who thought 
the pandemic would spell theThe post Norwegian Air emerges from restructuring with wings clipped appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Norwegian Air has today emerged from a six month restructuring process, defying those who thought the pandemic 
would spell the end for the carrier.
However, despite surviving the worst aviation crisis on record, the airline will return to the skies in utterly different 
shape - and much smaller - than it was before the pandemic struck.
"We have saved an airline that is of huge value to Norway and which binds our long country together," chief 
executive Jacob Schram told a news conference.
Last week the carrier said that it had raised the 6bn Norwegian crowns (£509m) necessarily for it to exit bankruptcy 
protection.
It will operate solely as a short-haul airline, having discontinued the transatlantic operation that fuelled its rapid 
growth, with a fleet of just 51 aircraft.
Prior to the pandemic, it had 156 planes. It has also cancelled 85bn Norwegian crowns (£7bn) worth of orders from 
Boeing and Airbus.
Many had predicted that the pandemic would prove too much for the carrier, which has already heavily indebted 
before air travel ground to a near complete halt.
And while it was undergoing restructuring, several other airlines have made inroads into its new core Scandinavian 
markets.
Norwegian Air emerges from restructuring with wings clipped
Fellow low-cost carriers Wizz Air and Ryanair have both opened new services to Norway, while a new national 
start-up airline, Flyr, is due to launch by the middle of the year.
The post Norwegian Air emerges from restructuring with wings clipped  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
Airline shares fall as Balearics moved to amber list
Airline shares fall as Balearics moved to amber list
Cityam.com
July 15, 2021 Thursday 9:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 482 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Airline shares took another fall this morning as the industry reacted with dismay to the announcement 
that the Balearic IslandsThe post Airline shares fall as Balearics moved to amber, MPs call for furlough extension 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Airline shares took another fall this morning as the industry reacted with dismay to the announcement that the 
Balearic Islands would be added back onto the "amber list" from Monday.
The decision to reimpose additional restrictions on the popular holiday destination comes just weeks after Majorca, 
Menorca and Ibiza were added to the "green list".
The sector accused the government of "shattering consumer trust during an already unpredictable booking season".
And a group of 77 MPs called for furlough to be extended until March 2022 for travel and tourism businesses to 
prevent "significant job losses" when the scheme closes in September.
After an hour of trading, BA owner IAG was down 1.0 per cent, as was Hungarian flier Wizz Air. Easyjet and 
Ryanair, which had both ramped up flights to the Balearics, were down 1.8 and 0.2 per cent respectively.
But it was holiday giant Tui that led the way, falling 2.4 per cent in early trading.
Although those who have been double vaccinated by the NHS can still travel to amber list countries without needing 
to quarantine, the decision to put the islands back on the "amber list" risks trashing summer plans for thousands of 
younger people.
Airlines UK chief executive Tim Alderslade said: "[This] announcement reinforces the belief that the current 
Government framework for international travel is not working as it was designed to. 
Airline shares fall as Balearics moved to amber list
"While the vaccination programme is permitting a full reopening of the domestic economy, international travel 
between safe countries - with low infections and high vaccination rates - is still being portrayed as though it is a 
serious danger to public health. 
"Moving countries between the tiers like this is shattering consumer trust during an already unpredictable booking 
season. It is time the Government implemented a consistent and transparent travel policy, rather than the current 
rollercoaster ride of changes, which is condemning international travel to the status of second-class citizen."
And MPs once again rallied to the sector, issuing yet another call for the government to give it extra assistance 
while the restrictions remain.
In a letter to the Chancellor, Henry Smith, chair of the future of aviation APPG, said: "With a lost summer season 
coming on top of the worst fifteen months in the history of UK aviation, without the continuing support of the 
[furlough scheme] the risk of significant redundancies will become a stark and devastating reality."
According to the latest ONS figures, 57 per cent of employees in passenger air transport and 51 per cent of those 
employed by travel agency and tour operators remain on furlough.
The letter was also signed by former ministers Esther McVey, Steve Baker, Tobias Ellwood and the chair of the 
Foreign Affairs Select Committee Tom Tugendhat.
The post Airline shares fall as Balearics moved to amber, MPs call for furlough extension  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 15, 2021
End of Document
Long-haulers slam APD hike as it "will penalise Global Britain "
Long-haulers slam APD hike as it "will penalise Global Britain"
Cityam.com
October 27, 2021 Wednesday 5:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 395 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Long-haul carriers have criticised the Chancellor's decision to increase air passenger duty (APD) rates 
for flights longer than 5,500 miles.The post Long-haulers slam APD hike as it "will penalise Global Britain" appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Long-haul carriers have criticised the Chancellor's decision to increase air passenger duty (APD) rates for flights 
longer than 5,500 miles. 
Luis Gallego, chief executive at British Airways' parent company IAG, said the move "will penalise Global Britain" at 
a time when the country should be more competitive on the global stage. 
"We need to get Britain back on its feet by supporting entrepreneurs trying to generate new business across the 
world, restoring connectivity and enabling aviation to support UK´s trading economy, growth and jobs," Gallego 
said.
A Virgin Atlantic spokesperson called the levy "fundamentally flawed", adding that "the UK Government has missed 
a vital opportunity", especially during a time when airlines are still recovering from the pandemic. 
"It will fail to reward increased efficiency or reduced carbon emissions," they said. "Passengers will pay the same 
rate of APD whether flying with modern, fuel efficient airlines such as Virgin Atlantic, or those with a fleet of older, 
less efficient aircraft."
To justify his decision to increase per passenger taxes to £91, Sunak explained today that those subjected to the 
levy will be a minority of all UK travellers.
"Less than 5 per cent of passengers will pay more, but those who fly the furthest will pay more," he said today 
during the Budget speech. 
Long-haulers slam APD hike as it "will penalise Global Britain "
The decision comes at the same time the government decided to lower APD for domestic flights to benefit domestic 
travellers and regional hubs. Easyjet's chief executive welcomed the news, claiming it will help better reflect how 
carbon emissions are produced and by whom. 
"Easyjet continues to offset all its emissions from the fuel used, and we urge the Government to use the funds 
raised by APD to support investment in the development of zero emission technologies," Lundgren commented. 
Ryanair argued that the government, by delaying the reduction in APD to 2023, missed a great opportunity to 
kickstart tourism.
"Unfortunately, this delay will only damage the airline industry's ability to rebuild connectivity, jobs and tourism," 
said a spokesperson. "Ryanair calls on the UK Government to fully abolish APD immediately for all travel, which 
would give tourism a much-needed boost for this winter and more particularly, next summer."
The post Long-haulers slam APD hike as it "will penalise Global Britain"  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 27, 2021
End of Document
City centre hotels hammered by Covid restrictions on travel
City centre hotels hammered by Covid restrictions on travel
Cityam.com
June 23, 2021 Wednesday 2:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 374 words
Byline: Hannah Godfrey
Highlight: Hotels located in city centres are "really struggling" as Brits pick resorts over cities and travel restrictions 
curb tourism. MostThe post City centre hotels hammered by Covid restrictions on travel appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Hotels located in city centres are "really struggling" as Brits pick resorts over cities and travel restrictions curb 
tourism.
Most hotels in British resorts like Cornwall are full, but city centre hotels are only between 30 and 40 per cent 
booked, according to data from hotel technology provider Avvio.
London has seen a 32 per cent increase in bookings in the last two months, compared with 31 per cent for the UK 
as a whole, but it is struggling mainly due to the lack of tourists visiting the capital.
Just 12 per cent of those searching 'greater London hotels' are from outside Europe, according to Avvivo's data, 
which would typically be much higher.
Avvio chief commercial officer Michael De Jongh urged British holidaymakers to consider having a UK city break.
"With the UK's resorts pretty much full up for the summer months there's been some overspill into city centre 
hotels," he said. "But with no inbound international travel many of them are still really struggling."
The government has come under increasing pressure from those working in the travel industry to change course 
and reopen international travel.
Protests against travel restrictions are taking place today outside the House of Commons, as well as outside 
Holyrood and Stormont.
The UK's traffic light system for travel has proved so controversial that Ryanair, Stansted airport owner MAG, Tui 
and British Airways are taking the government to court over it.
City centre hotels hammered by Covid restrictions on travel
The lack of tourists entering the country then has a knock-on effect in cities like London, leading to hotels, 
restaurants, pubs and entertainment suffering and struggling to pull in profit.
Hotel cancellation rates in the UK are currently extremely low at around 4 per cent, but De Jongn fears if 
international travel is opened up, UK cancellation rates could reach 40 per cent. 
"It's not just about people booking both a hotel abroad and one in the UK," he continued. "There's also a growing 
trend of booking rooms at multiple UK hotels, and then cancelling all but one at the last minute. This causes 
incredible problems for hotels, in precisely the same way as multiple restaurant bookings did during Eat Out To 
Help Out."
The post City centre hotels hammered by Covid restrictions on travel  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 23, 2021
End of Document
Airlines avoid Belarus airspace as EU mulls sanctions
Airlines avoid Belarus airspace as EU mulls sanctions
Cityam.com
May 25, 2021 Tuesday 3:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 299 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: A growing number of airlines have stopped flying through Belarusia airspace after the "hijacking" of a 
Ryanair flight carrying aThe post Airlines avoid Belarus airspace as EU mulls sanctions appeared first on CityAM.
Body
A growing number of airlines have stopped flying through Belarusia airspace after the "hijacking" of a Ryanair flight 
carrying a dissident journalist.
Carriers including Lufthansa, KLM, SAS, Air France, LOT and Singapore Airlines have thus far announced they 
would stop flying over Belarus.
The decision to stop flying comes after the EU last night called for carriers to stop overflights, which earn the 
Eastern European country crucial revenues.
The EU is also working on further sanctions against the regime of President Alexander Lukashenko, who has 
cracked down on pro-democracy demonstrations after accusations of rigged elections.
And Eurocontrol, the bloc's air traffic control agency, recommended that airlines due to fly over Belarus be re-routed 
via the Baltic states.
Some 400 flights use Belarusian airspace daily and 100 of these are by EU or UK carriers, according to 
Eurocontrol. 
Before the Open: Get the jump on the markets with our early morning newsletter
Sunday's incident, which saw journalist Roman Protasevich detained, has met with outrage around the world.
The Ryanair plane, which was bound for Lithuania, was forced to land in Minsk on Sunday after Belarus claimed a 
bomb threat to the aircraft.
Yesterday the UK told airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace, and also stripped the country's flag carrier of its 
operating license.
Airlines avoid Belarus airspace as EU mulls sanctions
Today Grant Shapps said that Belarus' carriers will not be allowed in UK airspace without special authorisation.
"With immediate effect, Belarusian airlines will be prevented from entering UK airspace unless specifically 
authorised," the transport secretary said on Twitter.
Boris Johnson has said that the country will face consequences as a result of its actions.
The post Airlines avoid Belarus airspace as EU mulls sanctions  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 25, 2021
End of Document
Portugal debacle shows traffic light system risks another chaotic summer
Portugal debacle shows traffic light system risks another chaotic summer
Cityam.com
June 4, 2021 Friday 3:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 490 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: There was something inevitable about the government's decision to remove Portugal from the UK's 
quarantine-free travel list last night. DespiteThe post Portugal debacle shows traffic light system risks another 
chaotic summer appeared first on CityAM.
Body
There was something inevitable about the government's decision to remove Portugal from the UK's quarantine-free 
travel list last night.
Despite hopes that more countries could be added to the list, by the afternoon, holidaymakers, airline bosses and 
travel firms were once again facing the realisation that their best laid plans had once again been trampled on.
In their defence, ministers will point to the fact they have consistently said they would not hesitate to remove 
countries from the "green list" should the data demand it.
That it may do: without being privy to the details of the decision making process or the full set of data used, it is 
impossible for anyone to say for sure.
And while operating with an abundance of caution is understandable after the mistakes of the last year, it raises the 
prospect of another summer of last minute cancellations and midnight dashes for the border.
When he laid out the recommendations of the government's specially set-up Global Travel Taskforce in April, 
Shapps stressed that one of the main goals of the system was to give customers confidence to book and travel 
again.
Central to this was the plan to set up a "watch list" to keep track of countries at risk of moving from one category to 
another, in order to "give travellers confidence about the likelihood of changes".
Why, then, was the transport secretary hinting heavily up until two weeks ago that more countries would be added 
to the quarantine-free list "very soon" when the very opposite turned out to be true? 
Portugal debacle shows traffic light system risks another chaotic summer
And why, with the knowledge that Ryanair and Easyjet had between them added hundreds of extra flights to 
Portugal to cope with demand, did ministers not put Portugal on the watch list as soon as the first concerns over the 
increase in cases were aired? Or at the very least give airline bosses - who have repeatedly complained of being 
ignored by the government - a heads-up to avoid the last-minute scramble to repatriate Brits worried about being 
stuck abroad?
That the governing style of the Johnson administration is to delay until the decision has already been made by 
circumstance alone is an argument that has been trotted out ad nauseam over the last year.
But where it is possibly most damaging is that it strips ordinary people of the autonomy to take responsibility for 
themselves. Yes, the prospect of a trip to sunny Portugal is almost irresistible right now. But most people would find 
themselves quickly turned off from the prospect - the government's desired result - if they knew 10 days in 
quarantine was even a possibility.
Publish the data in full, at regular intervals, and let people understand how the decisions are taken. Use the "watch 
list" as it was presumably designed to be used. Then we can decide for ourselves on the level of risk and cost we 
are prepared to bear in order to travel.
The post Portugal debacle shows traffic light system risks another chaotic summer  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 4, 2021
End of Document
Airlines call on government to reopen travel despite possible restrictions
Airlines call on government to reopen travel despite possible restrictions
Cityam.com
December 20, 2021 Monday 2:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 318 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The aviation industry has called on the UK Government to either reopen travel or "come to the table with 
economic support." Airlines UK, the trade body that represents British carriers, has lambasted the government for 
its lack to support, saying "offering more debt to a sector that has already borrowed billions of pounds is not [...]The 
post Airlines call on government to reopen travel despite possible restrictions appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The aviation industry has called on the UK Government to either reopen travel or "come to the table with economic 
support."
Airlines UK, the trade body that represents British carriers, has lambasted the government for its lack to support, 
saying "offering more debt to a sector that has already borrowed billions of pounds is not sustainable."
"We are approaching the key booking period for the year and consumer sentiment is shot to pieces, due to the 
testing requirements imposed on travel that can cost hundreds of pounds when free NHS tests are available in 
other sectors," said Airlines UK's chief executive, Tim Alderslade. 
"We have a bleak few months ahead with potentially little to no revenue, yet still need to be able to deliver for 
passengers and UK plc in the spring and summer. 
"The cost to the wider economy will be hundreds of millions of pounds if we can't open up - not to mention the jobs 
and skills that will be lost from the sector, many permanently, across all parts of the UK. 
"We support 500,000 direct jobs. These can't be sustained if there is no demand." 
Alderslade's comments come amid industry calls asking Whitehall to help out ailing businesses. Just last week, low-
cost carrier Ryanair mocked Chancellor Rishi Sunak, urging him to "come back" from his travel to California and 
"help out."
"It's not often we plug our rivals, but there's plenty of flights from California back to the UK if you've got urgent 
business to attend to," the airline said in a tweet. 
Airlines call on government to reopen travel despite possible restrictions
As concerns over a possible strengthening of restrictions mount, the shares of British Airways' (BA) owner IAG and 
Easyjet have tanked, City A.M. reported. IAG went down 2.39 per cent to 128.88p while Easyjet registered a 1.22 
per cent decrease to 502.20p. 
Read more
Travel shares tank as lockdown concerns mount
The post Airlines call on government to reopen travel despite possible restrictions  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
End of Document
Which? calls for travel rule overhaul to hold airlines accountable when breaking consumer law
Which? calls for travel rule overhaul to hold airlines accountable when 
breaking consumer law
Cityam.com
June 29, 2022 Wednesday 11:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 462 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Consumer champion Which? has called for a significant overhaul of travel rules to hold airlines 
accountable when they flaunt consumers’ laws. The call comes at a delicate time for the aviation industry, as 
airlines and airports have been plagued by a raft of cancellations and delays caused by labour shortages and 
surging passenger demand . [...]The post Which? calls for travel rule overhaul to hold airlines accountable when 
breaking consumer law appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Consumer champion Which? has called for a significant overhaul of travel rules to hold airlines accountable when 
they flaunt consumers’ laws.
The call comes at a delicate time for the aviation industry, as airlines and airports have been plagued by a raft of 
cancellations and delays caused by labour shortages and surging passenger demand .
Which? today called on the government to expand the powers given to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), so that it 
could hit airlines who disregard consumer rights with hefty fines. 
The group also suggested setting up an airline code of conduct as well as making it mandatory for airlines to sign 
up to the alternative dispute resolution (ADR) system. 
Under the current legislation, airlines and airports are not obliged to sign up to ADR schemes, forcing travellers to 
go through lengthy court proceedings if they want to enforce their rights. 
“Consumer rights and laws are meaningless if they are not enforced,” said Rocio Concha, Which? Director of policy 
and advocacy. 
“The government must take action to restore consumer confidence in travel. 
“That should start with a consumer-focused code of conduct all airlines must adhere to, and stronger powers for the 
CAA, including the ability to fine operators directly when they break the rules.”
Which? calls for travel rule overhaul to hold airlines accountable when breaking consumer law
Concha’s comments are based on an investigation by the consumer group, which accused airlines of breaking 
consumer laws.
Ryanair was accused of “blacklisting” passengers as the airline’s terms and conditions state it could refuse to carry 
a passenger that “owes us any money in respect of a previous flight owing to payment having been dishonoured, 
denied or recharged against.”
The rule, the airline said, applied to around 850 passengers who used a debit or credit card chargeback to get a 
refund. 
British Airways was accused of incorrectly telling customers refunds could be given following a five-hour delay, 
instead of three, while TUI was blamed for its misleading language around compensation. 
The UK legacy carrier condemned Which?’s “unfounded and unsupported allegations” while TUI said it was 
consistently reviewing the language used in terms and conditions. 
Commenting on Which?’s call, aviation analyst Sally Gethin said the government and the CAA were already 
working on enforcement measures, including the drafting of an Aviation Passenger Charter. 
Developed in partnership with the industry by the end of the year, the charter is a “one-stop guide for consumers 
informing them of their rights and what they can reasonably expect of the aviation industry when flying.”
Read more
Lufthansa warns travel chaos ‘unlikely to improve’ in the coming weeks
The post Which? calls for travel rule overhaul to hold airlines accountable when breaking consumer law  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 29, 2022
End of Document
Portugal axed from travel 'green list': airline stocks dive and bosses fume
Portugal axed from travel 'green list': airline stocks dive and bosses fume
Cityam.com
June 4, 2021 Friday 8:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 571 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Airline stocks dropped as London's markets opened for trading today after the government removed the 
one popular holiday destination fromThe post Airline stocks dive and bosses fume after Portugal axed from UK 
travel 'green list' appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Airline stocks dropped as London's markets opened for trading today after the government removed the one 
popular holiday destination from its travel "green list".
Wizz Air led the fallers on the FTSE 250, dropping 3.5 per cent by the mid-afternoon, while Easyjet shed 1.9 per 
cent.
Easyjet had added hundreds of extra flights to Portugal when it was added to the "green list" three weeks ago, but 
from Tuesday it will be moved to the "amber list".
That means that travellers returning from the Iberian country will have to isolate for 10 days on their return.
As a result, Jet2, which had been planning on restarting its flights on 24 June, will now wait until 1 July.
Chief executive Steve Heapy called for "complete openness and transparency" from the government, saying he 
"simply could not" understand the decision.
On the FTSE 100, IAG dropped 0.6 per cent, leaving it among the highest fallers. Engineer Rolls-Royce, which 
earns revenue on the basis of the number of hours airlines fly using its jet engines, also fell 1.3 per cent.
The decision to remove Portugal - and add no new countries to the "green list" - was met with despair, anger and 
bafflement by aviation bosses.
Easyjet chief executive Johan Lundgren said the decision "simply wasn't justified" by the science.
"This shock decision to add Portugal to the Amber list is a huge blow to those who are currently in Portugal and 
those who have booked to be reunited with loved ones, or take a well-deserved break this summer. 
Portugal axed from travel 'green list': airline stocks dive and bosses fume
"When this framework was put together, consumers were promised a waiting list to allow them to plan. Yet the 
government has torn up its own rule book and ignored the science, throwing peoples' plans into chaos, with virtually 
no notice or alternative options for travel from the UK."
Michael O'Leary of Ryanair, which also added hundreds of flights, said the government was "just making it up as it 
goes".
And trade body Airlines UK described the decision as a "body blow" for the industry, which has been desperately 
clinging on after the worst crisis in aviation history.
Today the association wrote to the transport secretary asking him to lay out the reasons - and the data - that 
informed the decision.
"The Global Travel Taskforce report stated clearly that the Joint Biosecurity Centre will publish data and analysis to 
support the process of allocating countries. This has not happened, and decisions on country allocation remain 
clouded in mystery, making it impossible for airlines and our customers to plan", wrote chief executive Tim 
Alderslade. 
"It is entirely reasonable given the stakes involved that restrictions are proportionate and risk-based, and that 
businesses and travellers affected are able to scrutinise decisions based on transparent data." 
Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick this morning told the BBC he did not know how many cases there were of 
the new Nepal variant of the coronavirus.
Jenrick said it appeared to be a "further mutation of the Indian variant".
When asked how the Nepal variant could be used as a reason to remove Portugal from the green list if he did not 
know how many cases there were, Jenrick said: "We have seen that there are cases of it, they are picking this up, 
and we took the decision that it was better to be cautious whilst we learn about this new mutation of the variant."
The post Airline stocks dive and bosses fume after Portugal axed from UK travel 'green list'  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 4, 2021
End of Document
Jet2 to buy 36 new Airbus A321s in $5bn deal
Jet2 to buy 36 new Airbus A321s in $5bn deal
Cityam.com
August 31, 2021 Tuesday 2:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 390 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Package holiday provider Jet2 today announced that it would buy 36 new A321 neos from Airbus for 
$4.9bn (£3.6bn) inThe post Jet2 to buy 36 new Airbus A321s in $5bn deal appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Package holiday provider Jet2 today announced that it would buy 36 new A321 neos from Airbus for $4.9bn 
(£3.6bn) in a further note of positivity for the UK travel industry.
The aircraft will be delivered over a five year period, starting in 2023. The FTSE 250 firm can increase its order to 
60 aircraft if it wishes, with a total cost fo $8.1bn.
Jet2 said that it was making the purchase in order "to meet the future anticipated growth of its Leisure Travel 
business and to refresh its existing aircraft fleet".
The deal comes after 18 months of severe disruption for the travel industry, which has seen airlines cancel and 
defer new aircraft orders due to the collapse in flying.
But with short-haul travel especially now returning at a steady pace, airlines have begun to increase the size of their 
fleets again.
Earlier today Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary told a press conference that the airline was aiming to add 50 
planes a year to its fleet.
Jet2's deal will be a blow for Boeing, however, as it represents a switch of loyalties away from the US planemaker 
to its biggest rival.
The roughly 200-240-seat A321 neo has been outselling large versions of the Boeing 737 MAX by a wide margin, 
which only recently was recertified for flying after two fatal crashes.
Jet2 to buy 36 new Airbus A321s in $5bn deal
Jet2 executive chairman Philip Meeson said: "We are delighted to have placed this order with Airbus and are proud 
to operate this aircraft which has more seats, provides additional operating benefits through lower fuel consumption 
and is, in our opinion, the most efficient and environmentally friendly aircraft in its class today. 
"It will ensure our Customers have a wonderfully comfortable and enjoyable experience as they travel with us for 
their well-deserved holidays."
"We very much welcome Jet2.com's decision. Traditionally having been operating non fly-by-wire aircraft, we note 
with great satisfaction that after having tested a couple of leased A321s and run a comprehensive evaluation, 
Jet2.com is forward looking and investing in modern and future proof Airbus fly-by-wire technology",  said Christian 
Scherer, chief commercial officer and head of Airbus Internation.
"This is a testimony to Jet2.com's vision of efficiency, quality, performance and environmentally friendly flying."
The post Jet2 to buy 36 new Airbus A321s in $5bn deal  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 1, 2021
End of Document
Boeing receives additional confidence boost after Norwegian buys 50 737 MAX
Boeing receives additional confidence boost after Norwegian buys 50 737 
MAX
Cityam.com
May 30, 2022 Monday 10:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 360 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Boeing has received an additional confidence boost after Norwegian Air announced it has placed an 
order for 50 737 MAX and secured options for a further 30 planes at an undisclosed price. Norwegian called today's 
order a "landmark deal" as the carrier will go back to owning a significant chunk of its fleet, which is [...]The post 
Boeing receives additional confidence boost after Norwegian buys 50 737 MAX appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Boeing has received an additional confidence boost after Norwegian Air announced it has placed an order for 50 
737 MAX and secured options for a further 30 planes at an undisclosed price.
Norwegian called today's order a "landmark deal" as the carrier will go back to owning a significant chunk of its 
fleet, which is set to be delivered between 2025 and 2028. 
The carrier forced to lease its fleet last year during bankruptcy proceedings, which eventually saved it from 
collapsing.
"This is a landmark deal that sets out a path whereby Norwegian will own a large share of its fleet," commented 
Norwegian's chair Svein Harald Oygard. 
"This will result in lower all-in costs and increased financial robustness, enabling us to further solidify our Nordic 
stronghold."
The deal is seen as a the latest vote of confidence for Boeing as the manufacturer recovers from a troubled few 
months. 
Plagued by disappointing results, production delays and certification issues, Boeing's relations with some of its 
airline customers - including Norwegian - deteriorated early this year.
Norwegian said in February it was considering snubbing the US manufacturer for EU rival Airbus, while long-term 
customers Ryanair said it would revert to the second-hand market if Boeing's management didn't step up.
Boeing receives additional confidence boost after Norwegian buys 50 737 MAX
"This is another vote of confidence in the recertified and revitalised Boeing 737MAX," aviation analyst Sally Gethin 
told City A.M.
"Norwegian has always been a big fan of the MAX operating it even before the fatal crashes in 2018 and 2019 so 
this new order marks a renewed confidence in the aircraft that once struggled to return to the skies."
Under today's agreement, the airline will receive compensation for previous disputes over MAX and Dreamliner 
orders for a total of 2bn Norwegian crowns (£167.6m).
The airline is the second major deal Boeing has recently concluded, as earlier this month British Airways' owner 
IAG bought 50 737 aircraft - 25 MAX 10 and 25 737 MAX 8200, City A.M. reported. 
Read more
British Airways owner IAG buys 50 new 737 aircraft from Boeing
The post Boeing receives additional confidence boost after Norwegian buys 50 737 MAX  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 30, 2022
End of Document
Market roundup: Slowing US labour market recovery tempers Wall Street
Market roundup: Slowing US labour market recovery tempers Wall Street
Cityam.com
August 4, 2021 Wednesday 8:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 645 words
Byline: Jack Barnett
Highlight: US shares dropped sharply on Wednesday morning after weaker than expected payrolls data tempered 
investor sentiment. The blue-chip S&P 500The post Slowing US labour market recovery tempers Wall Street 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
US shares dropped sharply on Wednesday morning after weaker than expected payrolls data tempered investor 
sentiment.
The blue-chip S&P 500 dipped 0.42 per cent to 4,404, while the Dow Jones was clipped 0.78 per cent to 34,848. 
The tech-heavy Nasdaq edged down 0.06 per cent 14,752.
                     Read more:                     Demand 'peaks' as US services recovery slows
Latest research from ADP shows the number of payrolled employees in the US rose 330,000 over the last month, 
much lower than analysts' forecasts.
Yields on ten-year Treasuries were broadly flat at 1.2 per cent.
                     FTSE 100 jumps despite UK services recovery slowing                   
A closely watched survey tracking activity in the UK services business activity came in much higher than analysts' 
expectations, helping to lift London's FTSE 100 on Wednesday.
The capital's premier index added 0.29 per cent to reach 7,126 in afternoon trading.
The latest IHS Markit / CIPS purchasing managers' index for the UK services industry dropped to 59.6 in July, but 
did come in above an expected reading of 57.8, indicating output grew in last month, but at a slower rate compared 
to June.
                     Read more:                     PMI: Eurozone business activity grows at fastest pace for 15 years
Market roundup: Slowing US labour market recovery tempers Wall Street
Gains were also driven by strong performances among financial stocks, with fund managers Legal and General and 
Abrdn leading the way.
The rampant UK property market boosted housebuilder Taylor Whimpey's first half earnings, helping to surge up 
biggest riser rankings on the index - revenues came in just shy of £2.2bn on a record number of housing 
completions.
Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets UK, said: "There appear to be fewer concerns about 
economies in Europe, where vaccination levels are higher, although we are seeing some signs that economic 
activity may have peaked in the short term."
The domestically-focused FTSE 250 hit another record high on Wednesday, but pared back to rise 0.12 per cent to 
reach 23,316 in late afternoon trading, while AIM inched down 0.01 per cent to 1,258.
The pound lost 0.1 per cent against the greenback to buy $1.39.
                     Winners and losers                   
Bookmaker Entain was the day's best performer, climbing 5.77 per cent to £1,906.50 after rumours that it could be 
the subject of an improved takeover big from MGM Resorts gathered pace.
Energy provider SSE came second, adding 3.34 per cent to hit £1,510, while Legal and General came third, up 2.73 
per cent to £271 after it posted a strong set of results showing operating profits in the first half of this year rose 14 
per cent.
                     Read more:                     Number of holidaymakers on Ryanair flights doubles in July to 9.3m
Publisher Pearson led the day's biggest fallers on the FTSE 100, dropping 3.66 per cent to hit £785.60.
Miner Fresnillo took a hit of 2.36 per cent to drop to £818.60, while middle class favourite Ocado lost 2.2 per cent, 
down to £1,799.
                     Around the world                   
Asian shares fared well in overnight trading, helping to claw back losses registered at the start of the week.
China's CSI 300 and Hong Kong's Hang Seng both added 0.9 per cent and 1.02 per cent respectively. However, 
Japan's Nikkei edged down 0.21 per cent.
Rising Covid cases have yet to dampen market sentiment, "but they easily could," analysts at ING warned.
"The return of Covid to China is our biggest concern. Aggressive measures should bring it under control - the 
question is, how fast, and at what economic cost."
European shares kicked off the day well, with the Stoxx 600 up 0.2 per cent to 465.
                     Read more:                     US stocks struggle for direction amid weakening economic outlook
The post Slowing US labour market recovery tempers Wall Street  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 4, 2021
End of Document
End of airport slots allocation leads to lower fares, says IEA
End of airport slots allocation leads to lower fares, says IEA
Cityam.com
May 26, 2022 Thursday 10:06 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 380 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ending the allocation of airport slots will lead to lower fares, according to a paper published today. The 
Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA) has argued that buying and selling airport slots on the market like any other 
goods will lead to more competition between airlines, ultimately improving consumers' choice. "The system 
weakens competition between airlines [...]The post End of airport slots allocation leads to lower fares, says IEA 
appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ending the allocation of airport slots will lead to lower fares, according to a paper published today.
The Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA) has argued that buying and selling airport slots on the market like any other 
goods will lead to more competition between airlines, ultimately improving consumers' choice. 
"The system weakens competition between airlines and leads to an inefficient allocation of an extremely valuable 
resource," said the report's author, Dr Kristian Niemetz. 
"It is about time to bring the slot allocation system into line with the rest of the air travel sector and expose it to 
market forces. 
"There should be no state allocator, and no special allocation rules."
Also known as landing slots, airport slots are the permission an airline has to depart or land from a specific airport 
at a specific time.
In most airports, slots are assigned by government administrators, who grant airlines an automatic right to use the 
space indefinitely. 
Before the pandemic, airlines were forced to use their slots 80 per cent of the time otherwise they risked loosing 
their spot under EU and UK rules. Initially scrapped because of Covid, the rules gradually reintroduced causing 
carriers to operate half-empty flights to retain their slots. 
End of airport slots allocation leads to lower fares, says IEA
In December, a row erupted between legacy and low-cost carriers after Lufthansa's chief executive Carsten Spohr 
complained about flying 18,000 "ghost flights" to maintain Lufthansa's position at airports. 
The German executive was lambasted by the bosses of Wizz Air and Ryanair, who said the called on the current 
rules to be scrapped as they were "distorting the market further by allowing access to certain airlines at the 
detriment to others who could actually do more there, more efficiently."
Aviation analyst Sally Gethin called the practice of granting rights indefinitely after use "outdate and complex."
"Some slots at the world's largest airports swap hands for millions of pounds squeezing out new entrants," she told 
City A.M. 
"Virgin Atlantic has long argued for an overhaul saying the current system gives IAG an unfair advantage at 
Heathrow.
Read more
UK puts jobs and passengers at centre of post-Covid aviation recovery
The post End of airport slots allocation leads to lower fares, says IEA  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 26, 2022
End of Document
BA restarts Gatwick operations, selling tickets for short-haul subsidiary
BA restarts Gatwick operations, selling tickets for short-haul subsidiary
Cityam.com
December 14, 2021 Tuesday 11:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 388 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways (BA) announced today it will restart flying from Gatwick from March 2022, selling tickets 
for 35 destinations that will be part of its short-haul subsidiary British Airways*'s operations. Created to compete 
with the likes of Easyjet and Ryanair, the subsidiary company will begin to operate as a standalone business from 
August, with BA [...]The post BA restarts Gatwick operations, selling tickets for short-haul subsidiary appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
British Airways (BA) announced today it will restart flying from Gatwick from March 2022, selling tickets for 35 
destinations that will be part of its short-haul subsidiary British Airways*'s operations.
Created to compete with the likes of Easyjet and Ryanair, the subsidiary company will begin to operate as a 
standalone business from August, with BA initially running short-haul flights until British Airways*'s Air Operators 
certificate is ready. 
Mainline BA will start with 3 short-haul Airbus planes, ramping up to 18 aircraft by the end of May.
"The creation of a new British Airways short-haul organisation means Gatwick customers will benefit from access to 
a premium service from the UK's flag carrier at competitive prices," said BA's boss Sean Doyle. "We are looking 
forward to bringing a short-haul network back to Gatwick, with a fantastic flying team in place, to serve our 
customers from London's second hub airport, which we feel sure will be a success."
BA recently started recruiting pilots for the Gatwick subsidiary, looking for applicants that can fly an Airbus A320 on 
European routes and possess "excellent leadership and teamwork, decision making and communication skills." 
After months of tensions between BA and unions - especially with the British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa) - the 
carrier finally received backing in early November, with Luis Gallego, boss of BA's owner IAG, telling Bloomberg 
that agreements were reached also with flight attendants' unions. 
Despite signing a letter asking Prime Minister Boris Johnson to remove travel restrictions and extend Covid-19 
loans, the carrier has decided to move on with its Gatwick plans.
BA restarts Gatwick operations, selling tickets for short-haul subsidiary
"We urgently request you meet with us, to understand the problems that we and our customers are now facing 
because of these measures, which the transport secretary himself admitted risked 'killing off' the travel industry. We 
urge you to act now to prevent this from happening," the letter - which was signed by Ryanair, Virgin Atlantic and 
BA's chief executives - read.
After witnessing a 5.29 per cent slump yesterday, today IAG's shares have gone up 0.98 per cent.
Read more
UK airlines ask PM to remove travel restrictions as Omicron pushes shares down
The post BA restarts Gatwick operations, selling tickets for short-haul subsidiary  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
BA in 'advanced' talks over new Gatwick carrier
BA in 'advanced' talks over new Gatwick carrier
Cityam.com
September 7, 2021 Tuesday 4:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 348 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: The chief executive of British Airways has said that the airline is in "advanced" talks with its unions over 
theThe post BA in 'advanced' talks over new Gatwick carrier appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The chief executive of British Airways has said that the airline is in "advanced" talks with its unions over the launch 
of a new low-cost carrier at Gatwick Airport.
Speaking at an event at Heathrow, Sean Doyle said that BA wanted to set up a unit with a "competitive cost 
platform".
However, he warned that if the negotiations failed, it would be unable to compete at the Crawley airport, where it 
has lost money for decades.
"We would consider alternatives for the slot portfolio," Doyle said, raising the prospect of selling them.
BA stopped operating flights from Gatwick last spring as the coronavirus pandemic forced the airlines industry to all 
but stop services.
The new carrier, which has been dubbed "BA Lite" by some, is slated to start operating next spring.
Initially it will fly services on 17 Airbus A320s, with plans to size up according to demand over the coming years.
It is understood that pilots' union BALPA is in favour of the plan, despite reports yesterday that BA pilots working for 
the new subsidiary would be paid less than rivals at Easyjet.
BA has also rejected suggestions that it will provide a "no frills" service, saying that passengers can expect the 
same level of service as it offers on its usual flights.
Not everyone has greeted the plan with enthusiasm. Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary last week called it the 
"definition of insanity".
BA in 'advanced' talks over new Gatwick carrier
He said it was far more difficult to run a low-cost service out of Gatwick than out of London airports like Luton and 
Stansted due to the comparative fees. 
                     UK travel rules 'not fit for purpose'                   
Speaking at today's event, Doyle also branded the UK's current travel regime "not fit for purpose".
He said that the traffic light system, which is next due for review next week, needed to be "simplified".
"We'd encourage the Government to look at seizing that opportunity in the next few weeks", he added.
"Aviation needs the same crack of the whip economically as other sectors are getting domestically."
The post BA in 'advanced' talks over new Gatwick carrier  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 7, 2021
End of Document
BA 's owner IAG looks at all options but steers clear of rights issue
BA's owner IAG looks at all options but steers clear of rights issue
Cityam.com
March 2, 2022 Wednesday 12:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 232 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways' (BA) owner IAG is reportedly looking at all options to best navigate the period's ups and 
downs but said it was for the moment steering clear of rights issues. IAG's boss Luis Gallego said that, while the 
group was starting to recover from the pandemic's impact, geopolitical and economic turmoils pushed it to [...]The 
post BA's owner IAG looks at all options but steers clear of rights issue appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways' (BA) owner IAG is reportedly looking at all options to best navigate the period's ups and downs but 
said it was for the moment steering clear of rights issues.
IAG's boss Luis Gallego said that, while the group was starting to recover from the pandemic's impact, geopolitical 
and economic turmoils pushed it to consider various business options.
"We don't have a plan right now to do a rights issue because in the current circumstances that we have, we see the 
recovery of the business, we see the high level of bookings," he told Reuters. 
"It is true that we are still in an environment of volatility and uncertainty so what we are analysing is what are the 
scenarios for the business. And always we have in mind that what we want is to maximise shareholders' value."
Gallego added that it would negligent on IAG's senior management not to consider even the most drastic choices 
such as asset sale and mergers with other airlines.
"The world is very uncertain now and we need to analyse all of them."
Despite registering a share slump in the past few days as a result of the Ukrainian conflict, Gallego commented that 
booking across the whole IAG network had not been affected and that rerouting was manageable.
Read more
"We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss
The post BA's owner IAG looks at all options but steers clear of rights issue  appeared first on CityAM. 
BA 's owner IAG looks at all options but steers clear of rights issue
Load-Date: March 3, 2022
End of Document
Around 15,000 'ghost flights' departed from UK, says aviation data
Around 15,000 'ghost flights' departed from UK, says aviation data
Cityam.com
April 11, 2022 Monday 2:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 561 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The Civil Aviation Authority has recently revealed that almost 15,000 "ghost flights" departed from 32 UK 
airports between March 2020 and September 2021.  With around 4,910 planes Heathrow made the top of the list, 
followed by Aberdeen, Manchester and Stansted, at an overall average of 720 per month. According to City A.M. 
estimates, that would [...]The post Around 15,000 'ghost flights' departed from UK, says aviation data appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
The Civil Aviation Authority has recently revealed that almost 15,000 "ghost flights" departed from 32 UK airports 
between March 2020 and September 2021. 
With around 4,910 planes Heathrow made the top of the list, followed by Aberdeen, Manchester and Stansted, at 
an overall average of 720 per month. According to City A.M. estimates, that would lead to a total of 300,000 tonnes 
of CO2 emitted.
Data obtained by the Guardian late last month also revealed that between October and December 2021 an average 
of 500 empty flights departed from the UK.
Ghost flights were used by UK and EU companies for various operational reasons, including retaining their slots 
under aviation rules. 
Francesco Ragni, aviation professor at Buckinghamshire New University, explained airlines operate ghost flights 
mainly due to the costs of non running operations.
"Airlines have always run 'ghost flights' for various operational reasons, but never at this gigantic scale," he told City 
A.M. today. 
"They are doing it for mere business reasons: the cost of running a number of flights with no passengers is lower 
than the cost associated with non-flying, most of all the opportunity costs derived from losing precious airport slots."
Around 15,000 'ghost flights' departed from UK, says aviation data
Introduced to foster healthy market competition, UK and EU carriers were forced to use their airport slots 80 per 
cent of the time to retain them the next year.
But when Covid hit, both the UK Government and the European Commission decided to scrap the regulation 
altogether. As the industry started to get back on its feet, the UK increased its slot rule to 70 per cent while the EU 
went up to 64. 
Airport slots and consequently ghost flights have in the last few months become a topic of debate between legacy 
and low-cost carriers.
The debacle originated in December when Lufthansa's boss Carsten Spohr complained about having to operate 
18,000 "extra, unnecessary flights just to secure our take-off and landing rights."
The German executive's comments sparked outrage among low-cost airlines, who accused bigger airlines of 
"crying crocodile tears."
"If Lufthansa doesn't want to operate 'ghost flights' to protect its slots, then simply sell these seats at low fares, and 
help accelerate the recovery of short and long haul air travel to and from Europe," said Ryanair's boss Michael 
O'Leary a few weeks later. 
If operating ghost flights makes economic sense for airlines, the environmental damage caused is substantial. 
A report published in January by Greenpeace predicted that this winter over 100,000 ghost flights would transit 
through Europe, emitting around 2.1 million tonnes of CO2 - the equivalent of the yearly emissions made by 1.4 
million cars. 
According to Transport and Environment's UK policy manager Matt Finch, the problem is that all flights, not just 
ghost flights, consume fuel. 
"Whether the planes are 90% full or 90% empty, the problem is they burn fossil fuel when flying, and airlines pay no 
tax on that fuel - unlike every single British motorist that is forced to pay," he told City A.M. "Slot regulation and 
ghost flights are, in the grand scheme of things, relatively minor issues, but airlines and government could and 
should do more to avoid them."
Read more
Heathrow marks highest passenger numbers since start of Covid
The post Around 15,000 'ghost flights' departed from UK, says aviation data  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: April 11, 2022
End of Document
Self-isolation, pre-departure tests scrapped for inbound arrivals to England
Self-isolation, pre-departure tests scrapped for inbound arrivals to England
Cityam.com
January 5, 2022 Wednesday 4:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 567 words
Byline: Stefan Boscia
Highlight: People arriving in England from overseas will no longer need to take a PCR test before their flight or be 
forced into self-isolation on arrival in a move that will provide sorely needed help to the UK's travel sector. Boris 
Johnson today said the measures were no longer needed due to the widespread prevalence of [...]The post Self-
isolation, pre-departure tests scrapped for inbound arrivals to England appeared first on CityAM.
Body
People arriving in England from overseas will no longer need to take a PCR test before their flight or be forced into 
self-isolation on arrival in a move that will provide sorely needed help to the UK's travel sector.
Boris Johnson today said the measures were no longer needed due to the widespread prevalence of Omicron and 
would be scrapped from 4am on Friday.
Read more
Empty planes: Omicron onslaught and travel restrictions hit Ryanair's passenger number
International arrivals will instead be asked to take a lateral flow test on arrival and to self-isolate if it comes back 
positive.
The news was warmly welcomed by the UK's aviation and tourism sectors, after the restrictions led to a large 
number of flight cancellations in December.
The changes in travel restrictions come alongside new rules that mean people will not need to confirm a positive 
lateral flow test with a PCR test from 11 January.
The Prime Minister said: "Our balanced approach also means that where specific measures are no longer serving 
their purpose, they will be dropped. So when the Omicron variant was first identified, we rightly introduced travel 
restrictions to slow its arrival in our country.
Self-isolation, pre-departure tests scrapped for inbound arrivals to England
"But now Omicron is so prevalent, these measures are having limited impact on the growth in cases, while 
continuing to pose significant costs on our travel industry."
A report last month from aviation analytics firm Cirium found that total UK air travel was down by 71 per cent in 
2021 from pre-pandemic levels. 
This was made worse by the December rule changes in what is usually a busy period for the aviation sector.
Heathrow Airport said many business passengers cancelled their flights in December, after Johnson introduced the 
stricter rules for international arrivals.
Airport Operators Association chief executive Karen Dee said: "Despite the removal of the temporary measures, 
airports continue to face a difficult period. There continue to be countries who have imposed restrictions on UK 
arrivals and consumer confidence has been knocked during the crucial Christmas booking period. The UK and 
devolved governments should set out how they will support aviation towards a sustainable recovery to ensure the 
UK has the connectivity and the airports necessary for our economic recovery."
Virgin Atlantic chief executive Shai Weiss said "travellers can now book with confidence and look forward to 
reconnecting with loved ones and business colleagues".
Hannah Essex, Co-Executive Director of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: "The easing of testing 
requirements for travel should provide a welcome boost to a sector that has been among the hardest hit throughout 
the pandemic.
"But urgent action is needed to address issues with the supply of lateral flow tests to make sure the workforce is not 
isolating unnecessarily. Too many businesses are telling us that their staff cannot get access."
Read more
Financial protection for holidays surges in importance amid pandemic, says aviation watchdog
Matthew Fell, chief policy director at the Confederation of British Industries, said the "testing and self-isolation 
measures have had a significant impact on demand for international travel" and that "the easing of these 
requirements is a very positive step towards the goal of a return to restriction-free travel".
The post Self-isolation, pre-departure tests scrapped for inbound arrivals to England  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Three things we learnt from Easyjet and Wizz Air’s results
Three things we learnt from Easyjet and Wizz Air’s results
Cityam.com
January 29, 2023 Sunday 12:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 676 words
Byline: Jack Barnett
Highlight: The European aviation industry took centre stage last week, with low-cost carriers Easyjet and Wizz Air 
posting their financial results for the final three months of last year. Both were encouraging, with each firm reporting 
revenue rises driven by Brits returning to the skies after pandemic travel restrictions. Easyjet’s income jumped to 
£1.5bn after traveller [...]The post Three things we learnt from Easyjet and Wizz Air’s results appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
The European aviation industry took centre stage last week, with low-cost carriers Easyjet and Wizz Air posting 
their financial results for the final three months of last year.
Both were encouraging, with each firm reporting revenue rises driven by Brits returning to the skies after pandemic 
travel restrictions.
Easyjet’s income jumped to £1.5bn after traveller numbers scaled to 17.5 million, while a near 60 per cent rise in 
passengers lifted Wizz Air’s revenues to €911.7m (£802.1m) revenue.
So why did Easyjet shares skyrocket but Wizz Air’s nosedived?
Read more
FTSE 100 close: Wizz Air nosedives while JD Sports and 3i shine in London
Wizz Air said it could be hit by the macroeconomic environment deteriorating, while Easyjet maintained an upbeat 
outlook, expecting a full-year return to profitability, sending its shares up more 10 per cent on the day it published its 
results. 
The pair’s results provide clues on how other airlines could fare, beginning with Ryanair tomorrow.
                                            Low-cost carriers are well-equipped to navigate the current macroeconomic 
environment                     The first thing that pops out is that low-cost carriers are well-equipped to weather the 
Three things we learnt from Easyjet and Wizz Air’s results
current market conditions. They offer cheaper options, demand for which tends to rise during a recession.Easyjet 
reported a 36 per cent increase in revenue per passenger seat to £68.47, as losses shrunk to £133m. Wizz Air, on 
the other hand, reported a €33.5m quarterly net profit, up from last year’s loss of €267.5m. According to Easyjet’s 
chief executive Johan Lundgren, the positive results were engineered by people continuing to spend on holidays 
despite the cost of living crisis.“We see a strong booking momentum, as customers prioritise spending on their 
holidays,” Lundgren told journalists on Wednesday. “And in this high cost of living environment, customers are 
looking for value.”Both Easyjet and Wizz Air have a strong pipeline of bookings.The former said Easter demand is 
currently 24 per cent higher than 2019 levels. The summer season is already at 60 per cent on the same measure. 
Wizz Air’s share price dropped nearly two per cent last weekWizz Air will increase its capacity by 35 per cent in 
response to “booking volumes coming in ahead of 2022, which is in line with expectations.”Low-cost airlines are 
increasing ticket prices but people don’t seem to mindAccording to Sophie Lund-Yates, lead equity analyst at 
Hargreaves Lansdown, airlines have hiked prices “without denting demand.”“Overall, European short and medium 
haul aviation is holding up significantly better than feared and it appears consumers aren’t as spending-shy as 
thought,” she said.Wizz Air said it continued to see evidence of a “solid fare environment as average fares are 
trading above 2019 and 2022 levels.”“We remain very upbeat,” chief executive Jozsef Varadi told investors on 
Thursday. “We see that demand is there,” he added.According to the chief executive, there was no sign of spending 
slowing down throughout the wider Wizz Air network as people are prepared to sacrifice “on other consumer 
items… other than travel.”Varadi’s comments echoed Lundgren’s, who a day earlier said that, despite an increase 
in prices, people continue to purchase his airline’s tickets.“People wouldn’t be buying tickets unless they thought it 
was great value for money,” he added.The future remains nevertheless uncertain 
Despite their positive outlook, low-cost carriers are not fully insulated from the global economic downturn.
“The market does remain jittery to forward-looking estimates though, with Wizz Air’s valuation facing a knock as 
investors questioned how long this elevated demand can be sustained,” Lund-Yates said.
“The distance left on the runway before sentiment reverses is yet to be seen and could cause upset,” she added.
Read more
Easyjet slims losses to £133m as it dreams of profitability with Easter and summer bookings already flying high
The post Three things we learnt from Easyjet and Wizz Air’s results  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 29, 2023
End of Document
BA pilots at Gatwick to be paid less than Easyjet 's
BA pilots at Gatwick to be paid less than Easyjet's
Cityam.com
September 6, 2021 Monday 4:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 351 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: British Airways pilots working for the carrier's newly-announced subsidiary at Gatwick will reportedly be 
paid less than pilots at low-costThe post BA pilots at Gatwick to be paid less than Easyjet's appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
British Airways pilots working for the carrier's newly-announced subsidiary at Gatwick will reportedly be paid less 
than pilots at low-cost rival Easyjet.
The Telegraph reported that junior captains will be paid between £97,000 and £114,000, while Easyjet captains 
earn from £108,000 to £148,000.
The new pay structure is part of plans by the carrier to cut costs at the Crawley airport, where it has consistently lost 
money in the past.
A spokesperson for the carrier said that pilots would have the choice as to whether to join the new short-haul 
subsidiary, which has been dubbed "BA Lite" by some.
"Existing BA pilots will have the choice of joining the new subsidiary, there is no requirement for them to leave the 
mainline business. We hope the pilot community choose to support this proposal, creating jobs and keeping the BA 
short-haul brand at Gatwick", they added.
"Time is now critical and if BA is to launch an operation for next summer, decisions in relation to slots, aircraft and 
other critical resources are ­imminent."
It was reported that BALPA, the pilots' union, had recommended that its members vote in favour of the plans at a 
ballot on the matter later this month.
If the changes are approved, BA is looking to operate as many as 17 aircraft out of Gatwick next summer, having 
pulled services from the airport due to the pandemic.
BA pilots at Gatwick to be paid less than Easyjet 's
But despite the cost-cutting plans, the IAG-owned carrier has insisted that passengers will "continue to benefit from 
the same full standard of service".
In a statement, it added: "British Airways is continuing to lose money at Gatwick and has done for over 30 years. 
We cannot afford to keep doing this. 
"This is about creating a sustainable platform from which to rebuild BA's London ­Gatwick operation. If this isn't 
achieved, BA will not serve the London Gatwick short-haul market."
News of the new subsidiary has met with disdain from some quarters. Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary 
branded the plans the "definition of insanity" at a press conference last week.
The post BA pilots at Gatwick to be paid less than Easyjet's  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: September 6, 2021
End of Document
Surging oil prices slow down aviation's recovery
Surging oil prices slow down aviation's recovery
Cityam.com
March 7, 2022 Monday 3:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 411 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The post-pandemic recovery of some airlines could be badly affected by the ongoing increase in oil 
prices. Prices today hit $130 per barrel, the highest level since 2008, amid fears of tightening supplies as both the 
US and Europe weigh in on a Russian oil ban after the Kremlin waged war in Ukraine.  According to [...]The post 
Surging oil prices slow down aviation's recovery appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The post-pandemic recovery of some airlines could be badly affected by the ongoing increase in oil prices.
Prices today hit $130 per barrel, the highest level since 2008, amid fears of tightening supplies as both the US and 
Europe weigh in on a Russian oil ban after the Kremlin waged war in Ukraine. 
According to aviation analyst Alex Macheras, the increase in fuel prices will have a direct effect on tickets. 
"Fuel accounts for between 35 and 40 per cent of an airline's operating costs, it is inevitable that the increased 
costs will eventually trickle down to passengers," he told City A.M. 
"For some airlines who hedged out about 80 per cent of their fuel needs, they'll still be able to pass on low fare to 
passengers for the upcoming summer season, but eventually this will push fares prices up and that's not what the 
industry wanted as it recovers from the worst of the pandemic."
Despite a 3.95 per cent slump in share price, Ryanair expects to maintain tariffs low.
"We will be nicely insulated from that for the next 12 months, as we are 80 per cent hedged out to March 2023 at 
about $63 a barrel and so we'll be able to pass those very considerable fuel savings to our customer in the form of 
lower airfare," said on Wednesday chief executive Michael O'Leary. 
According to O'Leary, the remaining 20 per cent that still needs to be bought will cost approximately 50m, slowing 
down recovery. 
Surging oil prices slow down aviation's recovery
"Although we do have a 20 per cent [to be bought] and that will cost us probably another 50m over the next 12 
months, which is not a huge amount but it certainly makes the post-Covid recovery much more difficult," he added.
Wizz Air has for the moment capped fuel exposure with zero hedges, but expect the fare environment "to harden 
more broadly across the industry," while Easyjet announced at the end of January it had hedged out 60 per cent of 
its fuel needs for the financial year to 30 September.
Long-haul carriers - including Virgin Atlantic - were not left unscathed.
"Our focus is on our customers and giving them the best service and experience at the most competitive price 
possible," a Virgin Atlantic spokesperson told City A.M. "Due to the rising cost of oil, we have recently increased our 
carrier surcharges by £30 and will continue to monitor the situation and keep surcharges under review."
Read more
Russia to be hit harder than West from impact of sanctions on trade
The post Surging oil prices slow down aviation's recovery  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 7, 2022
End of Document
BA and Virgin to restart flights to China after three years as Beijing welcomes back visitors
BA and Virgin to restart flights to China after three years as Beijing 
welcomes back visitors
Cityam.com
February 2, 2023 Thursday 1:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 367 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Virgin Atlantic and British Airways have announced they will return to China for the first time in three 
years following Beijing’s reopening.  Richard Branson’s airline – which stopped operating flights into China in 
December 2020 – announced today it will resume daily flights between Heathrow and Shanghai from 1 May. 
Meanwhile British Airways (BA) will [...]The post BA and Virgin to restart flights to China after three years as Beijing 
welcomes back visitors appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Virgin Atlantic and British Airways have announced they will return to China for the first time in three years following 
Beijing’s reopening. 
Richard Branson’s airline – which stopped operating flights into China in December 2020 – announced today it will 
resume daily flights between Heathrow  and Shanghai from 1 May.
Meanwhile British Airways (BA) will start flying to Shanghai from 23 April, with weekly services to Beijing following 
suit from 3 June. 
The companies have followed in the footsteps of rivals such as Air France, which is already operating weekly flights 
to mainland China and Hong Kong. The French carrier announced late last week it will ramp up its schedule with 
daily services to Hong Kong, Beijing and Shanghai from 1 July.
Both BA and Virgin said they reopened the route after the Chinese government decided in early December to scrap 
its zero-Covid policy and reopen its borders. 
“The return of our Shanghai services has been a long-time coming and I’m delighted it’s finally a reality,” said Virgin 
Atlantic’s chief commercial officer Juha Jarvinen. 
“Shanghai is the final route to return following the global pandemic, restoring our flying programme to full capacity.”
BA and Virgin to restart flights to China after three years as Beijing welcomes back visitors
Interactive Investor’s head of investment Victoria Scholar said China’s reopening could “provide a significant 
tailwind” for the two carriers. 
“BA and Virgin look set to pounce on this opportunity with the potential surge in demand for international travel 
again from the world’s second largest economy,” she toldCity A.M.
“The post-pandemic economic normalisation in China could provide a significant tailwind to companies like BA and 
Virgin, giving them access to a previously shut pool of potential flyers and a key international tourist destination.”
The announcement comes months after Virgin Atlantic shut its Hong Kong route  for good after 30 years. 
The carrier announced in October it would cease all operations due – among other factors – to the closure of 
Russia’s airspace.
Read more
Flying start to 2023: Shares up after 16m passengers take to skies on Ryanair and Wizz Air
The post BA and Virgin to restart flights to China after three years as Beijing welcomes back visitors  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 2, 2023
End of Document
Travel industry awaits details on easing of rules for double-vaxxed Brits
Travel industry awaits details on easing of rules for double-vaxxed Brits
Cityam.com
July 5, 2021 Monday 5:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Byline: Josh Martin
Highlight: Travel industry in holding pattern awaiting details on rule change for double-vaxxed BritsThe post Amber 
means Go! Travel industry awaits details on rule change for double-vaxxed Brits appeared first on CityAM.
Body
As Prime Minister Boris Johnson unveiled the list of regained freedoms  for those in England from 19 July, he held 
back from giving details on how double-vaccinated Brits may soon avoid quarantine when returning from amber list 
countries.
Announcements on whether double-jabbed people have to isolate when pinged by NHS app or quarantine when 
they enter the country are expected later this week.
Johnson today hinted of a return to mass leisure travel in time for the end of the summer season.
"We will maintain our tough border controls, but...recognising the protection afforded by two doses of the vaccine 
we will work with the travel industry towards removing the need for fully-vaccinated arrivals to isolate on return from 
an amber country".
Johnson said transport secretary Grant Shapps will update the industry with details later this week, but gave no 
further indication of when any changes may come into force.
Lastminute.com chief executive Andrea Bertoli welcomed the easing of restrictions but said the UK Government 
must go further, sooner to bring the travel industry back from the brink.
"Freedom Day should mean the equally hard-hit hospitality industry will get a boost, but the biggest boost for all 
destinations, and for London in particular, would come from inbound cash coming to the capital from the USA and 
Europe.
The travel boss said the industry "really needed" today's announcement to say that the fully vaccinated people are 
able to return or visit from amber list countries without quarantining at home, so he may just need to wait a few 
more days to get some meat on the bones of the policy.
Travel industry awaits details on easing of rules for double-vaxxed Brits
"It will be a last-minute summer as UK holidaymakers are just waiting to have a stable context to pack their bag and 
head south to a nice beach in the Mediterranean. 
"Until today, like all UK consumers and the whole travel industry, we've been at the mercy of sudden government 
decisions. We've called consistently for clarity across the whole of the pandemic - so rather than a traffic-light 
system that can be changed overnight, a more measured approach to opening up, letting people fully vaccinated to 
travel without restrictions, would be much better for businesses and consumer confidence.
European countries such as Spain, Greece and Malta currently allow arrivals from the UK to forgo any quarantine if 
they can show proof of full vaccination, with their final jab more than 14 days ago.
The travel industry has repeatedly criticised the UK Government for not making the most of its successful Covid-19 
vaccine rollout  and restricting the number of destinations Brits can travel to without cumbersome quarantine and 
testing rules when they arrive back into the UK.
Passenger numbers on airlines such as Ryanair are still down more than 90 per cent on pre-pandemic levels and 
airports remain eerily quiet in ehat should be one of the busiest times for travel.
Travel stocks surged 2.3 per cent ahead of the press conference, on the prospect of a reopening.
Johnson said this is not the moment to get "demob happy" as he warned that the battle against coronavirus is "very 
far" from over.
The Prime Minister told the Downing Street press conference: "I don't want people to feel this is, as it were, the 
moment to get demob happy, this is the end of Covid - it is very far from the end of dealing with this virus."
The post Amber means Go! Travel industry awaits details on rule change for double-vaxxed Brits  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 5, 2021
End of Document
British Airways gets green light for Gatwick operations
British Airways gets green light for Gatwick operations
Cityam.com
October 7, 2021 Thursday 3:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 451 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The British Airlines Pilots Association (Balpa), which represents more than 16,000 UK pilots, has signed 
off a new agreement withThe post Pilot pay deal paves way for BA short-haul hub at Gatwick appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
The British Airlines Pilots Association (Balpa), which represents more than 16,000 UK pilots, has signed off a new 
agreement with British Airways (BA), after union members agreed to back up the establishment of a British Airways' 
subsidiary operating from Gatwick airport.
"Balpa and British Airways have concluded an important new agreement covering revised pay and working hours 
for British Airways pilots operating short-haul operations at Gatwick," said the union's acting general secretary 
Martin Chalk. "This agreement is now BA's preferred option in relation to the future of short-haul operations at 
Gatwick."
BA will now need to consult other stakeholders before relaunching operations. "We will continue discussions with 
our colleagues, trade unions, suppliers and other stakeholders, following this positive result, and if we can agree a 
way forward with all parties, we would hope to begin operations next summer.," commented a BA spokesperson.
Balpa's ballot is the second to take place in the space of a month, after the union initially voted against British 
Airways' plan for competing with low-cost carriers such as Easyjet and Ryanair. Union members initially motivated 
their decisions in terms of not being able to reach an acceptable agreement with the carrier. 
"Balpa remains open to future negotiations with British Airways to address our members' concerns with the 
proposal for LGW short-haul or about any other part of the business," commented Chalk at the time.
After receiving the ballot's vote, the airline decided to scrap most of its Gatwick operations, which had not been 
running since March 2020 because of Covid-19. 
 "After many years of losing money on European flights from the airport, we were clear that coming out of the 
pandemic, we needed a plan to make Gatwick profitable and competitive," said a BA spokesperson.
British Airways gets green light for Gatwick operations
"With regret, we will now suspend our short-haul operations at Gatwick, with the exception of a small number of 
domestic services connecting to our long-haul operation, and will pursue alternative uses for the London Gatwick 
short-haul slots."
The union decided to go back to the negotiating table in late September, bringing to its members the amended 
proposal on 4 October. "While we have been actively pursuing alternative uses for our slots, last week BALPA 
asked us to resume discussions," said a BA spokesperson on 4 October. 
"These talks were constructive, addressed key concerns and have secured the efficiencies required. Balpa is now 
taking a new proposal to its members."
BA refused to comment on the details of the initial as well as the amended proposal. 
The post Pilot pay deal paves way for BA short-haul hub at Gatwick  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 7, 2021
End of Document
Travel industry protest: Airline workers' plea to 'save summer holidays'
Travel industry protest: Airline workers' plea to 'save summer holidays'
Cityam.com
June 23, 2021 Wednesday 5:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Byline: Josh Martin
Highlight: Travel industry protest: Airline and tourism workers' plea to 'save summer holidays'The post Travel 
industry protest: Airline and tourism workers' plea to 'save summer holidays' appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Travel industry workers will protest in Westminster today during a day of action to pressure the UK Government to 
change course and reopen international travel.
The UK aviation industry is the hardest hit in Europe by restrictions on international travel, which has effectively 
ruined summer holiday plans for thousands of Brits.
Protests will be held outside the House of Commons, as well as outisde Holyrood and Stormont.
Derek Jones, CEO of high end travel angecy Kuoni said:"The outbound travel sector has been decimated by this 
pandemic and by the Government's haphazard response to it. 
"Today, we have joined together to call upon Ministers to acknowledge that the restrictions they have placed on 
international travel are having a deep and devastating impact on travel businesses. We are united in one message 
today: we want to see the safe re-opening of international travel alongside targeted financial support for businesses 
which have not been able to trade for well over a year."
The UK's traffic light system for travel has proved so controversial that Ryanair, Stansted airport owner MAG, Tui 
and British Airways are taking the Government to court over it.
Travel industry lobby group ABTA estimates that as many as 195,000 jobs have been lost or are at risk within the 
travel industry.
BA recently put more staff back on furlough after changes to the traffic light designation of Portugal, which went 
from the green list to the amber list, meaning returnees to the UK would need to self-isolate for 10 days.
Tim Alderslade, CEO of Airlines UK, and aviation industry group, said it was "now or never" to reopen travel.
Travel industry protest: Airline workers' plea to 'save summer holidays'
"It is now or never for the Government to reopen travel and save what is remaining of the summer season, not just 
for families desperate to get away but the tens of thousands of jobs which rely upon this once thriving sector.
"Airlines are at the absolute limit of what they can borrow and without a genuine reopening this summer they will 
require Government support to survive."
Health secretary Matt Hancock said yesterday the UK Government was "looking into" allowing fully vaccinated Brits 
to avoid self-isolating when coming home from amber list countries, but not until August.
Brian Strutton, acting general secretary of pilots union Balpa said the Government should follow the science:
"With a robust and open approach to the data we should be able to use the science to open-up safe travel routes 
with the US and many European destinations, just as other European countries have done. This would give the 
travel industry and passengers a chance to make something the best of the summer and start to stem the decline. 
The Balpa boss added: "Extending the furlough scheme and direct support to airlines and airports would save jobs 
and companies as we head into the winter, so that we have a leisure and business travel industry ready to bounce 
back quickly post-pandemic." 
The protest comes on the same day that airline shares jumped in mornign trading on the hope if an expanded green 
list and reduced quarantine measures for arrivals from holiday favourites such as Spain, Greece and Italy.
The Mail also reported that the Balearic islands of Ibiza, Mallorca and Menorca could be moved to the UK's green 
list tomorrow, boosting the hopes of airlines and travekl companies of a summer holidays revival.
The post Travel industry protest: Airline and tourism workers' plea to 'save summer holidays'  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 23, 2021
End of Document
The bubble has burst for tech firms built on hype but solid businesses will keep growing
The bubble has burst for tech firms built on hype but solid businesses will 
keep growing
Cityam.com
August 16, 2022 Tuesday 5:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 626 words
Byline: Sascha O'Sullivan
Highlight: As tech companies struggle to keep up with puffed up valuations, the sturdy - albeit less glamorous - 
firms will see long term growth.The post The bubble has burst for tech firms built on hype but solid businesses will 
keep growing appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Big tech is facing a moment of reckoning. 
Sky high valuations that seemed limitless have normalised and the premium that public tech stocks once held over 
the rest of the market have been largely erased. We’ve seen a spooked market fuel talk of a tech stock unwinding, 
but the reality is that many of the companies most impacted were likely overvalued. The recent corrections will 
shake out the companies that have relied on hype and FOMO (also known as fear of missing out) rather than strong 
fundamentals and robust business models.
But we can and should still be excited about London’s technology companies. Even in the midst of falling tech 
valuations, there are still pockets of huge opportunity. 
Almost five billion people – 63 per cent of the world’s population – have access to the internet, with 192 million 
additional users joining them each year. On average, these internet users spend almost 7 hours each day online, 
consuming huge amounts of data. A pocket of opportunity lies in the next generation of technology businesses in 
the capital that are building the future of digital applications and tech infrastructure. It is the companies in these tech 
sub-sectors, not the ones you see in the headlines, which are the most resilient to market shocks in the short term 
and that have the potential for long-term growth and value creation. 
Read more
Klarna valuation plummets to $6.7bn in new funding round
Here’s an example you may not have heard of: “serverless” technology. Whether you’re watching the Euros on your 
iPhone or digging into your emails, the likelihood is that the data is being served to you through cloud infrastructure.
The bubble has burst for tech firms built on hype but solid businesses will keep growing
Serverless technology enables a company to outsource both infrastructure and its code execution to a cloud 
provider, such as Amazon, IBM, or Microsoft. It saves time and resources so developers can focus on new products 
and services. 
The serverless technology market is currently worth $7.29bn and is expected to reach $36.84bn by 2028. There is 
also an entire tech ecosystem being built around it, helping developers to resolve incidents and performance 
bottlenecks quickly.
Regardless of market conditions, you still need brave, innovative, and fast-moving companies to challenge the 
status quo and take advantage of new trends. London is home to many of these companies. Within our own 
portfolio, we’ve seen the likes of Ably – who are building real-time notification infrastructure for the internet – deliver 
billions of messages to more than fifty million people every day for companies including HubSpot, Verizon and 
Bloomberg. APEXX Global’s payment systems aggregator helps online merchants – including Asos and Ryanair – 
to process transactions faster and easier.
Read more
The tech recession isn’t a tragedy, it is a necessary correction for future growth
These companies hold potential for high payoffs. But naturally, resource and development costs for these nascent 
businesses can be high and there can be more risk. This is where early-stage venture capital in particular presents 
an opportunity to identify homegrown entrepreneurs developing new technologies or taking advantage of market 
shocks.
The cyclical nature of markets means that there will always be times of buoyancy and times when growth slows. But 
the one sure thing is the ever-increasing pace of technological change. By understanding and focusing on the 
trends that drive it, businesses can present solutions that underpin progress.
The most exciting technology is not always the loudest, in fact it rarely is. The London startups quietly and patiently 
building strong businesses are often the most transformative.
The post The bubble has burst for tech firms built on hype but solid businesses will keep growing  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 16, 2022
End of Document
UK still 'deeply concerned' over treatment of human rights in Belarus
UK still 'deeply concerned' over treatment of human rights in Belarus
Cityam.com
July 13, 2021 Tuesday 4:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 430 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: The UK has again voiced its concerns over Belarus' treatment of human rights today, following the 
hijacking of a RyanairThe post UK still 'deeply concerned' over treatment of human rights in Belarus appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
The UK has again voiced its concerns over Belarus' treatment of human rights today, following the hijacking of a 
Ryanair plane in May.
"The United Kingdom remains deeply concerned by the human rights situation in Belarus," the UK's ambassador to 
the United Nations and World Health Organisation in Geneva, Simon Manley, said.
"Tightening the laws on media and mass events has made it more difficult than ever for individuals to exercise their 
rights to peaceful assembly, freedoms of association and expression, and for journalists to carry out their work 
safely."
The comments followed a draft resolution titled 'Situation of human rights in Belarus', which the UK has co-
sponsored.
Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko has been sued for the hijacking , which saw the Lithuania-bound plane 
grounded in Minsk and Belarusian journalist Raman Pratasevich who detained.
The European Union agreed to impose sanctions against Belarus  in late June, which is set to include a ban on new 
loans, a ban on EU investors from trading securities or buying short-term bonds and a ban on EU banks from 
providing investment services.
"The forced diversion and landing of a civilian airliner in Minsk in order to arrest an independent journalist and his 
partner, and the recent crackdown of regional non-state media, has highlighted the lengths that the Belarusian 
authorities will go to in order to try and silence critical voices," the ambassador continued.
"The number of people detained on political grounds increases by the day."
UK still 'deeply concerned' over treatment of human rights in Belarus
                     Tensions                   
The leader has been in power since 1994 and faced weeks of mass protests last year after he was declared the 
winner of a presidential election that his opponents said was rigged.
Dozens of people were detained following the 9 August election, after thousands reportedly took to the streets.
The UN and WHO ambassador said that Belarusian authorities have 'refused' to investigate "thousands of 
allegations of torture and ill-treatment in detention."
Manley advised the mandate of the special rapporteur be extended for another year to ensure Belarus' treatment on 
human rights is recorded.
Lukashenko visited another controversial European figure earlier today, Russian president Vladimir Putin, as 
Belarus has increasingly relied on Moscow's support amid increasing tensions with the West.
The Belarusian president thanked Putin for "very serious support from Russia" and said that the country would 
repay its loans.
The post UK still 'deeply concerned' over treatment of human rights in Belarus  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 13, 2021
End of Document
London's FTSE 100 weighed down by financial and consumer stocks
London's FTSE 100 weighed down by financial and consumer stocks
Cityam.com
June 28, 2021 Monday 10:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 397 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: London's FTSE 100 dipped lower today, weighed down by losses in financial and consumer stocks, with 
banking stocks some ofThe post London's FTSE 100 weighed down by financial and consumer stocks appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
London's FTSE 100 dipped lower today, weighed down by losses in financial and consumer stocks, with banking 
stocks some of the biggest decliners of the month.
Banks, industrials and mining stocks were down between 0.1 per cent and 0.7 per cent after leading the gains last 
week as investors sectors that look to benefit as restrictions ease.
The blue-chip index fell 0.3 per cent, with consumer stock Burberry tumbling 7.07 per cent after its CEO Marco 
Gobbetti said he would step down from the role.
As some of the biggest decliners on the month, behind the turbulent travel index, life insurers and banks fell 0.8 per 
cent each and were among the biggest drags to the index.
Healthcare and energy sectors have performed well and remain on course for their fourth and second straight 
monthly gains respectively.
The domestically focused mid-cap FTSE 250 index declined 0.2 per cent.
                                            Turbulent travel stocks                                        
Travel stocks have plunged as Covid-19 cases in Asia have spiked and fears of strict European quarantine rules  
swell in the UK.
"Optimism on the horizon for the travel industry has once again been obscured by dark clouds, as, one by one, 
European countries bring back in tough quarantine rules," senior investment and markets analysts at Hargreaves 
Lansdown, Susannah Streeter, said.
London's FTSE 100 weighed down by financial and consumer stocks
"EU leaders are preparing to meet this week and Germany's Angela Merkel is hoping to gain approval for a 
consensus on quarantine to stop the spread of the delta variant. So, it's looking increasingly likely this summer will 
be a washout for the industry after all."
TUI tumbled four per cent in early trading, EasyJet slipped 2.5 per cent, IAG fell 2.2 per cent and Ryanair sank two 
per cent.
It comes as Portugal re-imposed isolation requirements  for unvaccinated travellers and 'ever-changing' rules spark 
a lack of confidence in travellers and investors alike.
"The ever-changing rules and restrictions mean that trying to plan an overseas holiday has become like a game of 
snakes and ladders," Streeter added.
"A relaxation of the rules by one country is swiftly followed by a tightening in another, leaving travellers at risk of 
being left isolated in a hotel overseas with only a TV remote control for company."
The post London's FTSE 100 weighed down by financial and consumer stocks  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 28, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet scraps mask policy from Sunday
EasyJet scraps mask policy from Sunday
Cityam.com
March 22, 2022 Tuesday 11:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 304 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Easyjet will remove the mandatory mask policy aboard its planes on Sunday, the company announced 
today. From next week, passengers will no longer be required to wear a face covering if the policy has been 
dropped at both ends of the route, becoming applicable on domestic flights as well as routes between the UK and 
[...]The post EasyJet scraps mask policy from Sunday appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Easyjet will remove the mandatory mask policy aboard its planes on Sunday, the company announced today. 
From next week, passengers will no longer be required to wear a face covering if the policy has been dropped at 
both ends of the route, becoming applicable on domestic flights as well as routes between the UK and Denmark, 
Gibraltar, Hungary and Iceland. 
"This means when flying to or from countries where mask requirements remain in place, we will follow the relevant 
legal requirements," said the company in a statement. 
" We urge European governments to have a coordinated approach on the removal of the requirement where 
possible, to make it easy and clear for customers."
Easyjet is the latest airline to change its travel policy following a more relaxed approach to travelling at a European 
level. 
Jet2 was the first one who dropped the requirement in early March and, since then, has been joined by the likes of 
British Airways (BA) and Virgin Atlantic. 
"Where we're clear the destination you're travelling to doesn't require a face mask on board, it will become 
optional," BA tweeted last week while Virgin Atlantic said customers "should have the personal choice whether to 
wear a mask onboard."
Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary said earlier this month the low-cost airline might remove the requirement at the end 
of the month, City A.M. reported. 
EasyJet scraps mask policy from Sunday
"I think we would certainly keep mandatory face masks at airports for crews and passengers on board our aircraft 
until the end of March, I think we'll review at the end of March," he said. "I would probably said they'll probably stay 
there to April, you know there a lot of families travelling during Easter holiday in April.
Read more
Government funnels £3m in Hammersmith Bridge restoration works
The post EasyJet scraps mask policy from Sunday  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 22, 2022
End of Document
Jet-setting Brits ready for summer but it’s oil prices that could really take off
Jet-setting Brits ready for summer but it’s oil prices that could really take off
Cityam.com
May 2, 2023 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 822 words
Byline: Guy Taylor
Highlight: Resurgent demand in the world’s most developed economies could prove to be a major tailwind for oil 
prices. The post Jet-setting Brits ready for summer but it’s oil prices that could really take off appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Airlines are finally emerging from the gloom of the global pandemic.
Having weathered record fuel prices and a sharp downturn in customers, the industry is looking forward to a surge 
in demand, with major airlines forecasting bumper profits for 2023.
Such resurgent demand in the world’s most developed economies across Europe and North America should lead to 
booming fuel consumption – which could prove to be a major tailwind for oil prices. 
After all, data shared withCity A.M.by analytics firm Cirium,clearly shows flights will surge this summer, with airlines 
rapidly closing in on pre-pandemic levels amid an uplift in departures.
The figures provide a breakdown of take-offs for the UK’s largest airlines in the third quarter, revealing that most are 
expecting to see a rise from 2019 levels.
Ryanair, Jet2 , Virgin Atlantic  and EasyJet  are all predicted to see increases in departures when compared with 
2019, with Jet2 expecting the highest rise to reach 119 per cent of its previous total. British Airways is forecast to hit 
88 per cent of pre-pandemic levels.
Overall, UK departures are expected to reach 90 per cent of 2019 with over 49m flight seats filled, representing a 
near full recovery, Cirium’s figures show.
According to Lufthansa’s Director of Sales, Heinrich Lange, the travel boom can be attributed in part to “special 
effects” such as “pent up demand,” after years of restrictions. Other recent developments like the re-opening of 
travel to China and Japan have also provided a welcome boost. 
Jet-setting Brits ready for summer but it’s oil prices that could really take off
“Obviously now over the past summer and for sure in summer 2023, we’re looking at an aviation market which is 
mostly free of restrictions, and we see this coming back into full fruition,” he said. “I think for us, it showed that 
people and customers still want to connect to each other and I think especially during summer.”
Lange toldCity A.M. that the Lufthansa Group has already added 20 per cent capacity for flights, with the company 
doing “a lot of preparation,” including investing in more staff for the coming months.
Deidre Fulton, an analyst at the intelligence company OAG, said that “there’s no doubt that demand is certainly 
strong.” Holidaymakers have remained unperturbed by the cost of living crisis, she explained, with many “still 
prioritising travel.”
Data provided by OAG breaks down summer season capacity figures for Western European countries over the last 
decade. Capacity refers to the number of seats an airline plans to offer over a set period and is a good indicator of 
demand.
The UK has seen the sharpest recovery from pre-pandemic levels, just pipping Spain to take top spot at 
109,789,521 seats this summer.
Read more
OPEC chief warns IEA not to undermine oil investment as war of words escalates
                     Oil markets reflect robust travel demand                    
This resurgent enthusiasm for air travel has helped prop up oil prices into spring, with both major benchmarks 
trading at around $75 per barrel  – a robust valuation amid global recession fears and the contagion effect of 
February’s banking crisis. 
The question is whether it can help drive oil prices this summer, with growing expectations of Federal Reserve 
hikes eating into gains made after OPEC+’s heavy cuts to oil output last month.  
Callum Macpherson, head of commodities at Investec, toldCity A.M. that resurgent demand in jet fuel across the UK 
and Europe was a strong demand factor, but that it was already priced in – meaning it was unlikely to drive oil 
benchmarks this spring.
Instead, a revival in air travel from China, the world’s largest oil consumer, in the second half of the year was more 
likely to boost prices.
He said: “The key question mark is over Asian demand. There is a widely held view in the market that Asian oil 
demand will increase in the second half of the year and jet fuel will be an important component of that”
Craig Erlam, senior markets analyst at OANDA, also believed holiday bookings were not solely capable of driving 
up prices.
However, he argued the boost in tourism could suggest the UK’s wider economy was stronger than anticipated – 
which could be a key tailwind for oil if it leads to rising consumption across developed economies.
He said: “On its own, I don’t think holiday bookings are going to be a strong factor in the price of oil moves over the 
next month or two but should they prove to be indicative of overall household financial health, it could be a 
supportive and bullish factor, as it reflects the wider economy.”
The return of Western tourism might not be enough to cause oil prices to rise further this summer – but it could 
reflect a more optimistic vision for an economy teetering on the brink of a recession which could have benefits 
beyond oil markets. 
Read more
Jet-setting Brits ready for summer but it’s oil prices that could really take off
EasyJet profits expected to fly past £260m as demand and ticket prices soar
The post Jet-setting Brits ready for summer but it’s oil prices that could really take off  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: May 2, 2023
End of Document
UK airlines ask PM to remove travel restrictions as Omicron pushes shares down
UK airlines ask PM to remove travel restrictions as Omicron pushes shares 
down
Cityam.com
December 13, 2021 Monday 7:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 491 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Bosses of major UK airlines have sent Prime Minister Boris Johnson a letter asking the government to 
remove travel restrictions , as stocks today continued to plummet. Easyjet, as well as British Airways' (BA) owner 
IAG and Ryanair, saw their stocks go down 4.72, 5.29 and 3.46 per cent respectively because of fears of further 
[...]The post UK airlines ask PM to remove travel restrictions as Omicron pushes shares down appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Bosses of major UK airlines have sent Prime Minister Boris Johnson a letter asking the government to remove 
travel restrictions , as stocks today continued to plummet. 
Easyjet, as well as British Airways' (BA) owner IAG and Ryanair, saw their stocks go down 4.72, 5.29 and 3.46 per 
cent respectively because of fears of further travel restrictions.
The letter - signed among others by the bosses of Ryanair, Easyjet and BA - told the PM that "travel has been 
singled out with the introduction of disproportionate restrictions."
"Pre-departure and upon-arrival testing clearly add very little value to our Covid protection, but unnecessarily 
disrupt Christmas for families as well as businesses while severely damaging the UK travel industry," the letter said. 
Read more
Virgin Atlantic boosted by £400m in funding from Branson's Virgin Group and Delta Air Lines
Aviation stakeholders asked the government to remove the unnecessary measures at the next formal review next 
Monday, as well as to provide a package of economic support measures to help the industry continue to face the 
challenging period.
UK airlines ask PM to remove travel restrictions as Omicron pushes shares down
"We and our customers feel sincerely let down, having believed a more pragmatic, evidence-led approach to travel, 
in line with the rest of the world, had been achieved and agreed by all concerned just a few months ago," the letter 
continued.
"We urgently request you meet with us, to understand the problems that we and our customers are now facing 
because of these measures, which the transport secretary himself admitted risked 'killing off' the travel industry. We 
urge you to act now to prevent this from happening."
Today's followed reports yesterday that chief executives from BA, Virgin Atlantic and Easyjet intended to ask the 
Treasury to extend their Covid-19 loans, providing further economic help past next year's deadline, City A.M. 
reported yesterday.
According to Susannah Streeter, Hargreaves Lansdown's senior investment and market analyst, investors will need 
to "buckle up for another burst of severe turbulence affecting the sector."
"Worries about plunging confidence amongst the travelling public and concerns about future travel restrictions being 
imposed due to the spread of the Omicron variant have led to fresh volatility for airline stocks and companies reliant 
on the industry," she said today. 
"Shares in IAG and Ryanair fell sharply on Monday with losses accelerating towards the end of the working day 
after it's feared new testing requirements will cause severe repercussions in terms of booking rates over the coming 
months.
"News that Air France and KLM may seek a fresh capital raise is also weighing on the sector which has pushed 
Rolls Royce and Melrose lower, given how reliant both companies are on the health of commercial aviation."
Read more
UK airlines set to ask Treasury for extension to Covid loans
The post UK airlines ask PM to remove travel restrictions as Omicron pushes shares down  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 13, 2021
End of Document
Travel bosses fume as Portugal axed from UK's travel green list
Travel bosses fume as Portugal axed from UK's travel green list
Cityam.com
June 3, 2021 Thursday 1:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1154 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: Travel bosses fume as Portugal axed and no new countries added to UK's travel 'green list'The post 
Travel bosses fume as Portugal axed and no new countries added to UK's travel 'green list' appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Portugal has been axed and no new countries have been added to the UK's travel "green list" in today's update in a 
blow to Brits' hopes for getting away for some summer sun.
Portugal will be moved from the "green" list to the "amber" list, meaning a rush for some Brits there to return home 
before the new rules mean they'll have to self-isolate for 10 days..
Transport Secretary Grant Shapps confirmed there'll be no additions to the quarantine-free travel list, despite hopes 
that destinations such as Malta or Spain's Canary Islands could be included.
All changes to the traffic light system will come into effect from 4am Tuesday 8 June.
It was enough to send airline and travel company shares sliding on the FTSE this afternoon.
British Airways owner IAG, Easyjet, Ryanair and TUI are all down between 3.7 and 6.1 per cent on the news.
Additionally, seven more countries could be added from the amber list to the red list, which will require returnees to 
the UK to quarantine at an airport hotel for 10 days at a cost of £1,700.
The full list of additional countries added to the red list includes Afghanistan, Bahrain, Costa Rica, Egypt, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, and Trinidad and Tobago.
                     Travel bosses: A 'bitterly disappointing move'                   
The decision to remove Portugal from the "green list" will leave the thousands of Brits who had booked a trip to the 
Iberian country with a serious dilemma.
Travel bosses fume as Portugal axed from UK's travel green list
Travel bosses were quick to condemn the move, which could see their already-battered businesses hit by another 
blast of turbulence.
After one summer season lost to the coronavirus crisis, a second fallow period could be devastating for airlines and 
travel firms.
According to Cirium, there were more than 1,800 flights - with 345,000 seats - due to depart from the UK to Portugal 
this month.
Ryanair and Easyjet added thousands of extra seats in order to account for demand when Portugal was put on the 
green list last month.
Gatwick Airport boss Stewart Wingate called the move "bittery disappointing".
Johan Lundgren, easyJet CEO said:
"This shock decision to add Portugal to the Amber list is a huge blow to those who are currently in Portugal and 
those who have booked to be reunited with loved ones, or take a well-deserved break this summer. With 
Portuguese rates similar to those in the UK it simply isn't justified by the science. 
"And to add no more countries to the Green list when most of Europe's infection rates are on a downward trend and 
many places with low infection rates below that of the UK, such as the Balearics with a current rate of 33 in 100,000 
and Malta, with just 12 in 100,000, this makes no sense.
"When this framework was put together, consumers were promised a waiting list to allow them to plan. Yet the 
government has torn up its own rule book and ignored the science, throwing peoples' plans into chaos, with virtually 
no notice or alternative options for travel from the UK.
Pilots union BALPA's acting general secretary Brian Strutton said: "This decision is a total disaster for the already 
fragile travel industry and is likely to lead to further airline failures and many more job losses.
"We understand that safety comes first, but with vaccination programmes going well in many countries, it seems the 
Government is ignoring the evidence and is allowing safe countries to languish in the amber and red categories for 
no valid reason.
"Any shred of public confidence is in tatters and the traffic light system seems stuck on red.
"Our airlines need this summer season if they are to survive. The Government must look at the evidence and stop 
the illogical, over cautious approach, that is killing a once thriving industry."
Virgin Atlantic boss Shai Weiss said that the traffic light system was not following the data, and risked wasting the 
benefits of the UK's vaccination programme.
"Its own evidence shows the US and Caribbean are low risk and should be added to the 'green list' now", he said. 
"We are yet to see clear and transparent guidance on the methodology and data the Government is basing these 
decisions on. It shouldn't be a state secret.
"This overly cautious approach is failing to reap dividends from the UK's successful vaccination programme, 
preventing passengers from booking with confidence and restricting £23m in economic value each day with our 
largest trading partner. 
"We urge UK Government to expedite talks with the Biden administration to lead the way in opening the skies 
ahead of G7 next week.
Virginia Messina, World Travel and Tourism Council senior vice president, said: "The government has once again 
cold-shouldered Travel & Tourism by refusing to add any new destinations to the already slim green list.
Travel bosses fume as Portugal axed from UK's travel green list
 "There are so many countries with similar vaccination levels and low infection rates as the UK to which travel 
should be restored immediately, such as the US and Malta . 
Adam Tyndall, programme director for connectivity at London First, said: "It is deeply disheartening that restrictions 
on international travel seem to be increasing, at the point when vaccination programmes in the UK, Europe and 
elsewhere are ramping up. 
"Our economic recovery, and the future of hundreds of thousands of jobs, depends on our ability to travel safely.
"To give confidence in the system, the Government should publish the data and the thresholds behind the decisions 
made, so those wanting to travel have as much information as possible."
Paul Charles, chief executive of the travel consultancy The PC Agency said: "This decision will further threaten tens 
of thousands of jobs in aviation and travel, not to mention further damage consumer confidence.
"The data shows several countries should be green so the government's decision defies logic. Summer is being 
squeezed by a policy of fear."
                     What are the rules?                   
                                            Green: Travellers returning from green countries have to take a negative Covid-19 test 
within 72 hours of departure, and then take a PCR test on or before the second day of their return to the UK (even if 
fully vaccinated). They will not have to quarantine.                       Amber: Holidaymakers returning from "amber" 
destinations have to isolate at home for 10 days. Amber travellers also have to take a test before departure and 
book and pay for two PCR tests on day two and day eight of their home quarantine. If they want to release 
quarantine early, they can pay for a PCR test on day five (but will still have to take the test on the eighth day, as 
well).                       Red: Brits coming back from "red" countries have to quarantine for 10 days in hotels chosen by 
the government. The stay costs £1,750 per person, with pre-departure tests and tests on days two and eight.                              
The post Travel bosses fume as Portugal axed and no new countries added to UK's travel 'green list'  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 3, 2021
End of Document
BA to go ahead with Gatwick plans following union backing
BA to go ahead with Gatwick plans following union backing
Cityam.com
November 9, 2021 Tuesday 11:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 251 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways (BA) is expected to go ahead with its plans to set up a subsidiary for short-haul flights 
fromThe post BA to go ahead with Gatwick plans following union backing appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways (BA) is expected to go ahead with its plans to set up a subsidiary for short-haul flights from Gatwick, 
after securing the backing from trade unions. 
Speaking on Bloomberg Television, Luis Gallego, chief executive of BA's owner IAG, said agreements were 
reached with pilots and flight attendants, leaving the carrier to achieve the backing of ground staff - a secure 
enough position to go ahead with plans. 
"If we can close all of that we will start flying from Gatwick in March 2022," he told the outlet. 
The news comes a week after BA's chief executive Sean Doyle told colleagues that plans were progressing after 
receiving support from the union Unite. 
"Whilst we still have some further negotiations to sort, it looks likely that we will be up and running to fly the summer 
schedule."
BA's plans for Gatwick recently made the headlines, after the company received the green light from the British 
Airline Pilots Association (Balpa).
"Balpa and British Airways have concluded an important new agreement covering revised pay and working hours 
for British Airways pilots operating short-haul operations at Gatwick," said the union's acting general secretary 
Martin Chalk on 7 October. 
Balpa had initially tanked BA's plans to compete with low-cost carriers such as Easyjet and Ryanair, but went back 
to the negotiating table after the company decided to suspend all short-haul operations from Gatwick.
The post BA to go ahead with Gatwick plans following union backing  appeared first on CityAM. 
BA to go ahead with Gatwick plans following union backing
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
What are ghost flights and what is the debacle around them?
What are ghost flights and what is the debacle around them?
Cityam.com
January 27, 2022 Thursday 4:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 761 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: EasyJet's chief executive Johan Lundgren this morning told investors the airline was in favour of airport 
slot rules going back to "a normalised delineation," saying the carrier will not be forced to operate ghost flights to 
retain its slots. "We should remember that the reason why [governments] made these exceptions was because 
restrictions were in [...]The post What are ghost flights and what is the debacle around them? appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
EasyJet's chief executive Johan Lundgren this morning told investors the airline was in favour of airport slot rules 
going back to "a normalised delineation," saying the carrier will not be forced to operate ghost flights to retain its 
slots. 
"We should remember that the reason why [governments] made these exceptions was because restrictions were in 
place and airlines could not operate the capacity that was required," he added. "If they remove restrictions, there's 
really no reason why they shouldn't move back to the normal set of rules around it."
"It's mostly legacy airlines who arguing for this across Europe. You have to ask them why they think they need to 
have them in place when restrictions are removed."
Lundgren's comments mark the latest in the ghost flights/airport slots debacle, which has put low-cost carriers 
against legacy airlines and aviation against environmentalists for quite some time. 
 The debacle originated in December when Carsten Spohr, chief executive of aviation giant Lufthansa, told German 
newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung the airline was forced to operate thousands of half-empty - also 
called ghost - flights just to retain its airport slots under EU rules. 
"Because of the reduced demand in January, we even would have canceled considerably more flights. But in winter 
we will have to carry out 18,000 extra, unnecessary flights, just to secure our take-off and landing rights," he said.
Introduced to foster a healthy market competition, airport slot rules in the EU required airlines to use their airport 
slots 80 per cent of the time to retain them the next year. 
What are ghost flights and what is the debacle around them?
When the pandemic hit, the European Commission decided to scrap the rule altogether to help the sector, but as 
the industry slowly started to get back on its feet, usage levels were gradually increased to 50 per cent.
"For this winter season, we reduced slot requirements from 80 to 50 per cent, meaning that currently air companies 
will only have to use 50 per cent of a given slot series to preserve their rights," a European Commission 
spokesperson told City A.M. on 12 January. 
In December, the commission decided to extend the relief, increasing the percentage from 50 per cent to 64 per 
cent from March until October. 
A few weeks after Spohr's comments, Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary accused the German airline of mentioning 
ghosts flights just to protect its slots. 
"The solution to Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' problem is a simple one - just sell these seats to consumers," said 
O'Leary while urging the commission to ignore the airline's claims. "Lufthansa loves crying crocodile tears about the 
environment when doing everything possible to protect its slots.
"If Lufthansa doesn't want to operate "ghost flights" to protect its slots, then simply sell these seats at low fares, and 
help accelerate the recovery of short and long haul air travel to and from Europe."
O'Leary's comments were reiterated a day later by Wizz Air's chief executive Jozsef Varadi, who told said legacy 
airlines should not retain their slots if unable to use them.
"Why are they protected for the benefit of legacy carriers," he told Reuters. "This is a way of distorting the market 
further by allowing access to certain airlines at the detriment to others who could actually do more there, more 
efficiently."
Ghosts flights have also attracted criticisms from environmentalists, as they are believed to have become a main 
source of pollution. 
According to a recent Greenpeace analysis, EU ghost flights could generate up to 2.1 million tonnes of CO2 this 
winter.
"Transport emissions are skyrocketing," Herwig Schuster, a spokesperson for Greenpeace's European Mobility for 
All campaign, told the Guardian.
"It would be irresponsible of the EU not to take the low-hanging fruit of ending ghost flights and banning short-haul 
flights where there's a reasonable train connection."
In the UK, a petition calling on the UK Government to end ghost flights by changing landing slot rights has been 
signed by more than 6,700 people. 
"Airlines have been flying planes empty to retain their landing slots. These 'ghost' flights are a shocking waste of 
resources and a needless source of emissions," read the petition. "At a time of climate emergency we need to 
drastically reduce our fossil fuel use, and in the context of our steadily dwindling carbon budget, it beggars belief 
that planes fly empty."
Read more
EasyJet remains optimistic about 2022, as UK spearheads booking growth
The post What are ghost flights and what is the debacle around them?  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 27, 2022
What are ghost flights and what is the debacle around them?
End of Document
Ukraine : UK to freeze assets of major Russian banks in new sanctions
Ukraine: UK to freeze assets of major Russian banks in new sanctions
Cityam.com
February 24, 2022 Thursday 5:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 536 words
Byline: Stefan Boscia
Highlight: All major Russian banks will be shut out from operating in the UK and large Russian firms will be 
blocked from raising capital in the City in a package of economic sanctions announced by Boris Johnson today, 
which has been described as the largest ever by a British government. This will include VTB Bank, the [...]The post 
Ukraine: UK to freeze assets of major Russian banks in new sanctions appeared first on CityAM.
Body
All major Russian banks will be shut out from operating in the UK and large Russian firms will be blocked from 
raising capital in the City in a package of economic sanctions announced by Boris Johnson today, which has been 
described as the largest ever by a British government. 
This will include VTB Bank, the country's second-largest bank, having its British assets frozen immediately.
Read more
Johnson: Putin's 'barbaric venture' in Ukraine must 'end in failure'
Johnson's package of measures, in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine this morning, also includes plans to 
ban Russia from issuing state bonds in the UK, banning Aeroflot from landing in British airports and the sanctioning 
of 100 "individuals, entities and their subsidiaries".
This will include freezing the assets of major defence firm Rostec, and banning the company from operating in the 
UK, along with five oligarchs closely linked to Vladimir Putin.
The Prime Minister said the government would also bring forward the planned Economic Crime Bill to parliament 
next week, which will see the UK try to stamp out dirty money being laundered by organised crime gangs and 
corrupt governments in the City of London.
Russian nationals will also soon have a limit to how much they can hold in British bank accounts, however the limit 
is yet to be set.
Ukraine : UK to freeze assets of major Russian banks in new sanctions
Johnson described Russian President Vladimir Putin as a "bloodstained aggressor who believes in imperial 
conquest" who "is trying to redraw the map of Europe in blood".
"We have a clear mission - diplomatically, politically, economically and eventually militarily - this hideous and 
barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure," Johnson said.
"At the G7 meeting this afternoon, we agreed to work in unity to maximise the economic price that Putin will pay for 
his aggression. For our part, today the UK is announcing the largest and most severe package of economic 
sanctions that Russia has ever seen."
British firms will also be banned from sending "high-tech exports" to Russia as a part of the package, which will see 
Russian businesses blocked from buying UK-made products like semi-conductors and aviation equipment.
Johnson also outlined the UK's ambition to bar Russia from the Swift international payment and messaging system, 
however it is understood this is being held up by the EU who do not want to take this step.
Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said the UK must provide "weapons, equipment, and financial assistance, as well as 
humanitarian support for the Ukrainian people".
"The hardest possible sanctions must be taken against the Putin regime. It must be isolated, its finances frozen, it's 
ability to function crippled," he said.
"That means excluding Russia from financial mechanisms like SWIFT and banning trade in Russian sovereign 
debt."
Read more
Ryanair and Wizz Air shares dip as airlines halt all Ukraine operations
He added: "For too long our country has been a safe-haven, for the money that Putin and his fellow bandits stole 
from the Russian people. It must change now. Cracking open the shell-companies in which the stolen money is 
hidden will require legislation."
The post Ukraine: UK to freeze assets of major Russian banks in new sanctions  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2022
End of Document
A Black Friday on global markets as new Covid-19 variant engulfs investors
A Black Friday on global markets as new Covid-19 variant engulfs investors
Cityam.com
November 26, 2021 Friday 9:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 559 words
Byline: Jack Barnett
Highlight: Global markets tumbled today driven by investors being spooked by a fresh Covid-19 strain emerging in 
Southern Africa that has been described by scientist as the worst yet. In London, the FTSE 100 registered one of its 
day's in months, shedding 3.31 per cent to plunge to 7,068.68 points heading into the final hour of [...]The post A 
Black Friday on global markets as new Covid-19 variant engulfs investors appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Global markets tumbled today driven by investors being spooked by a fresh Covid-19 strain emerging in Southern 
Africa that has been described by scientist as the worst yet.
In London, the FTSE 100 registered one of its day's in months, shedding 3.31 per cent to plunge to 7,068.68 points 
heading into the final hour of trading.
The mid-cap FTSE 250 was whacked 2.53 per cent, dropping to 22,690.25 points.
Read more
Aggressive African Covid mutation lands in Europe as Belgium confirms first case of new Coronavirus variant
In overnight trading in Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed 2.53 per cent lower, its steepest fall in five months, while Hong 
Kong's Hang Seng index plummeted 2.67 per cent.
                     Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: "Fear has 
gripped the financial markets with the travel industry flying into another violent storm, after the discovery of a new 
Covid-19 strain which could be far more contagious and may render vaccines less effective."
News emerged yesterday of a new variant of Covid-19 letting rip across countries in Southern Africa, sound alarm 
that it could derail the global fight against the virus.
Scientists have warned the strain has mutated to such an extent that it is radically different from the one that 
emerged in Wuhan, China.
A Black Friday on global markets as new Covid-19 variant engulfs investors
The heavily mutated strain triggered concerns that it may be able to evade vaccines, or significantly reduce the 
efficacy of jabs, which, if borne out, would knock the global effort to quash Covid-19.
Some of its mutation are known to increase the virus's ability to spread.
The UK government ordered last night travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho and 
Eswatini, countries where the new variant has taken off, to self-isolate for 10 days on arrival to the country, with 
those arriving after 4am on Sunday required to quarantine in a hotel.
Analysts warned the UK could be hit hard by the new variant.
"London is naturally highly exposed to new strains given its high volume of travellers, and markets will be on the 
lookout in the coming days for any evidence the new variant has already reached UK, with obvious downside risks 
for the pound," warned experts at bank ING.
Travel stocks were the big losers in the City today due to investors pouring out of the sector on fears blanket travel 
bans could be reimposed to curb the spread of the new strain.
British Airways parent company IAG plunged nearly over 13 per cent, while easyJet had over 11 per cent shaved 
off its share price. Tui also fell 9.47 per cent, and Wizz Air dropped 12.66 per cent.
Read more
Hyper-aggressive Covid mutation from Southern Africa spreads like wildfire across globe: 'Worst Coronavirus 
variant so far'
Ryanair and Rolls Royce at one point today both fell more than 10.5 per cent.
Oil prices plummeted due to concerns airlines, who represent a large source of demand for the commodity, will be 
forced to shutter services.
International benchmarks WTI and Brent Crude dropped 9.1 per cent and 8.09 per cent respectively. Bitcoin 
retreated 20 per cent at one point today.
US markets opened sharply lower.
The Dow Jones fell 2.32 per cent, while the S&P 500 and tech-heavy Nasdaq dipped 1.75 per cent and 1.57 per 
cent respectively.
The post A Black Friday on global markets as new Covid-19 variant engulfs investors  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Aviation chiefs call for 'new normal' now with testing ditched for fully-jabbed fliers
Aviation chiefs call for 'new normal' now with testing ditched for fully-jabbed 
fliers
Cityam.com
January 24, 2022 Monday 8:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 410 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: AIRLINE bosses have called on the government to rule out the introduction of border closures even if a 
new Covid-19 variant emerges. The government last week brought an end to so-called Plan B restrictions, which 
saw self-isolation rules and work from home guidance scrapped. With the UK believed to be past the peak of the 
[...]The post Aviation chiefs call for 'new normal' now with testing ditched for fully-jabbed fliers appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
AIRLINE bosses have called on the government to rule out the introduction of border closures even if a new Covid-
19 variant emerges.
The government last week brought an end to so-called Plan B restrictions, which saw self-isolation rules and work 
from home guidance scrapped.
With the UK believed to be past the peak of the Omicron wave of Covid-19, and other restrictions falling away, chief 
executives at Ryanair, Easyjet, British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Jet2 have written to the government calling for 
an end to travel curbs, too.
"Visit Britain estimates nearly £50bn in tourism spend from overseas has been lost since the pandemic began - all 
resulting in less tax revenue to fund public services including the NHS," the airline bosses wrote.
They added that travel restrictions have a "limited effect" in preventing the spread of Covid-19 and that aviation 
recovery "is vital; not just to the more than half a million people working in it, but to everyone who lives and works in 
the UK".
Flight bookings had been increasing but new restrictions introduced in early December grounded the industry's 
post-pandemic rebound.It follows warnings from London mayor Sadiq Khan, who last week cautioned that tourism 
in the capital may not return to pre-pandemic levels for another three years. Business trips, overnight stays and 
their associated spending brought £18.8bn to the capital in 2019.
Aviation chiefs call for 'new normal' now with testing ditched for fully-jabbed fliers
"It is obvious that many of London's hospitality, retail, cultural and leisure businesses that rely heavily on tourists will 
be fighting for their survival for months to come, meaning many thousands of jobs are still at risk," Khan said.
London's recovery will fuel national recovery, explained UK Hospitality boss Kate Nicholls, "so it's vital to get 
domestic and tourist footfall up".The Government is set to review travel requirements next week.
Currently, vaccinated travellers flying out of England must pre-book a Covid-19 test, to be taken on the second day 
of their arrival. Travel bosses are helpful that the tests, which can add hundreds to the price of a family holiday, will 
be ditched.
A Government spokesperson said: "We continue to keep our travel measures under review and no decisions have 
been made.
                     Read more:                      Hong Kong's 'draconian' travel restrictions push out corporate expats, says 
report
The post Aviation chiefs call for 'new normal' now with testing ditched for fully-jabbed fliers  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
Tory row erupts over government plans to start amber watchlist for travel
Tory row erupts over government plans to start amber watchlist for travel
Cityam.com
August 2, 2021 Monday 11:29 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 406 words
Byline: Stefan Boscia
Highlight: A government plan to bring in a watchlist for countries at threat of being put on the red travel listThe post 
Tory row erupts over government plans to start amber watchlist for travel appeared first on CityAM.
Body
A government plan to bring in a watchlist for countries at threat of being put on the red travel list has been heavily 
criticised a growing group of Tory MPs.
The government is expected to make the announcement later this week in a move that some say will cripple the 
aviation and travel industry.
The government is considering putting countries like Spain, Italy and Greece on the amber watchlist - three of the 
most popular European destinations for British tourists.
Countries on the watchlist will be said to be at risk of going onto the red list.
Anyone coming to the UK from a red list country is forced to pay £1,750 for a 10-day hotel quarantine. 
Conservative MP, and transport committee chair, said the amber watchlist would be a "big red flag" for would-be 
tourists and would lead to holiday bookings for these countries to "collapse".
He told the BBC: "In my view, we don't need any more uncertainty, complexity, or anxiety for passengers, or this 
beleaguered sector. It just needs clarity. I would urge the government not to do anything with it."
It has also been speculated that Tory MPs are worried about their constituents' holiday plans being cancelled.
Tory MP Henry Smith told the Telegraph that the "original traffic light system was easy to understand".
"There is a clear set of criteria. If you add levels of complexity, you increase confusion and therefore discourage 
travel," he said. 
"It isn't helpful in terms of passenger confidence."
Tory row erupts over government plans to start amber watchlist for travel
It comes after the Sunday Times reported yesterday that Rishi Sunak had written to Boris Johnson to tell him that 
the current travel rules are "out of step" with the rest of Europe and will damage the economy.
Aviation bosses have called for clarity on travel rules for months, with a recent letter from the bosses of Ryanair, 
British Airways and Virgin Atlantic calling for the reduction of "still onerous and increasingly disproportionate burden 
of testing on travellers".
Labour party chair Anneliese Dodds said the government was in a "chaotic" state over the row and needed to 
provide data on Covid in other countries.
"It looks like yet again the government is in disarray even over that, some are for it and some are against it," she 
said.
"Why can't we provide holidaymakers with the data?
"I don't understand why the Conservative government are so reluctant to do that."
The post Tory row erupts over government plans to start amber watchlist for travel  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 2, 2021
End of Document
ITA Airways in search for partner 'to put money on the table'
ITA Airways in search for partner 'to put money on the table'
Cityam.com
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 6:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 270 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Italian carrier ITA Airways is searching for a partner to 'put money on the table' and invest in the newly 
born airline. Speaking at a parliamentary hearing, ITA Airways' chairman Alfredo Altavilla said Alitalia's successor is 
already in talks with European and overseas potential partners and it is expected to seal the deal by June, [...]The 
post ITA Airways in search for partner 'to put money on the table' appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Italian carrier ITA Airways is searching for a partner to 'put money on the table' and invest in the newly born airline.
Speaking at a parliamentary hearing, ITA Airways' chairman Alfredo Altavilla said Alitalia's successor is already in 
talks with European and overseas potential partners and it is expected to seal the deal by June, Reuters reported.
"We don't need code sharing or a commercial joint venture. If you put money on the table, you play; if you don't put 
money on the table, you can avoid asking for access to the data room," he said. "We are looking for an equity 
partnership."
Sources told the news agency the Italian airline has hold talks with Lufthansa as well as British Airways (BA) and 
Delta. While a spokesperson for the former confirmed the news, BA and Delta declined to comment.
According to the chairman, ITA Airways is not looking to become the junior partner of a major airline, stressing the 
company's need for growth - especially at its flagship airports of Milan and Rome.
"We are flexible, have cut costs and we have a fleet and network that can be integrated into that of a bigger 
partner," Altavilla said.
Born from the ashes of Alitalia, ITA Airways started operating on 15 October initially flying 59 routes with 52 planes, 
with margins for future growth.
The transition from Alitalia to ITA was widely opposed by the Alitalia workforce, as only 2,016 of Alitalia's 
employees were hired to be part of the new company, City A.M. reported.
ITA Airways in search for partner 'to put money on the table'
Read more
Ryanair calls on EU to ignore ghost flights claims
The post ITA Airways in search for partner 'to put money on the table'  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
'Green' status should be default for most of world, say BA and Easyjet CEOs
'Green' status should be default for most of world, say BA and Easyjet CEOs
Cityam.com
August 2, 2021 Monday 3:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 585 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: The UK's airline industry has called for more countries to be added to the "green list" for travel this 
week,The post 'Green' status should be default for most of world, say BA and Easyjet bosses appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
The UK's airline industry has called for more countries to be added to the "green list" for travel this week, and it 
should be the "default" for most places.
Transport secretary Grant Shapps is due to update the current traffic light system for international travel later this 
week.
In a letter to Shapps signed by the bosses of BA, Easyjet, Jet2 and others, Airlines UK boss Tim Alderslade said 
the majority of Europe, the US, and the Caribbean should be added to the "green list".
It comes as new rules exempting fully vaccinated US and EU citizens from quarantining on arrival in the UK kicked 
in.
"The world has changed since the inception of the traffic light system, and 'Green status' should increasingly 
become a default, given the changing risk equation, and mirroring the approach to domestic restrictions", 
Alderslade wrote. 
"On this basis there is no reason why, and it is essential, that much of Europe including the key volume markets, 
the US, Caribbean and other major markets, cannot turn green next week in time for the remainder of the summer 
peak."
Speaking to Sky News, Boris Johnson said that people had to remember that the virus was still "dangerous".
"I understand how much people plan and prepare for the summer holidays but we've also got to remember this is 
still a dangerous virus and that we must try and stop variants coming in, we must stop importing variants from 
abroad so we have to have a balanced approach", he said. 
'Green' status should be default for most of world, say BA and Easyjet CEOs
                     Reduce 'onerous' testing costs                   
In addition, airlines called for Shapps to reduce the cost of testing, which he described as "onerous" and 
"disproportionate".
"If the testing regime remains in place, with its cost and administrative burden, it will have a huge impact on UK 
aviation - acting effectively as around a £100 tax on flights, on average. It is unclear whether the Government has 
understood this risk. 
"We have seen no evidence that this regime is necessary for fully vaccinated travellers or those from Green 
countries, or that effective, cheaper rapid tests cannot be used from higher risk destinations."
The letter was co-signed by the bosses of BA, Easyjet, Ryanair, Tui, Virgin Atlantic and Jet2.
It comes amid a growing row after it was reported that the government is mulling plans to add even more categories 
to the traffic light system.
A new amber watchlist to track countries that could turn from amber to red quickly could cripple the travel and 
tourism sector, some Tory MPs have warned.
Conservative MP, and transport committee chair Huw Merriman, said the amber watchlist would be a "big red flag" 
for would-be tourists and would lead to holiday bookings for these countries to "collapse".
He told the BBC: "In my view, we don't need any more uncertainty, complexity, or anxiety for passengers, or this 
beleaguered sector. It just needs clarity. I would urge the government not to do anything with it."
The PM said that he wanted to see "something as simple and as user friendly for people as possible".
"On travel we've had to balance it because of the anxiety a lot of people have, I have, about importing new variants, 
bringing back the disease", he added. 
"We also have to recognise people badly want to go on their summer holidays, we have to get the travel industry 
moving again, we need to get our city centres open again, so we want an approach that is as simple as we can 
possibly make it."
The post 'Green' status should be default for most of world, say BA and Easyjet bosses  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 2, 2021
End of Document
Easyjet adopts a more aggressive strategy to face rivals
Easyjet adopts a more aggressive strategy to face rivals
Cityam.com
December 5, 2021 Sunday 3:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 434 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Easyjet's chief executive Johan Lundgren is reportedly adopting a more aggressive business strategy, 
following accusations of having behaved too cautiously during the pandemic. Lundgren stated that, after seeing 
encouraging signs for next summer, he expects demand to go back to pre-Covid levels, allowing the company to 
buy slots at airports such as London Gatwick. The [...]The post Easyjet adopts a more aggressive strategy to face 
rivals appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Easyjet's chief executive Johan Lundgren is reportedly adopting a more aggressive business strategy, following 
accusations of having behaved too cautiously during the pandemic.
Lundgren stated that, after seeing encouraging signs for next summer, he expects demand to go back to pre-Covid 
levels, allowing the company to buy slots at airports such as London Gatwick.
The chief executive hopes to satisfy a few "underwhelmed" investors, who have been calling for more a more 
aggressive approach. 
"In times of uncertainty, there will always be a space for big mouths who fill the vacuum with endless expectations 
of growth in the long term. And that is attractive, perhaps, for some people to listen to," the Swedish executive told 
the Financial Times. 
Speaking on Wednesday at London's World Aviation Festival, Lundgren stated "that this is a marathon, not a 
sprint," apparently taking a jab at competing airlines such as Wizz Air and Ryanair, which are almost at pre-Covid 
levels and wish to expand their market presence.
According to the chief executive, his cautious approach to the post-Covid recovery has spared Easyjet from an 
increase in losses in third quarter, which was registered by competitors.
Lundgren's comments come amidst the UK Government's re-introduction of travel restrictions - including last week's 
requirement for travellers to take a PCR test upon arrival and yesterday's introduction of pre-departure tests. 
Easyjet adopts a more aggressive strategy to face rivals
Earlier last week, the company reported £1.1bn in losses, with capacity decreasing to 28.2 million passengers in the 
year ending 30 September. Despite results, the airline remained positive about its ability to weather the latest Covid 
storm.
"In summary, we remain mindful that many uncertainties remain as we navigate the winter, but we see a unique 
opportunity for easyJet to win customers and take market share from rivals in this period," Lundgren told investors 
last Tuesday.
Analysts seemed to agree with Lundgren's comments, highlighting Easyjet's strong position in the market. "Having 
raised equity earlier in the year, the airline is sitting on ample liquidity to see it through oncoming headwinds, while it 
has also used the pandemic to make a meaningful difference to its cost base and operations," said Brewin 
Dolphin's senior investment manager John Moore.
"There is undoubtedly going to be some turbulence ahead, but easyJet has put itself in a good position to navigate 
its way through those challenges."
Read more
Omicron hits Easyjet bookings as losses swell to over £1bn
The post Easyjet adopts a more aggressive strategy to face rivals  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 5, 2021
End of Document
EU airlines' shares tumble following airspace closure
EU airlines' shares tumble following airspace closure
Cityam.com
February 28, 2022 Monday 3:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 329 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The shares of major European airlines have taken a tumble following the EU's decision to close its 
airspace to Russia. Legacy carriers have registered a slump, with British Airways' owner IAG going down 4.19 per 
cent, while German carrier Lufthansa registered a 4.76 per cent fall. Share of aviation colossus Air France-KLM 
went down 2.30 [...]The post EU airlines' shares tumble following airspace closure appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The shares of major European airlines have taken a tumble following the EU's decision to close its airspace to 
Russia. 
Legacy carriers have registered a slump, with British Airways' owner IAG going down 4.19 per cent, while German 
carrier Lufthansa registered a 4.76 per cent fall. 
Share of aviation colossus Air France-KLM went down 2.30 today but the most impacted was Helsinki-based airline 
Finnair who sank 20.63 per cent as it no longer will be able to connect Europe and Asia after Russia closed its 
airspace in retaliation.
According to Francesco Ragni, aviation professor at Buckinghamshire New University, the move will make flying 
between Europe and Asia more expensive and difficult.
"This will harm mostly carriers like KLM, Lufthansa or Finnair that fly a lot of routes to Asia and are geographically 
positioned near Russia. Some routes will simply become impossible or unfeasible to fly," he told City A.M. 
"This might benefit players like Turkish Airlines or the gulf carriers. They are better positioned to avoid the Russian 
air space and might actually capture some of their traffic."
Long-haul carriers were not the only ones to see a slump, as Easyjet's shares went down 4.73 per cent while 
Ryanair's fell 3.95 per cent.
After the European Commission decided to close its airspace to Russian aircraft, the Kremlin today decided to 
retaliate banning 36 countries from its skies, the 27 EU members and allies such as the UK and Canada.
EU airlines' shares tumble following airspace closure
Moscow's decision has already had a big impact on routes and leasing deals. 
Countries like Kazakhstan saw a huge increase in the number of planes flying in its airspace, while aircraft leasing 
giants such as AerCap and BOC Aviation agreed to stop leasing to Russian airlines, which represent respectively 5 
and 4.5 per cent of the companies' deals, City A.M. reported.
Read more
Russia closes airspace to 36 countries as leasing deals cease
The post EU airlines' shares tumble following airspace closure  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: March 3, 2022
End of Document
UK holidaymakers scrambling for flights home face exorbitant prices to beat quarantine deadline
UK holidaymakers scrambling for flights home face exorbitant prices to beat 
quarantine deadline
Cityam.com
June 4, 2021 Friday 5:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 941 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: British tourists and holidaymakers scrambling for flights home from Portugal before new quarantine 
requirements come into force are being chargedThe post UK holidaymakers scrambling for flights home face 
exorbitant prices to beat quarantine deadline appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British tourists and holidaymakers scrambling for flights home from Portugal before new quarantine requirements 
come into force are being charged hundreds of pounds.
People arriving in the UK from Portugal after 4am on Tuesday will need to self-isolate at home for 10 days after the 
Government moved it from the green list to the amber list.
A seat on a Ryanair flight from the capital Lisbon to Manchester on Monday costs £339, whereas travel on the 
same route is available for just £75 on Wednesday.
British Airways is charging £348 for flights from Faro to London Heathrow on Sunday and Monday, but the price 
drops to £137 on Tuesday.
EasyJet is operating larger aircraft and more flights to bring people back to the UK while British Airways has also 
increased its schedule.
Tui, the UK's largest tour operator, said it has 9,500 customers in Portugal but that was already due to have fallen 
to 2,000 by Tuesday because of the end of half-term for schoolchildren.
A spokeswoman said that half its customers with Portugal bookings for June have amended their trip - mostly until 
summer 2022 - while the other half plan to go ahead with it despite the quarantine rules.
"There is a lot of bewilderment and real frustration and confusion about what is happening," she added.
UK holidaymakers scrambling for flights home face exorbitant prices to beat quarantine deadline
The firm is allowing consumers to change dates in response to Portugal moving to the amber list, but is not offering 
refunds as the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office does not advise against travel to the country.
                     Pre-travel test                   
The requirement for travellers to take a coronavirus test in the three days before a flight to the UK departs is also 
creating difficulties for people in Portugal.
Property developer Simon Smith from Stamford, Lincolnshire, is currently in the Lagos area with his wife and two 
young children.
He hopes they can fly home on Saturday, earlier than planned, but they have been unable to get tested despite 
visiting five medical centres and the region's main hospital. He was turned away from one centre after it ran out of 
testing kits.
"There were about 35 people in the queue, all British, and they told us, 'the first 15 are okay, but the rest of you 
might as well go home because we don't have enough tests', he said.
The family has been told the airport has a small amount of Covid tests available, so plan on turning up to their flight 
five hours early in the hopes of getting one.
"If we can't get that, we can't fly", he said. "I have meetings on Friday, I can't afford 10 days' quarantine, it is a joke."
                     France                   
More positive news came out of France, which has relaxed its travel rules to allow tourists from much of the world 
into the country from June 9, including the UK, providing they are fully vaccinated or have proof of a negative test.
However, France remains of the UK's amber list, meaning tourists would still have to self-isolate at home for 10 
days upon their return.
A Portuguese epidemiologist claimed the decision to move Portugal to the amber tier was "an overreaction".
Professor Henrique Barros, president of Portugal's National Health Council, said the country's overall coronavirus 
situation is "relatively stable".
He made the comments after Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick said positive cases had doubled in the last 
three weeks in Portugal.
Prof Barros told Sky News: "We didn't reach such an increase, except as I said in a specific area around Lisbon. 
The overall picture in the country, we didn't reach such figures."
The decision to move Portugal to the amber list means people returning to the UK from there must self-isolate at 
home for 10 days.
"I think it's an overreaction," Prof Barros said.
The health chief explained that the rise in infections are mainly among people aged under 40, and there is a "very 
low incidence of cases" in the over-50s.
He stressed that hospital admissions at the present time are "very low", at less than 25 people per million. Officials 
in the country "pay a lot of attention" to monitoring the virus, he added.
                     Frustrating                   
Jenrick acknowledged that the situation was "frustrating" for travellers, but insisted the Government was "clear" that 
the classification of green list countries could change.
UK holidaymakers scrambling for flights home face exorbitant prices to beat quarantine deadline
"Those countries are being reviewed every three weeks, and so there was always a risk with a fast-moving situation 
with new variants that countries might either go on to that list, or indeed come off," he told Sky News.
The Cabinet minister said the movement of Portugal to the amber tier was partly due to "growing evidence of a 
further mutation being called the Nepal variant".
He revealed "we don't yet know how much of a problem that is" but insisted it is "important that we take a cautious 
approach".
Julia Lo Bue-Said, chief executive of travel agent group Advantage Travel Partnership, said the decision in relation 
to Portugal was "an absolute devastating blow" for consumers and the industry.
She told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "It now throws confidence completely out of the window."
She added: "It puts the industry in a really difficult position and consumers in a difficult position in order to be able to 
plan effectively."
Portugal is not the only country which moved on the traffic light rating system on Thursday.
Afghanistan, Bahrain, Costa Rica, Sudan, and Trinidad and Tobago have also been placed on the red list, meaning 
people arriving in the UK from those nations must stay in a quarantine hotel for 11 nights.
The post UK holidaymakers scrambling for flights home face exorbitant prices to beat quarantine deadline  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 4, 2021
End of Document
BA's owner IAG to pay 75m to Air Europa after pulling out of takeover agreement
BA's owner IAG to pay 75m to Air Europa after pulling out of takeover 
agreement
Cityam.com
December 16, 2021 Thursday 2:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 471 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways' (BA) owner IAG has announced today it will pay 75m (£63.7m) to Air Europa following 
yesterday's decision to pull out from a £420m takeover deal, leaving shares up 0.70 per cent at closing time. IAG 
said it would it would pay the rival carrier's owner Globalia 35m, on top a 40m break-up fee, [...]The post BA's 
owner IAG to pay 75m to Air Europa after pulling out of takeover agreement appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways' (BA) owner IAG has announced today it will pay 75m (£63.7m) to Air Europa following yesterday's 
decision to pull out from a £420m takeover deal, leaving shares up 0.70 per cent at closing time.
IAG said it would it would pay the rival carrier's owner Globalia 35m, on top a 40m break-up fee, Reuters reported. 
The group said that, while a takeover was off the table, the two companies were still examining ways to work 
together. 
"IAG has also reached an understanding with Globalia to evaluate, before the end of January 2022, alternative 
structures that may be of interest to both companies and offer significant benefits for their shareholders, customers 
and employees," Reuters reported IAG as saying. 
Initially announced in 2019, the takeover deal was cancelled yesterday as a result of the ailing state of aviation.
Buckinghamshire New University's professor of aviation management David Warnock-Smith yesterday told City 
A.M. that while atypical, current circumstances forced IAG to pull out. 
"With the more recent onset of the Omicron variant of Coronavirus, the chances of a quick rebound on international 
markets has suffered a further set back and as such the takeover's business case has weakened further, prompting 
IAG to pull out of its bid and focus resources that would have been dedicated to dealing with regulatory 
requirements, on dealing with the pandemic response instead in addition to focussing on an alternative way for the 
two organisations to co-operate in the future, which may fall short of a full takeover scenario."
BA's owner IAG to pay 75m to Air Europa after pulling out of takeover agreement
Competition concerns, including an investigation launched in June by the European Commission that was followed 
by an inquiry by the UK's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), plagued the deal. 
"The bad news just keeps coming for British Airways' parent IAG," said yesterday Laura Hoy, Hagreaves 
Lansdown's equity analyst. 
"The deal was under scrutiny from EU regulators who said the combination of IAG Spanish subsidiary Iberia and Air 
Europa created anti-competition concerns."
For the CMA, concerns especially applied to the London-Madrid market, as Ryanair, Air Europa and Easyjet only 
take up a fraction compared with IAG's market share. 
"An expanded IAG group to include Air Europa, could see IAG's market share increase further to 76 per cent, 
though it is possible that other carriers in the market would try and alter capacity offered in response to such a 
takeover, assuming there are slots available allowing them to expand, which at Heathrow and Madrid particularly 
might pose a problem for non-IAG carriers," Warnock-Smith told City A.M. at the time. 
Read more
British Airways owner IAG moves to terminate takeover agreement with Air Europa
The post BA's owner IAG to pay 75m to Air Europa after pulling out of takeover agreement  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 16, 2021
End of Document
BA 's owner IAG could face investigation over Air Europa 's takeover
BA's owner IAG could face investigation over Air Europa's takeover
Cityam.com
November 22, 2021 Monday 10:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 450 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: British Airways's owner IAG could face a formal investigation by the UK Competition and Markets 
Authority (CMA) over the proposed takeover of Spanish carrier Air Europa. The watchdog announced today that it is 
"considering whether this transaction, if carried into effect, will result in the creation of a relevant merger situation" 
that could lead to [...]The post BA's owner IAG could face investigation over Air Europa's takeover appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
British Airways's owner IAG could face a formal investigation by the UK Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
over the proposed takeover of Spanish carrier Air Europa. 
The watchdog announced today that it is "considering whether this transaction, if carried into effect, will result in the 
creation of a relevant merger situation" that could lead to "a substantial lessening of competition" in the UK market.
The CMA launched on 19 November an enquiry into the £420m merger, inviting all stakeholders involved to send 
their comments between today and 29 November. The watchdog will announce its decision by 19 January, even 
though the CMA "cannot guarantee that the decision will be announced on or before this current deadline, as the 
deadline of a given case may change during the merger assessment process due to different reasons."
"We will collaborate with the CMA," said a company spokesperson. "The London-Madrid route is highly competitive 
and is already part of the European Commission process."
According to David Warnock-Smith, professor of aviation management at Buckinghamshire New University, the 
takeover could have serious consequences for the UK-Spain market.
"When looking at market share, however, it is clear that IAG group already wields significant market power on this 
route pairing with as much as 66 per cent of all seats offered in the month of November 2021," he told City A.M. 
"Ryanair, Air Europa and easyJet only offered 20, 10 and 4 per cent of total seat capacity respectively in November, 
leading to an overall near duopolistic market situation despite the presence of four carrier groups. 
BA 's owner IAG could face investigation over Air Europa 's takeover
"An expanded IAG group to include Air Europa, could see IAG's market share increase further to 76 per cent, 
though it is possible that other carriers in the market would try and alter capacity offered in response to such a 
takeover, assuming there are slots available allowing them to expand, which at Heathrow and Madrid particularly 
might pose a problem for non-IAG carriers."
The CMA is not the first body to probe into AG's deal. In June, the European Commission opened an investigation 
in the purchase, claiming there were concerns regarding the transaction reducing competition for Spanish domestic 
and international routes, City A.M. reported. 
Late last month, the company - which owns BA as well as two of the three main Spanish carriers, Iberia and Vueling 
- offered concessions to address the EU antitrust concerns, which resulted in the Commission extending the 
deadline for a decision to 4 January.
Read more
EU opens competition probe into IAG's purchase of Air Europa
The post BA's owner IAG could face investigation over Air Europa's takeover  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 22, 2021
End of Document
Omicron optimism: Covid anxiety attack on the financial markets shows signs of alleviating
Omicron optimism: Covid anxiety attack on the financial markets shows 
signs of alleviating
Cityam.com
November 29, 2021 Monday 12:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 718 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: The anxiety attack on the financial markets shows signs of alleviating, as investors pause for breath and 
spot signs of optimism while scientists race to establish the severity of the new variant. The FTSE 100 opened up 1 
per cent in early trading, recovering some of Friday's dramatic losses and the FTSE 250 was 1.5 [...]The post 
Omicron optimism: Covid anxiety attack on the financial markets shows signs of alleviating appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
The anxiety attack on the financial markets shows signs of alleviating, as investors pause for breath and spot signs 
of optimism while scientists race to establish the severity of the new variant. 
The FTSE 100 opened up 1 per cent in early trading, recovering some of Friday's dramatic losses and the FTSE 
250 was 1.5 per cent higher.
"Amid the doom which took hold as doors were slammed shut on travel routes from Africa and increased 
restrictions were imposed, there are glimmers of hope," commented Susannah Streeter, senior investment and 
markets analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown in London. 
There are reports from doctors in South Africa that Omicron infections don't seem more severe and the World 
Health Organisation's appeal for caution also appears to have calmed some nerves. 
"It has observed that although there appears to be increasing rates of hospitalisation, that may be due to higher 
numbers being infected rather than due to its specific strain," she said.
Streeter pointed out "this has helped ease concerns that global trade will be severely dented if the new variant 
takes hold, which saw the steepest falls in the oil price in 18 months on Friday."
A barrel of Brent crude has rebounded a little, rising by 4.5 per cent initially but then falling back, hovering around 
$75 a barrel. 
Omicron optimism: Covid anxiety attack on the financial markets shows signs of alleviating
"The slight recovery in the oil price has helped BP and Shell which opened higher," Streeted noted.
Read more
Covid death rate not rising: Swap restrictions and mass hysteria for cautious optimism as Omicron mutation is 
'super mild' variant, WHO and Coronavirus experts say
After nosediving on Friday, British Airways owner IAG, has edged back upwards, up by more than 3 per cent in 
early trading, amid hopes that travel restrictions will be limited to those rolled out over the weekend, until more is 
known about the virus. EasyJet and Ryanair have also caught a ride upwards, rising by around 2 per cent.
                     FTST250                   
On the FTSE 250 the companies showing the steepest recovery were those re-opening stocks which saw some of 
the sharpest declines as fears took hold on Friday. 
Streeter pointed out that WH Smith - which has become hugely reliant on sales across its outlets across the travel 
network - jumped by 5.7 per cent while the Restaurant Group was up by 4.7 per cent in early trade, closely followed 
by Carnival, up by 4.6 per cent. 
"News of queues at vaccination sites, with demand for booster jabs high has helped with the relief wave amid 
hopes the fully vaccinated will have more confidence to keep travelling, eating out and booking cruises next year," 
she said.
"But still, this is not a complete snap back, worries remain that demand will be more subdued that expected, and 
patience is going to be the name of the game until more is known about the trajectory of this strain."
Read more
Blessing in disguise: Omicron variant may be 'very positive' news for the world if new Covid mutation kills off more 
lethal Delta coronavirus
                     BT                   
Topping the FTSE 100 leader board is BT, amid reports that India's Reliance Industries is considering a bid for the 
company. Talks are believed to be in their early stages, but Reliance is considered to be keen to get at least a 
foothold in the telecoms company. 
"It's clearly interested in BT's future growth plans with its focus on profiting from the roll out of fibre broadband and 
5G," Streeter said. 
News that the Indian conglomerate Tata Chemicals is in talks to buy the battery materials business put up for sale 
by Johnson Matthey has also sent shares in the FTSE 100 listed company higher. 
"The price tag rumoured to be attached to the potential bid of between $500 and $700m is clearly seen as attractive 
as it would give the company more financial firepower to expand its presence in hydrogen technologies."
"It's a wait and see mood on the markets today, as speculation swirls about possible takeovers and investors stay 
on high alert for any fresh detail about Omicron and its potential impact for the direction of the pandemic," Streeter 
added.
Read more
Markets digest Omicron: After worst equity day of the year on Friday, we are in for a bumpy ride this week
The post Omicron optimism: Covid anxiety attack on the financial markets shows signs of alleviating  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Omicron optimism: Covid anxiety attack on the financial markets shows signs of alleviating
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Carbon market reforms collapse in EU Parliament with lawmakers divided over climate targets
Carbon market reforms collapse in EU Parliament with lawmakers divided 
over climate targets
Cityam.com
June 8, 2022 Wednesday 4:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 610 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: The European Parliament was thrown into chaos yesterday after key environmental proposals were 
voted down by divided lawmakers.The post Carbon market reforms collapse in EU Parliament with lawmakers 
divided over climate targets appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The European Parliament was thrown into chaos today after its flagship proposal to make the trading bloc’s carbon 
market more environmentally stringent collapsed amid divisions between lawmakers.
The motion was meant to confirm parliament’s position for negotiations on a potential new law to reform the 
Emissions Trading System (ETS), which is the European Union’s (EU) main policy tool for cutting emissions – 
requiring power plants and industry to buy CO2 permits when they pollute.
Plans featured in the proposal and associated amendments included raising the emissions cut from 6 to 67 per cent 
of carbon emissions by 2030, adding shipping to the carbon market, and imposing CO2 costs on polluting fuels 
used in buildings and transport from 2025,
Approval would have put the EU on track to cut net carbon emissions by 55 per cent by the end of thedecade from 
1990 levels, in line with targets unveiled by the European Commission earlier this year.
However, the plans have now been thrown back to a parliamentary committee, which will have to redraw proposals 
to reform the market.
The rejection could set back the timeframe for finalising the law – which the EU is racing to do this year, so it can 
apply in 2023.
Green and socialist members of parliament rejected the proposals – arguing that conservative groups amendments 
had weakened the planned reforms.
Meanwhile, right-wing groups considered the plans too ambitious, especially in the light of inflationary pressures.
Carbon market reforms collapse in EU Parliament with lawmakers divided over climate targets
                     Aviation emissions                   
There were breakthroughs in other votes taking place today, with plans to ramp up emission cutting within aviation 
being approved by lawmakers.
Suncana Glavak, rapporteur for the EU Parliament’s environmental committee, took to Twitter to express her joy 
after her proposals on the reduction of aviation fuel emissions were approved.
“I am pleased that we can start inter-institutional negotiations, thanks to colleagues for their cooperation,” she 
tweeted earlier today.
Under the current legislation, only intra European flights are part of the EU carbon market but today’s vote has 
changed it to include all departing flights, especially hitting long-haul ones.
Legacy carriers have benefitted because the majority of their flights is not part of the EU’s emission trading scheme, 
as it does not apply to non-EEA destinations.
According to data major airlines such as Lufthansa, British Airways and Air France don’t pay for 77, 86, 83 per cent 
of their emissions respectively.
The strategy was criticised by short-haul carriers, who believed big polluters got away with not paying for their 
emissions, and environmental groups. Earlier this year Ryanair, Wizz Air and Easyjet signed a statement calling to 
revise the policy.
Commenting on the vote, Jo Dardenne, acting director for aviation at Transport & Environment said: “It’s finally time 
for the EU to take back responsibility for tackling the biggest chunk of aviation’s emissions. 
“Over 60 per cent of Europe’s aviation emissions will no longer be ignored, marking a major step forward in tackling 
polluting long haul flights. 
“It’s now up to national governments to make this a reality.” 
                     Fossil fuel cars                   
Lawmakers said yes to effectively banning the production of new fossil-fuel cars from 2035.
Initially drafted by the European Commission last year, the proposal is set to impose a 100 per cent reduction of 
CO2 emissions from new cars.
Read more
Travel mayhem to hit Londoners as another union joins tube strike
The post Carbon market reforms collapse in EU Parliament with lawmakers divided over climate targets  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 8, 2022
End of Document
UK airlines set to ask Treasury for extension to Covid loans
UK airlines set to ask Treasury for extension to Covid loans
Cityam.com
December 12, 2021 Sunday 4:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 403 words
Byline: Stefan Boscia
Highlight: Bosses from British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and easyJet are set to ask the Treasury to extend their 
Covid-19 loans and provide further economic help in light of new restrictions imposed by Boris Johnson last week. 
Chief executives from the three airlines will meet with civil servants at the Treasury today to discuss the proposals, 
after [...]The post UK airlines set to ask Treasury for extension to Covid loans appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Bosses from British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and easyJet are set to ask the Treasury to extend their Covid-19 loans 
and provide further economic help in light of new restrictions imposed by Boris Johnson last week.
Chief executives from the three airlines will meet with civil servants at the Treasury today to discuss the proposals, 
after airports this week warned of increasing numbers of passenger cancellations.
Read more
Follow WHO guidelines and rescind travel bans, airlines warn
Loans taken out with the government's Covid lending programme are due at the end of next year, however the 
aviation industry is facing a far longer road to post-Covid economic recovery than most other industries.
The Sunday Telegraph reports that the UK airlines will also raise the prospect of business rates relief with Treasury 
permanent secretary Charles Roxburgh, after Rishi Sunak failed to announce any new economic support to go 
along with the new Covid restrictions.
A suite of measures have been brought in as the Omicron variant spreads across the UK, which includes forcing 
international arrivals to self-isolate until they have a negative PCR test.
Heathrow Airport has warned that passenger numbers in November were 60 per cent lower than pre-pandemic 
levels and that there were "high cancellations" this week from business travellers concerned about new restrictions 
imposed worldwide.
UK airlines set to ask Treasury for extension to Covid loans
"[The] high level of cancellations by business travellers concerned about being trapped overseas because of pre-
departure testing shows the potential harm to the economy of travel restrictions," the airport said
British Airways' holding company International Airlines Group (IAG), easyJet and Ryanair all received money 
through the Bank of England's Covid Corporate Financing Fund, which provided large cash injections for 
investment grade firms.
IAG received around £300m from the fund in May last year, while Easyjet is believed to have received £500m.
IAG lost £2.49bn in the first nine months of this year, while EasyJet reported last month that it lost £1.13bn in the 
year to September 2021.
Read more
Heathrow to employ 'thousands' ahead of next summer once Plan B eases
A Treasury spokesperson said: "Senior Treasury officials have regular meetings with companies and trade 
associations to understand the impact of Covid on their businesses." 
The post UK airlines set to ask Treasury for extension to Covid loans  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 12, 2021
End of Document
Wall Street opens higher as jobs report eases inflation concerns
Wall Street opens higher as jobs report eases inflation concerns
Cityam.com
June 4, 2021 Friday 8:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 456 words
Byline: Damian Shepherd
Highlight: Wall Street's main indexes opened higher today after data showed modest US jobs growth in May, 
easing concerns about anThe post Wall Street opens higher as jobs report eases inflation concerns appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Wall Street's main indexes opened higher today after data showed modest US jobs growth in May, easing concerns 
about an early tightening of monetary policy. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.3 per cent at the open, while the Nasdaq Composite gained 0.65 per 
cent.
The S&P 500 added 0.5 per cent as it continued to rally after rising to within 0.6 per cent of its record high last 
week.
US payrolls shot up by 559,000 last month, the Labor Department said in its highly anticipated employment report 
today.
The number fell short of economists' forecasts of 650,000 new jobs in May, offering assurance to investors that the 
economy was not running too hot.
                     London markets                   
London's FTSE 100 fell today as airlines dragged down the index.
The blue-chip index was down 0.1 per cent this afternoon, as British Airways owner IAG slipped 1.4 per cent after 
Britain removed Portugal from its quarantine-free travel list.
Other airlines including Ryanair, Wizz Air and EasyJet all fell by at least one per cent.
Meanwhile, the domestically focused mid-cap FTSE 250 also dropped by 0.1 per cent.
Wall Street opens higher as jobs report eases inflation concerns
                                            Market movers                                        
The afternoon's biggest winner was publisher Pearson, who rose 2.1 per cent, followed by consumer goods 
company Reckitt Benckiser, up by 1.9 per cent.
Johnson Matthey and betting firm Flutter Entertainment also rose 1.8 per cent and 1.4 per cent respectively.
Rolls-Royce was the afternoon's biggest faller, dropping by 2.2 per cent, followed by events group Informa's 2.1 per 
cent hit.
Meanwhile, miner Antofagasta and outsourcer Bunzl both dipped by two per cent and 1.9 per cent respectively.
                                            Around the world                                        
Asian stocks fell today, dragged by the tech sector as signs of a firming US economy stoked worries about higher 
inflation and an earlier withdrawal of Fed stimulus.
MCSI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares was off 0.3 per cent, weighed down by a 0.7 per cent slide in Taiwan's 
tech-heavy stock market.
Japan's Nikkei fell 0.4 per cent, while Chinese blue chips rallied 0.6 per cent after Beijing proposed a reduction in 
stamp duty for led financial firms.
Elsewhere, Australia's benchmark rose to a record above 7,300 and was up 0.5 per cent.
"The market is still very, very bullish, and the data we got overnight out of the US was very, very positive," said Kyle 
Rodda, a market analyst at IG in Melbourne.
"I think the consensus overall is that there's reasonably limited risk that the Fed is going to pull away the 
punchbowl."
The post Wall Street opens higher as jobs report eases inflation concerns  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 4, 2021
End of Document
Mayday: Year from hell for aviation industry as empty flights crash-land by staggering 71 per cent from pre-
pandemic levels
Mayday: Year from hell for aviation industry as empty flights crash-land by 
staggering 71 per cent from pre-pandemic levels
Cityam.com
December 29, 2021 Wednesday 10:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 349 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Covid-related travel restrictions led to a 71 per cent reduction in the number of international flights to and 
from UK airports this year compared with pre-pandemic levels, new analysis shows. Aviation analytics firm Cirium 
said around 406,060 international flights served UK airports during 2021 up to December 22, compared with 
1,399,170 in the pre-pandemic period [...]The post Mayday: Year from hell for aviation industry as empty flights 
crash-land by staggering 71 per cent from pre-pandemic levels appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Covid-related travel restrictions led to a 71 per cent reduction in the number of international flights to and from UK 
airports this year compared with pre-pandemic levels, new analysis shows.
Aviation analytics firm Cirium said around 406,060 international flights served UK airports during 2021 up to 
December 22, compared with 1,399,170 in the pre-pandemic period of 2019.
The recovery of international travel from the virus crisis has been limited due to testing and quarantine 
requirements, and fears of countries being added to the red list which involved mandatory hotel quarantine.
The rules for people arriving in the UK have changed throughout the year.
Currently, fully vaccinated travellers must take a pre-departure test, and self-isolate until they receive a negative 
result from a post-arrival test. Those who are not fully vaccinated must self-isolate for 10 days after they arrive.
Read more
We're taking fewer flights - now's the time to bring back aviation's glamour
Ryanair operated with most UK flights - around 101,420, while EasyJet was in second place with 82,850 and British 
Airways was third with 77,460.
Mayday: Year from hell for aviation industry as empty flights crash-land by staggering 71 per cent from pre-
pandemic levels
The most popular international route from the UK in 2021 was London Heathrow to New York's JFK, despite the US 
only reopening its borders in November.
British Airways, Virgin Atlantic, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and JetBlue operated a total of 2,410 flights on 
the route by the end of the year.
The busiest international routes were within the Common Travel Area, which includes the UK, Ireland, the Isle of 
Man and the Channel Islands.
Arrivals into the UK on those routes did not face testing or quarantine requirements.
The number of domestic flights within the UK was down nearly 60 per cent compared with 2019. The busiest route 
was in Cornwall, between Land's End and St Mary's in the Isles of Scilly, which saw 2,330 flights.
Read more
Lufthansa cancels record 33,000 flights after dramatic crash in demand
The post Mayday: Year from hell for aviation industry as empty flights crash-land by staggering 71 per cent from 
pre-pandemic levels  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 29, 2021
End of Document
British Airways 'could be spun out' from owner IAG, says former BA boss
British Airways 'could be spun out' from owner IAG, says former BA boss
Cityam.com
June 14, 2021 Monday 7:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 467 words
Byline: Josh Martin
Highlight: British Airways 'could be spun out' from owner IAG, says former airlines boss Willie WalshThe post 
British Airways 'could be spun out' from owner IAG, says former airlines boss appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The former chief executive of both British Airways and its parent company which also owns Iberia, Aer Lingus and 
Vueling, International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG), has suggested tha British flag carrier could be spun out in 
the wake of Covid-19.
Willie Walsh, who ran IAG up until 2020, and BA before that, told the Sunday Telegrah British Airways could be sold 
off to make the company leaner or to satisfy EU ownership rules.
IAG came to being through the 2011 merger of BA and Spain's Iberia and although it is FTSE-listed, it's registered 
in Madrid and its top three senior leaders are Spanish.
Walsh said: "There's nothing to say that bits of IAG could not be sold off or cut loose.
"That was always my thinking when I was there. If one part of the business wasn't performing, or was 
under­performing, or didn't make sense, then you could dispose of that part of the business.
Walsh added: "I don't think that will happen, but it could happen."
The aviation boss, who now runs airline lobby group IATA, joined the chorus of travel executives crying foul over 
the UK Government's traffic light system  for international travel.
"I don't think you can describe the traffic light system as being in any way effective, you know, it's stuck on red," 
Walsh told the Telegraph.
"They've already abandoned the criteria that they had set out where they clearly stated that they would give people 
a fair warning if the lights were going to change...
British Airways 'could be spun out' from owner IAG, says former BA boss
"Then to pull the rug from underneath people in the way they did, I think was very, very poor, and just, you know, 
demonstrates that they're really not thinking about consumers or the public."
Walsh echoes calls from former rivals at Easyjet , Ryanair and Jet2 who have slammed the Government's rigid 
rules on arrivals into the UK from seemingly safe holiday destinations such as Portugal.
The Global Travel Taskforce was supposed to be a joint industry-government initiative that would use infection, 
testing and vaccination data to set out clear rules for the resumption of travel, but the aviation sector has said it felt 
unheard.
Charlie Cornish of Stansted owner Manchester Airports Group this month said the UK Government has spent a lot 
of time on the travel industry traffic light system "with limited involvement of the industry".
"There is no reason why more countries can't be added to the green list.," Cornish said, pointing to the Canaries 
and Balearic islands.
BA owner IAG has lost around two-thirds of its market capitalisation since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Two-thirds of IAG's revenue and profit come from the British carrier, which has been knee-capped by the collapse 
in flights to and from the US and other long-haul routes.
The post British Airways 'could be spun out' from owner IAG, says former airlines boss  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: June 14, 2021
End of Document
British Airways mulling new short-haul carrier at Gatwick
British Airways mulling new short-haul carrier at Gatwick
Cityam.com
August 26, 2021 Thursday 2:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 474 words
Byline: Edward Thicknesse
Highlight: British Airways is mulling the creation of a new short-haul subsidiary operating out of Gatwick, the airline 
confirmed today. TheThe post British Airways mulling new short-haul carrier at Gatwick appeared first on CityAM.
Body
British Airways is mulling the creation of a new short-haul subsidiary operating out of Gatwick, the airline confirmed 
today.
The IAG-owned carrier was forced to move its short-haul services from the Crawley airport to London Heathrow 
when the pandemic struck last year.
It was one of a number of airlines to close or suspend its Gatwick operations amid the worst crisis in memory for the 
sector.
But with short-haul flying now beginning to pick up amid the easing of travel restrictions, creating a new operation 
dedicated to this short journeys could allow the carrier to compete with low-cost rivals such as Ryanair and Easyjet 
until its long-haul services return in full. 
A spokesperson for BA confirmed the plans, which were first reported by the Wall Street Journal. 
"We are working with our unions on proposals for a short-haul operation at Gatwick. We are not prepared to 
comment further while this process continues", he said.
Pilot union BALPA's acting general secretary Martin Chalk said: "BALPA cautiously welcomes this decision to 
restart BA short haul operations at LGW and create a number of much needed new pilot jobs. 
"BALPA and BA are in the final stages of negotiations over the revised pay and conditions for Gatwick based BA 
pilots and we hope to bring these talks to a conclusion shortly".
Before the Open: Get the jump on the markets with our early morning newsletter
British Airways mulling new short-haul carrier at Gatwick
According to aviation consultancy Cirium, BA had 47 short-haul routes from Gatwick when it suspended services 
last spring.
Next July, assuming the same programme were to return, it would have 1,881 short-haul flights from the airport, 
second only to Easyjet.
Plans for a subsidiary at Gatwick have been repeatedly considered by BA bosses due to the struggle to make its 
operations profitable.
But with Sean Dyche now in command, the carrier is now looking to turn them to fruition.
Aviation analyst John Strickland said the move made sense for the carrier.
"Logically BA would want to come back to these short haul markets, given it had built up a successful position and 
slot usage cannot be deferred indefinitely. It must now appraise how and in what way might it do this to secure long 
term sustainability if it is to return.
"The market has changed and we see leisure traffic resurgent but very much price sensitive. It is important that 
IAG, BA's parent gets this right which could include looking at capacity from other Group airlines such as Aer 
Lingus and Vueling."
Such a move would also be a boon for Gatwick, which has seen carriers like Virgin Atlantic and Norwegian close 
their bases at the airport over the last year.
Yesterday the airport confirmed it would go ahead with plans to bring its emergency northern runway into full-time 
use for short-haul flying.
The post British Airways mulling new short-haul carrier at Gatwick  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: August 27, 2021
End of Document
Irish eyes are smiling as Ryanair nears passenger milestone
Irish eyes are smiling as Ryanair nears passenger milestone
Cityam.com
June 2, 2023 Friday 6:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 192 words
Byline: Andy Silvester
Highlight: Ryanair is closing in on a 40 per cent year on year passenger number increase, with a bumper May 
leaving 2023 up 39 per cent on the first five months of last year. Fears that aviation would be permanently smaller 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic appear to have played out in business travel but the [...]The post Irish eyes are 
smiling as Ryanair nears passenger milestone appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair is closing in on a 40 per cent year on year passenger number increase, with a bumper May leaving 2023 
up 39 per cent on the first five months of last year.
Fears that aviation would be permanently smaller due to the Covid-19 pandemic appear to have played out in 
business travel but the short-haul leisure market is as robust as ever.
Ryanair flew 94,400 flights in May, with a load factor – effectively, the number of available seats sold – of 94 per 
cent. 
Competitor Wizz Air also released its May passenger stats today.
Passenger numbers are up 58 per cent on 2022 so far, with the first few months of last year complicated by 
concerns about the Omicron strain of Covid-19. 
The Budapest-headquartered but London-listed business added a host of routes and equipment to bases in eastern 
Europe as demand bounces back. 
Most airlines make the lion’s share of their profits in the second half of the year, with the summer holidays 
particularly vital. 
Read more
Ryanair posts record £1.26bn profits – but warns of turbulence with strikes and high fuel prices
The post Irish eyes are smiling as Ryanair nears passenger milestone  appeared first on CityAM. 
Irish eyes are smiling as Ryanair nears passenger milestone
Load-Date: June 2, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair tells passengers to brace for disruption over website and app outage on 8 November
Ryanair tells passengers to brace for disruption over website and app 
outage on 8 November
Cityam.com
November 1, 2022 Tuesday 10:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 139 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Passengers have been urged to check in early as Ryanair’s website and app are set to undergo 
maintenance works later this month.  The low-cost carrier has announced the website will be down for 11 hours 
between 6pm on Tuesday 8 November to 5am on Wednesday 9 November. “Due to planned maintenance, Ryanair 
website / app [...]The post Ryanair tells passengers to brace for disruption over website and app outage on 8 
November appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Passengers have been urged to check in early as Ryanair’s website and app are set to undergo maintenance works 
later this month. 
The low-cost carrier  has announced the website will be down for 11 hours between 6pm on Tuesday 8 November 
to 5am on Wednesday 9 November.
“Due to planned maintenance, Ryanair website / app will be temporarily down from 18.00hrs Tue, 8 – 05.00hrs 
Wed, 9 Nov,” the airliner said in a statement. 
“Customers who are due to fly during this 11-hour period should check-in online before 18.00hrs on Tue, 8 Nov.”
Passengers will need to pay £55 if they check in manually at the airport.
Read more
Another player in the market? Viaplay launches its own UK sports and film streaming service
The post Ryanair tells passengers to brace for disruption over website and app outage on 8 November  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 1, 2022
Ryanair tells passengers to brace for disruption over website and app outage on 8 November
End of Document
Ryanair flies 14.2m passengers last month as Brits flock back on holiday
Ryanair flies 14.2m passengers last month as Brits flock back on holiday
Cityam.com
May 4, 2022 Wednesday 6:58 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 187 words
Byline: Leah Montebello
Highlight: Ryanair flew 14.2 million passengers in April as Brits head back on holiday. This was up 91 per cent 
from 2021 figures when the world was largely in lockdown. The strength of last month means that the airline has 
flown 110.2 million people since the start of the year, slowly but surely reaching pre-pandemic levels. [...]The post 
Ryanair flies 14.2m passengers last month as Brits flock back on holiday appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair flew 14.2 million passengers in April as Brits head back on holiday.
This was up 91 per cent from 2021 figures when the world was largely in lockdown.
The strength of last month means that the airline has flown 110.2 million people since the start of the year, slowly 
but surely reaching pre-pandemic levels.
Last month, Ryanair chief exec Michael O'Leary said that summer fares are expected to go up between five and ten 
per cent of 2019 levels.
He said lower capacity and very strong forward bookings have already started driving demand up from June 
onwards.
"What we're seeing at the moment is prices are slightly lower than they were in 2019, pre-Covid, through March, 
April and May," he told the Irish Independent. "They're somewhere between 5 and 10 per cent higher at the 
moment through June, July, August and September.
"I think fares will be up this year in the peak summer months by between 5 and 10 per cent."
Read more
Ryanair and BA under fire for allegedly forcing Ukrainian refugees to miss flights
The post Ryanair flies 14.2m passengers last month as Brits flock back on holiday  appeared first on CityAM. 
Ryanair flies 14.2m passengers last month as Brits flock back on holiday
Load-Date: May 4, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair narrows losses to £300m and expects to fly back into profitability this financial year
Ryanair narrows losses to £300m and expects to fly back into profitability 
this financial year
Cityam.com
May 16, 2022 Monday 6:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 187 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Budget airline Ryanair said this morning it has narrowed annual losses of £302m and hopes to return to 
"reasonable profitability" in its current financial year. However, chief executive Michael O'Leary said it was 
"impractical, if not impossible" to give guidance for 2022-23 due to the risk to holiday bookings from Covid and the 
Ukraine war. The [...]The post Ryanair narrows losses to £300m and expects to fly back into profitability this 
financial year appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Budget airline Ryanair said this morning it has narrowed annual losses of £302m and hopes to return to 
"reasonable profitability" in its current financial year.
However, chief executive Michael O'Leary said it was "impractical, if not impossible" to give guidance for 2022-23 
due to the risk to holiday bookings from Covid and the Ukraine war.
The group's loss for the year to March 31 was smaller than expected and narrowed from the £867m losses seen 
the previous year, when trading was badly impacted by the pandemic.
Ryanair said traffic recovered strongly as it carried 97.1 million guests, up from just 27.5 million the year before 
thanks to the lifting of pandemic restrictions.
It said it hopes to boost this further to 165 million passengers this year - ahead of the 149 million record level seen 
pre-Covid, but that it was still having to slash prices to secure bookings amid ongoing uncertainty.
Read more
Airlines UK boss Tim Alderslade warns aviation's recruitment problems are here to stay
The post Ryanair narrows losses to £300m and expects to fly back into profitability this financial year  appeared first 
on CityAM. 
Ryanair narrows losses to £300m and expects to fly back into profitability this financial year
Load-Date: May 16, 2022
End of Document
Wizz Air pandemic turnaround well underway as passenger numbers fly
Wizz Air pandemic turnaround well underway as passenger numbers fly
Cityam.com
December 2, 2022 Friday 7:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 161 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Wizz Air’s pandemic turnaround is well underway, with passenger numbers increasing soaring in the 
past year. The European carrier carried 3.6 million passengers in November, representing a 70 per cent increase 
compared to November 2021. In the past 12-months, Wizz Air has carried 44.1 million travellers – a rise of more 
than 120 per cent. [...]The post Wizz Air pandemic turnaround well underway as passenger numbers fly appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air’s pandemic turnaround is well underway, with passenger numbers increasing soaring in the past year.
The European carrier carried 3.6 million passengers in November, representing a 70 per cent increase compared to 
November 2021.
In the past 12-months, Wizz Air has carried 44.1 million travellers – a rise of more than 120 per cent.
Wizz Air CEO Jozsef Varadi told a conference in Gibraltar on Thursday that bookings at Wizz Air were intact for the 
next three months.
It chimed with what Ryanair’s boss Michael O’Leary told reporters yesterday: “Christmas is very strong. At the 
moment, Christmas bookings are running ahead of where they were pre-COVID in 2019 and pricing is ahead by a 
low double-digit percentage.”
                     More to follow.                   
Read more
Flying high: Ryanair breaks another monthly record with 15.7m passengers in October
The post Wizz Air pandemic turnaround well underway as passenger numbers fly  appeared first on CityAM. 
Wizz Air pandemic turnaround well underway as passenger numbers fly
Load-Date: December 2, 2022
End of Document
Sunak or Truss should have ‘backbone’ to strike free movement deal with EU, says Ryanair chief
Sunak or Truss should have ‘backbone’ to strike free movement deal with 
EU, says Ryanair chief
Cityam.com
August 11, 2022 Thursday 9:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 186 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: The next prime minister should have the “backbone” to secure a deal with the European Union to open 
up the free movement of labour, Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary said this morning. He told BBC Radio 
4’s Today programme: “I think the first thing they should do to boost the British economy is prioritise a [...]The post 
Sunak or Truss should have ‘backbone’ to strike free movement deal with EU, says Ryanair chief appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
The next prime minister should have the “backbone” to secure a deal with the European Union to open up the free 
movement of labour, Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary said this morning.
He told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “I think the first thing they should do to boost the British economy is 
prioritise a trade deal with the European Union – a good starting point for that would be to open up the free 
movement of labour between the UK and Europe once more.”
O’Leary, who said he accepted the result of the 2016 Brexit referendum, added: “You have to accept that you’re not 
going to get elected by a very narrow 180,000 electorate of the Tory party membership if you advocate common-
sense policies.
“But once you do become prime minister, you should have enough backbone to lead the UK economy forward and 
the starting point for that should be a free trade deal with the European Union.”
Read more
Era of 10 euro budget tickets is officially over, says Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary
The post Sunak or Truss should have ‘backbone’ to strike free movement deal with EU, says Ryanair chief  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Sunak or Truss should have ‘backbone’ to strike free movement deal with EU, says Ryanair chief
Load-Date: August 11, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair stops trading on LSE over post-Brexit regulations
Ryanair stops trading on LSE over post-Brexit regulations
Cityam.com
December 20, 2021 Monday 9:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 166 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Ryanair announced that it has stopped trading on the LSE's main market from 8am this morning, while 
maintaining a primary listing on Dublin's Euronext. The decision pushed down the low-cost carrier's shares on the 
Irish market to 13.85, 4.25 per cent less compared with the previous close. All LSE indexes were down this 
morning, with [...]The post Ryanair stops trading on LSE over post-Brexit regulations appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair announced that it has stopped trading on the LSE's main market from 8am this morning, while maintaining 
a primary listing on Dublin's Euronext. 
The decision pushed down the low-cost carrier's shares on the Irish market to 13.85, 4.25 per cent less compared 
with the previous close. 
All LSE indexes were down this morning, with FTSE100 registering a 2.03 per cent decrease, followed by FTSE350 
and FTSE all-share - down by 1.98 and 1.95 per cent respectively.
Initially announced on 19 November, the decision was made over admission fee concerns and post-Brexit 
ownership rules. To maintain full licensing rights, EU require airlines to be owned by countries within the bloc or 
with more integrated arrangements than the UK, City A.M. reported.
With an £18.4bn value, Ryanair was one of the biggest airlines listed in London.
Read more
Ryanair mocks absent Chancellor with 'come back to help out' tweet
The post Ryanair stops trading on LSE over post-Brexit regulations  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
Ryanair stops trading on LSE over post-Brexit regulations
End of Document
Ryanair turns East Midlands into major hub as it launches 30 new routes from region's airport
Ryanair turns East Midlands into major hub as it launches 30 new routes 
from region's airport
Cityam.com
November 8, 2021 Monday 8:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 99 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Ryanair has said it will operate 130 weekly flights across 31 European destinations from East Midlands 
Airport from April nextThe post Ryanair turns East Midlands into major hub as it launches 30 new routes from 
region's airport appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has said it will operate 130 weekly flights across 31 European destinations from East Midlands Airport from 
April next year, turning the regional airfield into one of its main UK hubs.
Ryanair's director of commercial, Jason McGuinness, said he was "delighted" to have extended the airline's long-
term partnership with East Midlands.
Destinations include Alicante, Barcelona, Lanzarote, Malaga, Mallorca, Rhodes and Tenerife. 
No further details were released.
The post Ryanair turns East Midlands into major hub as it launches 30 new routes from region's airport  appeared 
first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
Checking out: Ryanair confirms plans to delist from London Stock Exchange
Checking out: Ryanair confirms plans to delist from London Stock Exchange
Cityam.com
November 19, 2021 Friday 8:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 135 words
Byline: Michiel Willems
Highlight: Ryanair has confirmed plans to delist from the London Stock Exchange and remain listed solely in 
Ireland. The budget airline said the volume of trading of its shares on the London market "does not justify the costs 
related to such listing and admission to trading". Its last day of trading will be December 17. The [...]The post 
Checking out: Ryanair confirms plans to delist from London Stock Exchange appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair has confirmed plans to delist from the London Stock Exchange and remain listed solely in Ireland.
The budget airline said the volume of trading of its shares on the London market "does not justify the costs related 
to such listing and admission to trading".
Its last day of trading will be December 17.
The decision is a blow to the main market, with the company valued at £18.4bn.
However, it was widely expected and followed indications in its half-year results and shareholder discussions.
The company will continue to have a primary listing on Euronext Dublin.
                       More to follow...                   
Read more
Ryanair posts first profit since Covid but mulls London delisting
The post Checking out: Ryanair confirms plans to delist from London Stock Exchange  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
Checking out: Ryanair confirms plans to delist from London Stock Exchange
End of Document
The City View: November 19: Ryanair , borrowing, and Boris' week from hell
The City View: November 19: Ryanair, borrowing, and Boris' week from hell
Cityam.com
October 4, 2021 Monday 6:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 79 words
Byline: Andy Silvester
Highlight: Andy Silvester hosts the Friday edition of City A.M.'s evening podcast The City View, looking into 
Ryanair's delisting, concerning borrowing figures, and a bumper payday for the Premier League courtesy of 
American friends. Andy is also joined by Sascha O'Sullivan, City A.M.'s Opinion and Features Editor, to look back at 
an extraordinary week in British [...]The post The City View: November 19: Ryanair, borrowing, and Boris' week 
from hell appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Andy Silvester hosts the Friday edition of City A.M.'s evening podcast The City View, looking into Ryanair's 
delisting, concerning borrowing figures, and a bumper payday for the Premier League courtesy of American friends. 
Andy is also joined by Sascha O'Sullivan, City A.M.'s Opinion and Features Editor, to look back at an extraordinary 
week in British politics. 
The post The City View: November 19: Ryanair, borrowing, and Boris' week from hell  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair boss could be set for monster payout as stocks rise
Ryanair boss could be set for monster payout as stocks rise
Cityam.com
August 2, 2021 Monday 11:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 179 words
Byline: Julian Bovill
Highlight: Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary could be set for a lucrative £85m payout despite the turbulence that the 
travel industry hasThe post Ryanair boss O'Leary could be set for an £85m bonus as the airline looks to recover 
from pandemic turbulence appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary could be set for a lucrative £85m payout despite the turbulence that the travel 
industry has experienced in the last 18 months.
The Irish businessman stands to land the money should Ryanair's stock hit 21 or above for a 28-day period 
between 2021 and 2024. 
It could also be triggered if Ryanair's profits double to 2bn. 
Ryanair's shares currently come in at 16.74, up 27p from where they closed on Friday. 
Like other airlines and travel companies the pandemic has battered the firm. It is said to have lost £900m over the 
course of the pandemic. 
The airline group posted a net loss of 273m for its first quarter - the three months to the end of June. 
However, it last week announced that it could make a profit for the second quarter and even break even for the 
financial year. 
Such bullish statements, as well as a return of some holiday destinations, have impressed investors and shares 
have since risen.
The post Ryanair boss O'Leary could be set for an £85m bonus as the airline looks to recover from pandemic 
turbulence  appeared first on CityAM. 
Ryanair boss could be set for monster payout as stocks rise
Load-Date: August 2, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair expects losses to double as Omicron eats into bookings
Ryanair expects losses to double as Omicron eats into bookings
Cityam.com
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 4:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 193 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Low-cost carrier Ryanair is expecting its losses for the year ending March to double following concerns 
over the latest Covid variant, Omicron. The company's shares on the ISE went down today 1.06 per cent to 15.43. 
The airline said its net losses will range between 250m to 450m, compared with 100-200m that was previously 
estimated, [...]The post Ryanair expects losses to double as Omicron eats into bookings appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair is expecting its losses for the year ending March to double following concerns over the 
latest Covid variant, Omicron.
The company's shares on the ISE went down today 1.06 per cent to 15.43.
The airline said its net losses will range between 250m to 450m, compared with 100-200m that was previously 
estimated, Reuters reported.
Traffic forecasts for January have also gone down 33 per cent due to the strengthening of curbs, including the travel 
restrictions introduced by countries like France and Germany for UK travellers.
December projections have gone down to between 9 and 9.5 million passengers, from an initial range of 10 to 11 
million.
"These figures are hugely sensitive to any further positive or negative Covid news flow," Ryanair said.
Easyjet's announcement comes a few days after the airline stopped trading on the LSE. Initially announced on 19 
November, the decision was made over admission fee concerns and post-Brexit ownership rules, City A.M. 
reported.
Read more
Ryanair stops trading on LSE over post-Brexit regulations
The post Ryanair expects losses to double as Omicron eats into bookings  appeared first on CityAM. 
Ryanair expects losses to double as Omicron eats into bookings
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
More competitive travel prices on the horizon? Wizz Air poaches Gatwick take-off slots
More competitive travel prices on the horizon? Wizz Air poaches Gatwick 
take-off slots
Cityam.com
December 23, 2021 Thursday 7:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 192 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Budget carrier Wizz Air is set to be taking off from Gatwick next spring, after winning the rights at 
Britain's second largest airport. It puts Wizz in a strong position going into the new year, after several years of 
battling rivals Ryanair and easyJet in the affordable European short-haul market. As travel prices rise alongside 
[...]The post More competitive travel prices on the horizon? Wizz Air poaches Gatwick take-off slots appeared first 
on CityAM.
Body
Budget carrier Wizz Air is set to be taking off from Gatwick next spring, after winning the rights at Britain's second 
largest airport.
It puts Wizz in a strong position going into the new year, after several years of battling rivals Ryanair and easyJet in 
the affordable European short-haul market.
As travel prices rise alongside inflation, after a gruelling two years for the industry, it will usher in greater levels of 
competition - which could prompt more competitive prices.
The move will also see it employ 250 staff at Gatwick and will debut five aircrafts to be based there - with the option 
to grow its offering in the future.
The budget airline has snapped up 15 pairs of take-off and landing slots from Scandinavian carrier Norwegian, it 
confirmed today, after the pandemic pushed it back towards the continent.
Norwegian had been hit hard by the pandemic restrictions on travel, which saw it reel its operation in towards its 
original Nordic market.
Read more
Rail fares to increase by a third by 2030 as travel numbers plunge
More competitive travel prices on the horizon? Wizz Air poaches Gatwick take-off slots
The post More competitive travel prices on the horizon? Wizz Air poaches Gatwick take-off slots  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Eurostar prepares for busiest weekend as thousands flock to Paris for Six Nations' final
Eurostar prepares for busiest weekend as thousands flock to Paris for Six 
Nations' final
Cityam.com
March 16, 2022 Wednesday 10:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 152 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Eurostar is preparing for its busiest weekend this year, as thousands travel to Paris for the Six Nations' 
final between France and England. Eurostar said it is expecting 20,000 people to take the train between London 
and Paris this weekend - a 12 per cent surge compared to normal times. The railway operator added an [...]The 
post Eurostar prepares for busiest weekend as thousands flock to Paris for Six Nations' final appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Eurostar is preparing for its busiest weekend this year, as thousands travel to Paris for the Six Nations' final 
between France and England.
Eurostar said it is expecting 20,000 people to take the train between London and Paris this weekend - a 12 per cent 
surge compared to normal times. 
The railway operator added an extra service on Sunday to make space for Brits travelling from Paris.
"We all very much look forward to welcoming England fans onboard Eurostar this weekend," Eurostar's chief 
commercial officer Francois Le Doze said. 
"With the UK's removal of all testing requirements and the passenger locator form from this Friday, fans will be able 
to enjoy a seamless city-centre to city-centre travel experience." 
Read more
Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights
The post Eurostar prepares for busiest weekend as thousands flock to Paris for Six Nations' final  appeared first on 
CityAM. 
Eurostar prepares for busiest weekend as thousands flock to Paris for Six Nations' final
Load-Date: March 16, 2022
End of Document
Lufthansa suspends all fights to Ukraine amid invasion fears
Lufthansa suspends all fights to Ukraine amid invasion fears
Cityam.com
February 20, 2022 Sunday 11:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 189 words
Byline: Leah Montebello
Highlight: Lufthansa has announced it will be suspending all flights to the Ukraine capital Kyiv from tomorrow as 
fears of a Russian invasion grow. The German airline said it will also stop flights to Odessa, a key port city on the 
Black Sea. The response contrasts to the Irish budget airline Ryanair and the Hungarian Wizz [...]The post 
Lufthansa suspends all fights to Ukraine amid invasion fears appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Lufthansa has announced it will be suspending all flights to the Ukraine capital Kyiv from tomorrow as fears of a 
Russian invasion grow. 
The German airline said it will also stop flights to Odessa, a key port city on the Black Sea.
The response contrasts to the Irish budget airline Ryanair and the Hungarian Wizz Air, who are still running flights 
to the Ukraine. 
Last week, Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary said it was important "not to panic", and said: "Is it our duty 
and obligation to support the people of Ukraine as long as there is no war or missiles flying there."
This morning, Europe minister James Cleverly said a Russian invasion of Ukraine is "very, very likely and very, very 
imminent"
Cleverly said that "at the moment, an attack, an invasion seems far more likely than unlikely but we will continue to 
work to try and avert that".
Boris Johnson also warned this weekend that Russia is planning "the biggest war in Europe since 1945".
Read more
Russian invasion of Ukraine would 'echo around the world', warns Johnson
The post Lufthansa suspends all fights to Ukraine amid invasion fears  appeared first on CityAM. 
Lufthansa suspends all fights to Ukraine amid invasion fears
Load-Date: February 20, 2022
End of Document
Automotive developer First Hydrogen joins Cambridge University in hydrogen technology project
Automotive developer First Hydrogen joins Cambridge University in 
hydrogen technology project
Cityam.com
November 9, 2021 Tuesday 8:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 195 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Hydrogen vehicle developer First Hydrogen has partnered with Cambridge University to research 
hydrogen production and mobility. The parternship, which will run for five years at the university, will focus on how 
to best develop hydrogen technology for the automotive industry, in particular as regards production and fuel 
distribution. The first project researchers will focus on [...]The post Automotive developer First Hydrogen joins 
Cambridge University in hydrogen technology project appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Hydrogen vehicle developer First Hydrogen has partnered with Cambridge University to research hydrogen 
production and mobility. 
The parternship, which will run for five years at the university, will focus on how to best develop hydrogen 
technology for the automotive industry, in particular as regards production and fuel distribution. 
The first project researchers will focus on is the development of an AI software to harvest user and supplier 
information about hydrogen usage, better informing business cases and helping to direct funds towards the 
industry. 
"This partnership exemplifies the opportunities that can arise when academia combines with commercial entities," 
said Professor Clemens Kaminski, head of chemical engineering and biotechnology at Cambridge. 
"The hydrogen economy is rapidly evolving, and this project offers an excellent opportunity to solve industrial 
problems and reduce impact on the environment."
Read more
Ryanair boss says Ukraine operations will continue as long as "there is no war or missiles flying there"
The post Automotive developer First Hydrogen joins Cambridge University in hydrogen technology project  
appeared first on CityAM. 
Automotive developer First Hydrogen joins Cambridge University in hydrogen technology project
Load-Date: February 16, 2022
End of Document
Wizz Air passenger numbers triple in a year as the industry eyes recovery
Wizz Air passenger numbers triple in a year as the industry eyes recovery
Cityam.com
July 2, 2021 Friday 8:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 193 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: Wizz Air carried around 1.5m passengers this month, a welcomed change from the some 500,000 it 
ferried in June lastThe post Wizz Air passenger numbers triple in a year as the industry eyes recovery appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Wizz Air carried around 1.5m passengers this month, a welcomed change from the some 500,000 it ferried in June 
last year.
The Hungarian airline is set to open a sixth Italian base in Naples, which offers passengers 18 new international 
and domestic routes, as the industry eyes recovery.
Wizz Air has also confirmed two new routes to Barcelona and Cologne from July, with European holidays the most 
likely for Brits with cabin fever.
The airline appears to be bolstering its offering, looking to capitalise on pent-up demand after a year of curbed 
travel. 
Shares were up 0.61 per cent in Wizz's afternoon trading, taking its total share price to 4,759.
Fellow airline Ryanair also posted ballooning numbers, as the coveted green list entices travellers.
"We are ramping up. We are seeing a less constrained environment going into peak summer and quite likely we're 
going to be above our 2019 capacity in a month or two from now," CEO Jozsef Varadi said earlier this month.
The airline boss added that the carrier was largely operating at cash neutral levels.
The post Wizz Air passenger numbers triple in a year as the industry eyes recovery  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: July 2, 2021
Wizz Air passenger numbers triple in a year as the industry eyes recovery
End of Document
Air France becomes latest airline to scrap Ukraine flights
Air France becomes latest airline to scrap Ukraine flights
Cityam.com
February 21, 2022 Monday 4:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 179 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Air France has decided to cancel tomorrow's flights between Paris and Kiev "as a precautionary 
measure" following the increasing tensions between Ukraine and Russia. "In view of the local situation and as a 
precautionary measure, flights AF1752 and AF1753 to and from Kiev (KBP) on Tuesday 22 February 2022 are 
cancelled," the carrier told Reuters. [...]The post Air France becomes latest airline to scrap Ukraine flights appeared 
first on CityAM.
Body
Air France has decided to cancel tomorrow's flights between Paris and Kiev "as a precautionary measure" following 
the increasing tensions between Ukraine and Russia.
"In view of the local situation and as a precautionary measure, flights AF1752 and AF1753 to and from Kiev (KBP) 
on Tuesday 22 February 2022 are cancelled," the carrier told Reuters. "Air France is constantly monitoring the 
geopolitical situation in the territories it serves."
The company is the latest airline to scrap its flights because of Russia's potential invasion of Ukraine. On Sunday, 
German carrier Lufthansa decided to halt all operations while on Thursday low-cost company Vueling did the same.
Low-cost carriers Ryanair and Wizz Air have instead decided to continue operations, with Ryanair boss Micheal 
O'Leary saying the company will continue to fly as long as "there is no war or missiles flying there," City A.M. 
reported. 
Read more
TfL long-term funding talks with government postponed until Friday
The post Air France becomes latest airline to scrap Ukraine flights  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: February 22, 2022
Air France becomes latest airline to scrap Ukraine flights
End of Document
Guess who's back: Flybe to go on sale next week
Guess who's back: Flybe to go on sale next week
Cityam.com
March 16, 2022 Wednesday 11:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 195 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Almost two years after its collapse, UK regional airline Flybe is set to go on sale from next week. The 
carrier announced today a full list of routes and destinations from its Birmingham and Belfast City airport hubs. 
"Once we start flying from Birmingham, Belfast and many other cities in the UK and EU, we [...]The post Guess 
who's back: Flybe to go on sale next week appeared first on CityAM.
Body
Almost two years after its collapse, UK regional airline Flybe is set to go on sale from next week.
The carrier announced today a full list of routes and destinations from its Birmingham and Belfast City airport hubs.
"Once we start flying from Birmingham, Belfast and many other cities in the UK and EU, we are confident that a 
new and improved Flybe will provide customers with great value, more choices, and the opportunity to quickly and 
more conveniently visit loved ones, go on holiday, and more easily visit customers or attend important meetings," 
said chief executive Dave Pflieger.
"Given that goal, Flybe hopes to do its part to help communities across the country bounce back from the dramatic 
impact of the global pandemic."
Flybe, who was forced to declare bankrupt in 2020 because of the pandemic, announced last year its return to the 
skies.
The regional airline, who was bought in April 2021 by shell company Thyme Opco, announced it would move its 
headquarters from Exeter to Birmingham, City A.M. reported.
Read more
Ryanair in hot water over cost of Ukraine repatriation flights
The post Guess who's back: Flybe to go on sale next week  appeared first on CityAM. 
Guess who's back: Flybe to go on sale next week
Load-Date: March 16, 2022
End of Document
TUI 's main shareholder Alexey Mordashov resigns following EU sanctions
TUI's main shareholder Alexey Mordashov resigns following EU sanctions
Cityam.com
March 2, 2022 Wednesday 3:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 179 words
Byline: Ilaria Grasso Macola
Highlight: Russian billionaire Alexey Mordashov resigned today from travel firm TUI's board after he became a 
target of the EU sanctions against Russia. Mordashov, a close friend of Vladimir Putin, has been TUI's majority 
shareholder for around 15 years, owning 34 per cent stake of the company. The remaining 66 per cent is owned by 
several [...]The post TUI's main shareholder Alexey Mordashov resigns following EU sanctions appeared first on 
CityAM.
Body
Russian billionaire Alexey Mordashov resigned today from travel firm TUI's board after he became a target of the 
EU sanctions against Russia.
Mordashov, a close friend of Vladimir Putin, has been TUI's majority shareholder for around 15 years, owning 34 
per cent stake of the company. The remaining 66 per cent is owned by several private and institutional investors 
from the UK, Germany and the US.
"The aim of the EU sanctions is to prevent Mr Mordashov from disposing of his shares in TUI AG," said the 
company in a statement. "This is to prevent Mr Mordashov from realising any proceeds or profits from his 
investment in TUI."
The sanctions, imposed on Sunday by the European Commission following the Kremlin's invasion of Ukraine, relate 
only to Mordashov as a person and do not involve TUI as a company. 
The oligarch's departure pushed TUI shares to its lowest in a month, hitting 206.70p at 9am today.
Read more
"We will be the first back to Ukraine", says Ryanair boss
The post TUI's main shareholder Alexey Mordashov resigns following EU sanctions  appeared first on CityAM. 
TUI 's main shareholder Alexey Mordashov resigns following EU sanctions
Load-Date: March 3, 2022
End of Document
FTSE 100 lifted slightly by travel stocks
FTSE 100 lifted slightly by travel stocks
Cityam.com
October 8, 2021 Friday 8:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Length: 152 words
Byline: Millie Turner
Highlight: The FTSE 100 inched 0.3 per cent higher this morning, as travel stocks lifted the index after a hoard 
ofThe post FTSE 100 lifted slightly by travel stocks appeared first on CityAM.
Body
The FTSE 100 inched 0.3 per cent higher this morning, as travel stocks lifted the index after a hoard of destinations 
were taken off the red list.
British-Airways owner ICAG, Whitbread and Ryanair gained between 0.5 per cent and 2.9 per cent.
Though the FTSE 250 slipped 0.12 per cent dragged by fellow travel heavyweight TUI, which dropped 12.5 per cent 
just days after it announced it would raise 1.1bn by selling new stock.
Alongside Curry's and the Weir group, student accommodation group Unite weighed on the index as it said 
restrictions around international travel as a result of the pandemic have impacted its occupancy levels in some of its 
cities in its trading update today. 
It comes as the pan-European STOXX 600 index dipped 0.2 per cent, with tech stocks down 0.9 per cent.
                     More to follow.                   
The post FTSE 100 lifted slightly by travel stocks  appeared first on CityAM. 
Load-Date: October 8, 2021
End of Document
