Also in the news...
Also in the news...
Financial Times (London, England)
August 23, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - WEEK IN REVIEW; Pg. 12
Length: 220 words
Body
Remember Primani? Back in 2008 - probably after a famous thin woman was papped in its £3 T-shirts - the 
discount clothes brand Primark was accorded parity with Armani. How, then, will fashionistas refer to the new 
collection from supermarket Lidl , featuring a £14.99 leather jacket? Karl Lidlfeld? Romeo Giglidli? Chan-idl?
The uniquely British rite of passage known as 'The Holiday to Ayia Napa' may soon include a fitting final challenge: 
having survived the Cypriot fleshpot's noxious blend of lager, kebabs, shots and more lager, the nation's teens 
could find themselves flying home on Ryanair , after the Irish "airline" held talks to take over Cyprus Airways.
Brainstorming, LVMH , Paris. "So we own Dom Perignon, Givenchy, Louis Vuitton, and De Beers. But, given our 
mission 'to represent the most refined qualities of Western Art de Vivre', what's missing?" "A stake in portly Korean 
rap artist Psy and his tiresome internet meme Gangnam Style ?" "Of course! $80m should do it. Allons-y!"
It was the six-pack that launched a glittering pop career, a fairytale romance, another shorter pop career, and too 
many reality TV shows. But, now, Peter Andre - Antipodean phenomenon and ex-husband of Jordan - is to be the 
new face, if not torso, of frozen food retailer Iceland . Remember "Flava"? Neither do the customers.
Load-Date: August 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair in talks to buy Cyprus Air Ryanair Cyprus
Ryanair in talks to buy Cyprus Air; Ryanair Cyprus
Business World (Digest)
August 22, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 305 words
Highlight: Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary is today in Cyprus for talks with the government about the 
possible takeover of loss-making carrier Cyprus Airways, he told journalists.
Body
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary is today in Cyprus for talks with the government about the possible 
takeover of loss-making carrier Cyprus Airways, he told journalists.
Ryanair was among nearly 20 companies which last month submitted non-binding expressions of interest in the 
airline, now controlled by the Cypriot government. The process is a preliminary step towards any eventual binding 
offer.
O'Leary's announcement marked a change of approach as he had said last month that Ryanair, Europe's largest 
budget airline, was not particularly interested in acquiring the carrier.
"We are engaged in the process and hope something will come of it. It's a very political process down there," he 
told a new conference in Dublin on Thursday, adding that any deal would be small relative to Ryanair's overall 
growth strategy. Under his company's proposal, Cypriot Airways would retain its brand and operate under a 
separate air operator's certificate to Ryanair, he said. The Irish airline will propose it could boost the airline's 
passenger numbers to 3 million per year from 600,000 currently, down 50 percent from peak, O'Leary said. He 
declined to give any further details. Ryanair has only ever taken over one other airline, Buzz, which was absorbed 
into the Ryanair brand. Cyprus Airways has struggled to survive against cheaper competitors and has been loss-
making for years despite several attempts at a turnaround. The airline has recently resorted to selling assets to stay 
afloat, including its slots at London's Heathrow airport. It is also under scrutiny by the European Commission. 
Brussels is investigating terms of a 31.3 million euro capital increase in early 2013, and a 73 million euro rescue 
package by the Cypriot state in 2012 to establish whether it violated state aid rules. For more visit: 
www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair in talks to buy Cyprus Air Ryanair Cyprus
Load-Date: August 26, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair renews interest in bid for Cyprus Air
Ryanair renews interest in bid for Cyprus Air
City A.M.
August 22, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 239 words
Byline: HARRY BANKS
Body
RYANAIR chief executive Michael O'Leary flew out to Cyprus yesterday for talks with the government over the 
budget airline's possible acquisition of national carrier Cyprus Airways.
The move appears to signal a U-turn to O'Leary's assertion last month that Ryanair was not interested in buying the 
troubled Cypriot carrier.
It emerged yesterday that the Irish airline was on a list of approximately 20 companies that last month submitted 
non-binding expressions of inter-est in the airline, the first step towards securing a binding offer. The government - 
which holds 94 per cent of Cyprus Airways' shares - put the carrier up for sale in July to save it from bankruptcy.
"We are engaged in the process and hope something will come of it. It's a very political process down there,O'Leary 
said.
According to Ryanair's proposition, Cyprus Airways would retain its brand and would operate under a separate air 
operator's certificate to Ryanair, said O'Leary. Ryanair would look to boost the Cypriot carrier's passenger numbers 
to three million annually, from the current figure of 600,000, he added.
Cyprus Airways has been in financial trouble for years, struggling to compete with cheaper airlines. In that time, the 
airline has attempted to turn itself around multiple times, most recently selling off assets including its spaces at 
Heathrow Airport.
Ryanair Holdings PLC (EURO)6.90 6.80 21 Aug 6.85 6.80 6.75 20 Aug 21 Aug 15 Aug 18 Aug 19 Aug
Ryanair renews interest in bid for Cyprus Air
Load-Date: August 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair pursues takeover of ailing Cyprus Airways TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair pursues takeover of ailing Cyprus Airways; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
August 22, 2014 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 14
Length: 241 words
Byline: Vincent Boland
Body
Ryanair opened talks yesterday about a takeover of lossmaking Cyprus Airways as it looks to open new routes and 
create more hubs in the Mediterranean.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive, who was due to meet government officials in Nicosia, said Ryanair was "engaged 
in the process" with the Cypriot government about buying the island's carrier, and hoped something would come of 
the initiative.
But he warned of a "very political process" in Cyprus.
Up to 20 airlines have submitted expressions of interest to the Cypriot government to buy the airline, which was 
badly hit by the collapse of the island's economy.
Ryanair has not made an acquisition since it bought Buzz more than a decade ago, and Mr O'Leary has often 
disdained the take-over approach to expansion. That has not stopped him from laying siege to Aer Lingus , in which 
Ryanair owns nearly 30 per cent. His attempt to buy his Irish rival has been blocked by regulators and the Dublin 
government.
Analysts said any purchase could make long-term sense for Ryanair as it pursued its aim of lifting passenger 
numbers by about half, to 120m, within five years.
Ryanair pursues takeover of ailing Cyprus Airways TRAVEL & LEISURE
Cyprus Airways has six aircraft. Ryanair has 180 Boeing 737s on order, the first of which are due to be delivered 
this year.
David Holohan, head of research at Merrion Capital, a Dublin broker, said Ryan-air could create a hub in Cyprus if it 
wanted to target north African destinations and expand around the Mediterranean.
Vincent Boland 
Load-Date: August 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch new Dublin Brussels route Ryanair Dublin
Ryanair launch new Dublin Brussels route; Ryanair Dublin
Business World (Digest)
August 21, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 253 words
Highlight: Ryanair this morning said it will launch a new Dublin-Brussels Zaventem route as part of an extended 
Dublin winter 2014 schedule.
Body
Ryanair this morning said it will launch a new Dublin-Brussels Zaventem route as part of an extended Dublin winter 
2014 schedule.
The new season will have nine new routes and increased flights on 21 existing routes to and from Dublin Airport.
This new three times daily Brussels Zaventem route, which compliments Ryanair's existing Dublin-Brussels 
Charleroi route, will help Irish business and Govt save over E10m on their annual travel bill, the airline said.
In Dublin, Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch this new three-times daily Dublin-Brussels 
Zaventem route as part of an expanded Dublin 2014 winter schedule, with 9 new routes to Basel, Brussels 
Zaventem, Bucharest, Cologne, Glasgow International, Lisbon, Marrakesh, Nice and Prague, as well as increased 
frequencies on 21 other business routes. This new Brussels Zaventem route will save the public and private sector 
over E3m p.a. in travel costs. Our 9 new Dublin winter routes with multiple daily frequencies are ideal for business 
customers. Irish consumers already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great 
route choice. Now they can also book their flights on our improved website and great new app, carry a free small 
2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra service, and use their personal electronic 
devices at all stages of their flight. We will shortly launch a tailored business product, as Ryanair continues to 
deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: August 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair appoints new board member
Ryanair appoints new board member
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 21, 2014 Thursday 7:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 121 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited, an Irish low-cost airline, has appointed Michael Cawley as a new board member.
Body
Michael previously worked with Ryanair for 17 years and contributed enormously to Ryanair's growth and success 
until he retired in March 2014. He served as Ryanair's Deputy CEO and COO. Michael's other non-executive 
directorships include Paddy Power plc, Kingspan Group plc and he is Chairman of Failte Ireland. Ryanair 
Chairman, David Bonderman, said: "I am delighted that Michael has accepted our invitation to join the Board of 
Ryanair. His experience, skills, and in-depth knowledge of the industry will be of great benefit to the Board and we 
all look forward to working closely with him as we continue to safely and successfully grow Ryanair across Europe, 
to the benefit of our customers, our people and our shareholders."
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair slash Danish routes over tax; Ryanair Denmark
Ryanair slash Danish routes over tax; Ryanair Denmark
Business World (Digest)
August 20, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 179 words
Highlight: Ryanair has drastically cut its routes in and out of Denmark, with local media reports citing increased 
and "double" taxation between Denmark and Ireland.
Body
Ryanair has drastically cut its routes in and out of Denmark, with local media reports citing increased and "double" 
taxation between Denmark and Ireland.
Ryanair said that the reductions have nothing to do with taxes and everything to do with seasonal scheduling.
"All airlines operate more flights and routes in summer than in winter, given summer is the peak season for 
demand," said company Elina Hakkarainen. "Ryanair is no different."
The Irish low-cost airline has dropped the number of Danish routes from 23 to only five nationwide with the biggest 
loser being Billund Airport in Jutland, which has seen 14 of its 18 weekly flights cut by the airline. The Danish online 
press say reason behind the cuts is said to be a double tax that could be levied against airline employees from 
January 1 next year. If the agreement is approved by politicians in Ireland and Denmark this autumn, Danes based 
in Denmark who are employed by the Irish airline (who already pay taxes in Ireland) could also be taxed Denmark, 
according to check-in.dk. For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 25, 2014
End of Document
John Hurley Ryanair's new tech chief; Ryanair Tech
John Hurley Ryanair's new tech chief; Ryanair Tech
Business World (Digest)
August 20, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 167 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced the appointment of John Hurley as its Chief Technology Officer.
Body
Ryanair today announced the appointment of John Hurley as its Chief Technology Officer.
He joins Ryanair on 15th September 2014 from Houghton Mifflin Harcourt plc.
Working closely with the CEO and the Ryanair Labs team, he will be responsible for developing and implementing a 
world-leading digital and technology strategy, heading up a team of 200 people as he oversees the roll-out of the 
Ryanair Labs digital innovation hub based at Ryanair's new Dublin Campus in Swords.
Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "We are pleased to appoint John Hurley as Chief Technology Officer, who will head 
up our Ryanair Labs team, as we continue to implement our programme of digital and customer improvements." 
John Hurley said: "I am delighted to be joining Ryanair, Europe's biggest airline. I look forward to working with the 
best airline and digital technology professionals as we develop a world-class infrastructure to further improve the 
Ryanair experience for our 86m customers." For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair July passenger traffic increases
Ryanair July passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 20, 2014 Wednesday 11:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 88 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has reported that passenger traffic for the month of July 2014 was 9.15 million passengers, 
an increase of 4%, compared to 8.84 million passengers for July 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of July 2014 was 91%, an increase of three percentage points, compared to 88% for July 
2013. Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 300,000 to 9.15m customers in 
July, thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our great new website and mobile 
app, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and PED use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so 
much more than just the lowest fares in every market for our 83m customers."
Load-Date: August 26, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair and PayPal in payment deal Ryanair PayPal
Ryanair and PayPal in payment deal; Ryanair PayPal
Business World (Digest)
August 18, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 241 words
Highlight: Ryanair and PayPal today said that they have agreed a deal that will allow people pay for Ryanair flights 
through PayPal.
Body
Ryanair and PayPal today said that they have agreed a deal that will allow people pay for Ryanair flights through 
PayPal.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Millions of European consumers use PayPal on a daily 
basis and as Europe's biggest airline, Ryanair is pleased to launch our new partnership, offering our 86m 
customers even more ways to book and pay for Europe's lowest air fares on the Ryanair.com website. Our 
partnership with PayPal is the latest element of our Always Getting Better programme and our commitment to the 
continued improvement of our customer experience, and follows the introduction of allocated seating, a free second 
carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a new app and mobile boarding passes and our Ryanair Family Extra 
service. We will next unveil our tailored business product, as we continue to offer so much more than just the lowest 
fares."
PayPal's Vice President for Global Operations Europe, Middle East and Africa, Louise Phelan said: "Ryanair 
revolutionised low fare air travel in Europe. As the pioneer of faster, safer online payments, PayPal is delighted to 
help Ryanair develop its customer experience by making it even easier and quicker for travellers to book and pay 
for their flights online. With our 152 million active accounts across the world, we're also making it easier for 
businesses such as Ryanair to expand their international sales."
For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 20, 2014
Ryanair and PayPal in payment deal Ryanair PayPal
End of Document
Monarch to cut costs and plane numbers to fight budget rivals
Monarch to cut costs and plane numbers to fight budget rivals
City A.M.
August 18, 2014 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 168 words
Byline: THOMAS FITZGERALD
Body
MONARCH Airlines is believed to be considering cutting around 1,000 jobs as part of a major strategic review as it 
seeks to revive its fortunes in a bid to take on low-cost rivals such as easyJet and Ryanair.
Delivering the strategic review is one of the key goals of new chief executive Andrew Swaffield, who was appointed 
at the end of last month. Swaffield joined Monarch in April as a managing director, having previously worked at 
British Airways.
As part of the proposals as it repositions itself as a scheduled lowcost carrier, Monarch is likely to cut its aircraft 
numbers, from the current 42 down to 30, and slash the number of its charter and long-haul flights, according to the 
Sunday Times.
Last month, Monarch confirmed it had chosen Boeing as its preferred bidder for its fleet replacement, with an order 
for 30 787 Max planes, in a deal worth $3.1bn (£1.83bn).
The Luton-based airline, founded in 1967, is owned by the Swiss-based billionaire Mantegazza family, who 
refinanced it in 2009 and 2011.
Load-Date: August 18, 2014
End of Document
Avolon weighing up options as Chinese fund circles firm
Avolon weighing up options as Chinese fund circles firm
Sunday Business Post
August 17, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 309 words
Body
Irish aircraft leasing firm Avolon will decide in September whether to go ahead with either a market flotation or a 
trade sale after a Chinese investment firm confirmed it had entered into talks about buying the firm.
According to sources, a deal to buy the company, including debt, could be worth in the region of EUR 4 billion to 
EUR 5 billion. However a decision is unlikely to be taken until September.
The company filed papers with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in June as it started the process of 
raising at least $100 million on the New York Stock Exchange. It is understood that the company is now in a    dual-
track process   as the firm's shareholders weigh up their options.
Last Friday a subsidiary of China's AVIC Capital, the country's largest aerospace company, confirmed that it is in 
talks to buy the Dublin-based aircraft-leasing firm. The financing arm of AVIC is negotiating with    relevant parties   
and has begun reviewing Avolon's finances, the firm said in a statement to the Shanghai Stock Exchange. 
However, the firm denied a previous report which linked its parent, sovereign wealth fund China Investment 
Corporation, to a EUR 12 billion deal.
Avolon has raised total capital of $7.5 billion, including a $300 million equity commitment from the Government of 
Singapore Investment Corporation in 2011. The company has a committed fleet of over 200 aircraft and a customer 
base of 47 airlines, including Ryanair.
The company has previously said that by the end of 2014, the private equity firms who were Avolon's launch 
sponsors - Cinven, CVC Capital Partners and Oak Hill Capital Partners - will look to extract the value created in the 
business through either a trade sale or a market flotation.
A number of the firm's directors are also understood to hold a stake in the firm through a partnership based in 
Delaware.
Avolon weighing up options as Chinese fund circles firm
Load-Date: August 25, 2014
End of Document
France 's hidden gem has got the Lot
France's hidden gem has got the Lot
Sunday Business Post
August 17, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIVING
Length: 944 words
Body
**FACTFILE**
**Getting there:**we arrived by car ferry via Cherbourg with Stena Line (stenaline.ie), which sails three times a 
week, year round, from Rosslare. We cruised the Lot with Le Boat (emeraldstar.ie). During the summer months, 
there are various fly-drive options, including indirect flights via Stansted to Brive-la-Gaillarde with Ryanair or direct 
flights to Toulouse (from Dublin four times a week until the end of October) with Aer Lingus (aerlingus.com).
**Where to stay:**Hôtel La Couleuvrine (la-couleuvrine.com) in Sarlat makes for a great starting point to sample the 
atmosphere of this whole region - affordable historic chic in a setting worthy of Old Perigord. For a splash-out 
overlooking the Lot, try the Château de Mercuès (chateaude mercues.com): luxury in a winery-hotel starting at EUR 
330 for room with B&B per night.
**When to go:**either September-October or during truffle season in mid-January.
**What to see:**mist in the morning on the River Lot.
**What to buy:**jars of foie gras, tins of mouth-watering duck confit and bottles of the    black wine   of the Cahors 
region.
**What to avoid:**getting fleeced by local taxis that charge up to EUR 32 for a 16km round trip from Bouzies to the 
Pech Merle Caves (although, even at that, it's still arguably worth the cost).
.....
To many Irish people, the Dordogne is one of those difficult places to point to on a map of France. The 
neighbouring department to the south - the Lot - is even more of a mystery, a place about which not a Lot is known, 
you might say.
France 's hidden gem has got the Lot
Both departments are named after long, serpentine rivers that have carved out ancient verdant valleys through their 
lush lands.
Our journey of discovery began in Sarlat-la-Canéda (often referred to as just Sarlat). It's a medieval wonderland 
that packs the best of Dordogne architecture into one gorgeous town. Its Saturday market ranks among the finest in 
a country where wonderful markets are common currency, and you can lose yourself for hours in its labyrinthine 
streets.
The Hôtel La Couleuvrine is one of the town's gastronomic landmarks - a typical 14th-century edifice sitting snugly 
within the town walls, welcoming guests in its hotel. It serves as one of the headquarters general for the annual 
Truffle Festival every January.
Just an hour's drive south of here, you come across the River Lot. Nothing has visibly changed as you drive from 
one department and one region to another - still the same fairytale buildings and castles with witches' hat stone-
tiled roofs, still the same verdant valleys and twisting secondary roads.
Even the River Lot resembles the River Dordogne in its wide serpentine course that runs through multiple small 
towns, each of irresistible charm.
The difference is that there are fewer tourists. As a result, there's something even more haunting, authentic and 
downright old-fashioned about the place.
From the small river town of Douelle, we took to the water to see the Lot at its best. Cruising tourism is a relatively 
recent phenomenon on the River Lot, with the bulk of cruising enthusiasts opting for the more traditional choices of 
the Canal du Midi further south.
The main attraction here is that you've got something resembling the romantic vision of the Douce France of the 
post-war songs of Charles Trenet. Our first stop for the night was a case in point: the little hamlet of Caïx was as 
dead and disarmingly charming as you could get.
More importantly, it was here that we got our taste of river swimming. Personally, I've always had a fear of 
swimming in rivers or any flowing body of fresh water that might be too cold. The Lot, however, flows so gently that 
you need only do a basic doggy-paddle to swim against its current. And the water, we discovered, is downright 
warm: 22C, according to official figures.
Next morning, we headed back on our tracks upriver in an easterly direction. The lush banks were alive with birds, 
the river shimmering and hopping with fish, while huge birds of prey slowly circled over our heads, the odd noisy 
fight breaking out as they fought over territory.
On past the Château de Mercuès (a superb hotel-winery towering above the river), the town of Cahors is another 
obligatory stop. Located on a huge crook in the Lot that surrounds it almost completely, its landmark feature is its 
huge-towered medieval arched bridge - a defence against English attack, built in 1508.
The equally old centre of Cahors is lively and beguiling. We arrived on the day of the main market, that spills out at 
the feet of St-  tienne's Cathedral on Place Chapou, selling the entire range of fabulous local food, as well as 
clothing, crafts and gifts. The church's imposing exterior features two huge cupolas, lending an air of Byzantium to 
the bazaar.
You can delve even deeper into the region's history by visiting the Pech Merle Caves just upriver at Bouzies. 
Discovered in 1922 by adventurous teenagers, this incredible site represents an enormous time capsule deep 
beneath the earth, where you can see paintings achieved by people 20,000 years ago, risking attack from bears 
and lions to create colourful depictions of the animals around them. The gigantic galleries feature some amazing 
sights, including the rarity of a prehistoric boy's footprint preserved in solidified mud.
France 's hidden gem has got the Lot
Shortly after a section of the Lot where a tow path has been cut into the towering limestone cliffs, the village of St-
Cirq Lapopie looms into view. Perched high above the river, this settlement is impossibly beautiful and was voted 
France's Most Beautiful Village two years ago by the French public.
I thought I knew the Dordogne, but as it turned out, there was a Lot more to be discovered.
Load-Date: August 25, 2014
End of Document
Monarch tunes up for ownership overhaul after strategic review
Monarch tunes up for ownership overhaul after strategic review
City A.M.
August 11, 2014 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 137 words
Byline: MICHAEL BOW
Body
TRAVEL company Monarch Group yesterday said it had launched a strategic review of the business which could 
lead to an overhaul of its ownership structure.
The firm behind Monarch Airlines said it was examining fresh financing arrangements at the group to help it 
compete with low cost budget carriers like EasyJet and Ryanair.
The review is the first major initiative from new chief executive Andrew Swaffield, who was appointed late last 
month, and will be led by Swaffield and nonexecutive chairman Sir Roy McNulty.
"The review covers all areas of the business from operations to ownership and financing, with the objective of 
determining the optimum structure to realise the significant opportunity to build on the respected Monarch brand 
and distinctive offer to its customers in the budget airline market," the company said.
Graphic
 
Monarch Airlines is owned by Monarch Group, which is undergoing a wide-ranging review
Load-Date: August 11, 2014
Monarch tunes up for ownership overhaul after strategic review
End of Document
Market Week Your guide to what's going on
Market Week Your guide to what's going on
Sunday Business Post
August 10, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 383 words
Body
**Green Reit results coming**
Green Reit, one of a number of recently listed real estate investment trusts in the Irish market, will next month 
announce its results for the period from its incorporation to the end of June 2014. The company, in a statement to 
the stock exchange, indicated that its results will be published on September 8. Three months later, on December 
5, will come its first annual general meeting since its launch in July 2013. Last month, the property investment 
company appointed Pat Gunne (above) and Gary McGann to its board as non-executive directors.
...............
**New board member at Origin**
Agri services group Origin Enterprises has appointed Imelda Hurley (above) to its board, with effect from August 1. 
She joined the company last month as chief financial officer designate, as the successor to Brendan Fitzgerald. 
Hurley was previously based in Hong Kong, where she was chief financial officer of PCH International Holdings. In 
a statement, the company said that Hurley does not currently hold any other directorships and does not hold any 
shares in Origin or in its 68.1 per cent shareholder Aryzta.
...............
**Cawley takes a seat at Ryanair**
A former Ryanair deputy chief executive has joined the airline's board. Michael Cawley (above) worked for Ryanair 
for almost two decades and retired in March. He held a number of senior positions, including deputy chief executive 
and chief operating officer. He holds other non-executive directorships, including Paddy Power and Kingspan, and 
is chairman of Failte Ireland. In a statement, the airline welcomed Cawley's decision to accept the invitation to join 
its board and said his ''experience, skills, and in-depth knowledge of the industry will be of great benefit.
Market Week Your guide to what's going on
...............
**Petroceltic reaches agreement**
Irish exploration company Petroceltic has reached an agreement with Samir Abdelly and Abdelly & Associ  ©s 
International Consulting (AAIC) over proceedings relating to its operations in Algeria. On July 5, the company 
issued legal proceedings against Abdelly and AAIC, with a subsequent counterclaim then lodged. Last week, 
Petroceltic said in a statement that it had withdrawn all claims made in the proceedings. Abdelly and AAIC have 
also withdrawn their counterclaims, a company statement said.
Load-Date: August 11, 2014
End of Document
Volume down, value up in ADR trades
Volume down, value up in ADR trades
Sunday Business Post
August 10, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 263 words
Body
By Barry J Whyte
Irish shares got more expensive and less attractive to non-Irish investors in the first half of 2014, according to 
figures compiled by BNY Mellon.
The overall trade in the US depository receipts (ADRs) of Irish firms - a mechanism through which investors can 
buy stocks in foreign companies through their local stock exchanges and currencies - fell in the first six months of 
this year, compared to the same period in 2013.
Overall, 690 million ADR shares were traded for the first half of 2014, compared to 1.25 billion in the first six months 
of 2013.
The value of those shares, however, grew. In the first six months of 2014, the value of ADRs traded was $18.7 
billion, compared to $16.4 billion in the first half of 2013. That's an increase of 13.6 per cent.
Bank of Ireland and Ryanair were among the most attractive stocks for non-Irish investors, according to the figures.
Dealing in Bank of Ireland's ADRs was up in both volume and value terms with $1.36 billion in ADR shares traded 
compared with $754 million this time last year.
Ryanair traded $2.15 billion worth of shares for the first six months of the year - up from $525 million for the same 
period in 2013.
Other Irish-listed companies that operate ADR programmes include CRH, Kerry Group, Glanbia, and Greencore.
Shire Plc - the Irish based pharmaceutical company - was the most actively traded American-listed stock, given its 
ongoing proposed merger with AbbVie.
Volume down, value up in ADR trades
Trades in Shire accounted for nearly 70 per cent of ADR dealing with nearly $13 billion ($12.99 billion) worth of 
shares traded up to June 30.
Load-Date: August 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair extends Manchester winter 2014 schedule
Ryanair extends Manchester winter 2014 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 7, 2014 Thursday 7:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 159 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has launched a new Manchester winter route to/from Shannon as part of an extended 
Manchester winter 2014 schedule.
Body
Ryanair's Manchester 2014 winter schedule will deliver: 5 new routes to Barcelona, Fuerteventura, Gran Canaria, 
Lisbon & Shannon; 24 routes in total; increased frequencies & better schedules to and from Madrid, Riga & Rome; 
over 2.3m Ryanair customers p.a. at Manchester (up 200,000 customers); and over 2,300 jobs sustained at 
Manchester Airport. Ryanair's Maria Macken said: "UK consumers and visitors already choose Ryanair for our low 
fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. Now they can also book their flights on our 
improved website and brand new app, carry a free small second carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our 
recently announced new Family Extra product, and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, 
making Ryanair the ideal choice for families and friends. We also have a new business product coming soon, as 
Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: August 13, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet and Ryanair soar above turbulence with passenger rise
EasyJet and Ryanair soar above turbulence with passenger rise
City A.M.
August 7, 2014 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 155 words
Byline: JOSEPH MILLIS
Body
BUDGET airlines easyJet and Ryanair yesterday reported jumps in passenger numbers for July.
EasyJet enjoyed a 7.7 per cent growth in passenger number for July compared to the previous year -around 6.5m 
compared to 5.976.
The passenger load factor increased by 1.3 percentage points to 92.2 per cent.
The budget airline saw its third quarter revenues to 30 June increase by 8.6 per cent to hit £1.2bn, as passenger 
numbers increased 9.4 per cent to 17.9m in total.
There was also a rise in capacity of 16 per cent at Gatwick after it acquired slots from Flybe.
Ryanair grew traffic by 300,000 to 9.15m, up four per cent from the same period in July 2013. The airline's load 
factor increased from 88 per cent to 91 per cent.
Ryanair's chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said the rise was "thanks to our lower fares and our improving 
customer experience", which included a mobile app, allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag.
Graphic
 
Ryanair's new customer friendly service has helped boost numbers by four per cent
EasyJet and Ryanair soar above turbulence with passenger rise
Load-Date: August 7, 2014
End of Document
Knock Airport's best month ever in July Knock PAX
Knock Airport's best month ever in July; Knock PAX
Business World (Digest)
August 6, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 306 words
Highlight: The month of July has proven to be a record breaking month at Ireland West Airport Knock as the airport 
recorded its busiest month for passenger traffic in the airport's 28-year history.
Body
The month of July has proven to be a record breaking month at Ireland West Airport Knock as the airport recorded 
its busiest month for passenger traffic in the airport's 28-year history.
Over 91,000 passengers used Ireland West Airport Knock in July, surpassing the previous busiest ever month, 
which was August 2012, when 89,500 passengers passed through the airport.
July traffic to/from the UK was up 17pc on July 2013, while passenger traffic to/from mainland and continental 
Europe increased by 18pc, highlighting the airports importance as a gateway for the West of Ireland for important 
tourist generating markets, particularly in mainland Europe. All four of the airports airline partners, Flybe, Aer 
LIngus, Ryanair and Germanwings showed an increase in passenger numbers and higher load factors compared to 
July 2013.
The latest figures also show that Ireland West Airport is on track to record the busiest year in the airports history 
with passenger numbers expected to reach 700,000 for the first time. The Airport now serves 25 International 
destinations and is served by four of Europes biggest airlines. Commenting on the record numbers, Joe Gilmore, 
Managing Director Ireland West Airport, said "We are delighted to have recorded our busiest month in the airports 
history, which is an endorsement for the range of destinations, ease of access and convenience of the airport for 
the people of the region and for those overseas visitors who want to fly directly into the heart of the West of Ireland. 
These passenger figures highlight the importance of the airport for the regions in which we serve and how with 
support from regional stakeholders the airport can continue to grow and develop essential international connectivity 
that will lead to more jobs and prosperity for the people of the West and North West of Ireland".
Load-Date: August 8, 2014
Knock Airport's best month ever in July Knock PAX
End of Document
Ryanair add 300k passengers in July Ryanair PAX
Ryanair add 300k passengers in July; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
August 6, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 69 words
Highlight: Ryanair this morning said that it carried 300,000 more passenger in July than in the same month last 
year, a 4pc increase.
Body
Ryanair this morning said that it carried 300,000 more passenger in July than in the same month last year, a 4pc 
increase.
This brought total passenger numbers up to 9.15 million.
Its load factor, an industry wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, increased by 3pc in the month to 91pc.
The year to the end of July saw Ryanair carry 83 million travellers, a 4pc increase on the same period a year ago.
Load-Date: August 8, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair July Traffic Up 4% - Quick Facts
Ryanair July Traffic Up 4% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
August 6, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 130 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc's (RYA.L, RYAAY) traffic for the month of July 2014 grew by 
4% to 9.15 million customers from last year's 8.84 million customers.
Monthly load factor went up by 3% to 91% from 88% in the same month prior year.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 300,000 to 9.15m customers in July, 
thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our great new website and mobile app, 
allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and PED use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so much 
more than just the lowest fares in every market for our 83m customers."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: August 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair call to cut Dublin Airport queue; Airport Queue
Ryanair call to cut Dublin Airport queue; Airport Queue
Business World (Digest)
August 5, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 201 words
Highlight: Ryanair today called on Dublin's Airport authorities to extend the operating hours of 'self-service' border 
control gates in Dublin Airport's T1 to beyond their current 5pm cut-off.
Body
Ryanair today called on Dublin's Airport authorities to extend the operating hours of 'self-service' border control 
gates in Dublin Airport's T1 to beyond their current 5pm cut-off.
The airline said that its customers have experienced regular evening backlogs in the passport control area as a 
result of the automated service being unavailable beyond 5pm, resulting in long queues for those arriving into T1.
Ryanair called on the DAA and new Minister for Transport and Tourism, Paschal Donohoe, to intervene and extend 
the facilities in the interest of consumers and tourists, particularly during the peak summer season when the airport 
is at its busiest.
"Ryanair is calling on the DAA to extend the operating hours of the self-service passport gates at Dublin Airport's T1 
to eradicate evening backlogs. It's unfair that customers are being subjected to delays at passport control as a 
direct result of the automatic facilities shutting down at 5pm. The DAA and Minister Donohoe should allocate more 
resources to this area and ensure that customers can exit easily and quickly through Dublin Airport, especially 
during the busy summer months," said Ryanair's Robin Kiely. For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 7, 2014
End of Document
A busy week in the markets
A busy week in the markets
Sunday Business Post
August 3, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 447 words
Body
Passengers numbers grow at the new' Ryanair
''We have moved our own net profit forecast for FY15 from EUR 630 million to EUR 649 million, right at the upper 
end of the guided range. Alongside responding to wider market conditions, it is clear that management initiatives on 
customer service, business traffic, booking systems and the continued focus on costs, are delivering at least the 
anticipated improvement in yields, and we believe the risk to the guidance and our forecasts remains on the upside.
*Nomura Securities briefing note*
.........................
**An up and down year for Aer Lingus**
''We are delighted to announce that Aer Lingus' successful business model has delivered a 40 per cent improved 
operating result and a 26 per cent increase in free cash flow in H1 2014, despite the negative effects of lost revenue 
caused by the cabin crew industrial action.
*Christoph Mueller, Aer Lingus chief executive*
''Aer Lingus's transatlantic offering appears to be working. Short-haul is more challenging with a negative booking 
gap of EUR 10 million being carried into the second half of the year due to industrial action.
*Stephen Furlong, Davy*
.........................
**Tullow Oil hit by $400m exploration write-offs**
A busy week in the markets
''All in all, we think this mixed set of results has been priced in following the operational update on 2 July, with the 
share price decreasing by 10 per cent as investors are slightly disappointed in the short term by lower volumes and 
profit. However, we are still of the view that Tullow has a very good portfolio of assets, and its exploration planned 
for Gabon, Kenya and Norway should
provide significant news flow to support a share price recovery over the rest
of 2014.
*VSA Capital briefing note*
..........................
**Diageo faces challenges across a number of regions**
''This year our business has faced macro-economic and market specific challenges that have impacted our top-line 
performance. But we have gained share and expanded margin while continuing to invest in our brands, our markets 
and our people to create a stronger business that will deliver on the long-term growth opportunities of this attractive 
industry.
*Ivan Menezes, chief executive, Diageo*
.........................
**2014 is shaping up to be a strong year for Smurfit Kappa**
''Smurfit Kappa has delivered another set of strong results with 9 per cent year-on-year growth in Ebitda. More 
importantly, the company views current market conditions as supportive of the recently announced containerboard 
price increases. If successfully implemented, these will drive increases in corrugated prices in 2015, providing a 
platform for forecast upgrades.
*Barry Dixon, analyst, Davy*
Load-Date: August 4, 2014
End of Document
From Mueller to Millar? Not a chance, says Ryanair deputy chief
From Mueller to Millar? Not a chance, says Ryanair deputy chief
Sunday Business Post
August 3, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 266 words
Body
Ryanair's deputy chief executive Howard Millar has ruled out any prospect that he will step into Christoph Mueller's 
shoes at Aer Lingus.
Millar, who also serves as Ryanair's chief financial officer, announced in June that he would step down from both 
roles this December.
He plans to take up an as yet undecided new executive role elsewhere, he told The Sunday Business Post in an 
exclusive interview. Mueller is to quit Aer Lingus next May.
   I'm joining the board of Ryanair, so clearly a board member of Ryanair could not be the chief executive of Aer 
Lingus,   Millar said.    Aer Lingus carries nine million passengers a year - we're going to do that in the month of 
August. I don't think it's of any interest to me. Anyway, they'd probably be very suspicious that I'm an inside man or 
a mole, so I don't think it would really work out.  
Millar described Ryanair's three bids to take control of Aer Lingus as    the best thing that never happened  . 
Ryanair could have transformed the former national carrier, he said, but there was a    risk that we might have been 
diverted as a management team and also that our own business would have become contaminated by the whole 
union issue, the pension issue  .
In the interview, Millar said Mueller had done    a reasonable job   but    there are lots of issues   remaining at Aer 
Lingus. He added that government involvement in Aer Lingus had helped create    a dysfunctional board  .
   We're the biggest shareholder but we're not on the board, and we can't be on the board,   he said.    The head of 
the union sits on the board. How can that happen?  
Load-Date: August 4, 2014
From Mueller to Millar? Not a chance, says Ryanair deputy chief
End of Document
The Sunday Interview: Howard Millar
The Sunday Interview: Howard Millar
Sunday Business Post
August 3, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1895 words
Body
CV: Howard Millar
**Role:**chief financial officer and deputy chief executive of Ryanair
**Age:**53
Lives: Clontarf
**Family:**wife Anne and four grown-up children
**Hobbies:**golf, rugby, football
**Favourite Book:**A Tale of Two Cities, Charles Dickens
**Favourite Movie:**Amadeus
.....
The most impressive thing about Ryanair's brand new Google-esque headquarters in Swords in north County 
Dublin is the large field of weeds it overlooks.
Inside the high-tech building, teams of young people run an airline that carries 86 million passengers a year. The 
offices are kitted out with a giant slide, a huge chess board and a mural that screams    Welcome to the Madhouse  
.
Ryanair's deputy chief executive and chief financial officer Howard Millar - who announced recently that he will step 
down in December - recounts visiting other trendy offices to get ideas for the airline's new headquarters.
The Sunday Interview: Howard Millar
   I looked at Paddy Power's building, PayPal, eBay, and quite a few others. We took the best and we adapted. Just 
like we did with the airline. We copied SouthWest in the 1990s, we adapted it, improved it. That's what we're good 
at, we threw in our own bits and pieces to 'Ryanairise' it. That's what we do best,   he says.
Ryanair's previous Dublin Airport headquarters was a    dark, dingy hole  , says Millar, but it did help him control 
headcount.
   You can recruit the guy if you can find space for him,   Howard would tell managers. There was no space and he 
knew it. By contrast, the new building is airy and spacious.
But it is the large field of weeds outside
that truly illustrates the incredible ambition of this rags-to-riches Irish company. The
field is earmarked for a future that will unfold long after Millar has moved on.
   I spent a year negotiating with David Daly of Albany Homes, who owned this site. And my final twist was to get 
him to give me that field for future growth for another office block. Already we are set to grow to 110 million 
passengers,   says Millar, pointing out the window.
As CFO, Millar has shepherded profitability to likely record levels this year, built up a EUR 4.5 billion cash pile, 
financed and purchased enough 737s to satisfy growth needs beyond 2019, led the airline's new website and app 
development and played a central role in driving customer service improvements designed to radically alter the 
airline's image.
   It is important for me that when I go I hand over a clean sheet,   he says.
He outlined these achievements to Michael O'Leary and other senior managers at a recent management meeting.
   I've done all this for you,   he told them,    now don't fuck it up.  
     
Back in 1992, Millar was four years into an agribusiness job in the Middle East and was itching to get back to 
Ireland. Then Ryanair boss Conor Hayes, a former colleague, called him.
   Come back to Ryanair. You'll probably get six months out of it.   Only when Millar arrived in Dublin did Hayes tell 
him the truth:    Oh yeah, by the way, it's a bit of a mess,   he said.
   It was an unbelievable mess,   clarifies Millar.    No financials done in six months, absolute chaos and the thing 
was going out of business. We were losing our shirts,
we had a very bad cost base, we had the wrong aircraft, the wrong routes, you name it, it was wrong. It was a hand-
to-mouth existence.  
Bank of Ireland withdrew its overdraft and the airline was within hours of going bust.
   We couldn't pay a bill to Aer Rianta for catering and they said they were going to park their tugs behind our planes 
so we wouldn't be able to move. We managed to rustle up fifty grand and stave it off another week. But it was 
unbelievable. I put in an accounting system in one weekend working for 30 hours straight. It was a desperate 
situation.  
But the turnaround had begun. It took on extra impetus when 18 months after Millar arrived, Michael O'Leary 
became the airline's chief executive.
   It was a tough transition. The cabin crew were giving out because we wouldn't give people a cup of tea. You can't 
not give Irish people a cup of tea. We nearly had riots. We literally inched forward,   says Millar.
The Sunday Interview: Howard Millar
New Boeing 737s and a new base in Stansted helped, as did fortuitous changes in the aviation sector.
   Nobody understood low fares. They worried that we didn't maintain the aircraft or that it didn't have two wings. But 
suddenly people in the Shires and the Home Counties were telling their friends they had flown with Ryanair or 
EasyJet and it became almost kind of fashionable.  
David Bonderman's Texas Pacific Group bought into the airline in 1996 and it floated on New York's Nasdaq in 
1997.
   I worked seven days a week for at least a year,   Millar recalls.
The IPO transformed the company and it now had money to expand and buy aircraft. O'Leary may have been the 
public face and key strategist but right behind him, calculator in hand, stood Millar.
   I was meeting Boeing in one room and he was in another with Airbus and then we'd switch. We played the good 
cop, bad cop routine,   he says.
     
Michael O'Leary is not the only reason Millar is quitting Ryanair, but he is a big part of it.
A new five-year management share option cycle kicks off this year. Leave now and Millar gets the benefit, 
otherwise he must stay put until he is 58. That's too old to start a new frontline role in an intensive industry like 
aviation, he says.
   I realised that my own working career is finite. Yes, I could easily have probably punched in another five years 
here but I wouldn't have been content doing that. I don't want to be one of those moany old people who say, 'I could 
have been a contender.' And what did you do about it? 'Well, actually I did nothing'.  
As deputy chief executive he has reached the end of the line at Ryanair and knows he will not get the job he really 
wanted.
   I would have liked to have been chief executive. Michael knows that, I know that. That's the way of the world,   he 
says.
   Michael is not going anywhere. I'm in a role where I've done everything possible that I can do and I can't get 
promoted. Michael told me in 1993: 'I'll be going out of here in a year.' The year passed and he said, 'I'll be out of 
here next year.' And I said, 'You know what? The only way you're going out of here is in a pine box.' So every time 
he says, 'I'll be gone in three years,' I just laugh now.
   Michael's just a little bit older than me. I want to do something different. After 23 years you are entitled to change 
your job. I've got to do what I think is best for me and that is to look at doing something different. I don't know yet 
what that might be.  
Working closely with O'Leary for so long meant    rows, disputes, disagreements   were inevitable.
   Part of the challenge of being deputy CEO and CFO is being able to say, 'Look, I don't think that's right, I just 
think you're talking a load of bollocks.' Being a yes man or sycophant is no good to anybody.
   Michael's a very forceful character, not shy and retiring. You've got to be able to go in and mix it and give your 
point of view. He listens to his senior management team but he'll test the rigour of your argument. If you're talking 
nonsense he'll soon punch through that.  
Nevertheless, Millar admits that last year in particular management was    asleep at the wheel   in relation to 
changes in the airline business, ultimately forcing Ryanair to issue two profit warnings. In particular, no one at 
Ryanair saw the significance of Easyjet's move to improve its customer experience and website.
The Sunday Interview: Howard Millar
   We believed that people would walk across broken glass to buy a low fare and that we could get away with asking 
them 25 times to buy travel insurance. We became overly rules focused. 'Your bag must fit into that. If it doesn't fit 
in, that's EUR 50.' And now we're saying, 'It kind of fits... on you go.' So we became caught up in our own rules. We 
were asleep at the wheel. We missed out on the change in this industry, which is constantly evolving. We believed 
we could make people do whatever we liked and they would still buy an airline seat. And we were wrong,   says 
Millar.
One of the problems that critics often say blighted the airline's public image was its chief executive's ability to 
generate controversy.
   He would say himself he hasn't helped with things over time, some of the things he said. But when we were 
spending nothing on advertising and marketing, Michael was unbelievable,   says Millar.
He recounts the infamous day O'Leary kicked off a storm by telling the BBC Ryanair was planning to charge 
passengers for using the toilet.
   We were just going into Victoria and Michael wanted to spend a penny but like two Paddies we had no money 
between us and I had to go over and buy a can of Coke to get 20p change so he could go to the loo. 'Oh, we'll 
charge a pound,' he then told the BBC. He has been the most incredible vehicle for publicity, but we've moved 
beyond that. Myself and [former chief operating officer and fellow deputy chief executive] Michael Cawley told him: 
'You need to step back now, and you need to become presidential as best you can.  
They still    roll him out   for what Millar describes as    Ronaldo moments   if needed, but seeking free publicity is no 
longer a priority.
   We're trying to get away from a brash, aggressive, cheap and nasty image to a more customer-focused, 
customer-friendly type business.  
Last week's financial results, seen as a return to form after 2013's scares, suggest the plan is working.
     
Millar claims he has been too busy to give much thought to life after Ryanair. He has had approaches, some worth 
looking at, some surprising, he says. He didn't want his children growing up abroad as    expat brats   but the 
youngest is now doing his Leaving Cert and so he no longer feels restricted to Ireland. He is also not afraid to look 
beyond the aviation sector. He would love to finally become a chief executive but would also consider an interesting 
CFO role. He is quick to rule out the chief executive post at Aer Lingus, to be vacated by Christoph Mueller next 
year.
   I'm joining the board of Ryanair so clearly a board member of Ryanair could not be the chief executive of Aer 
Lingus. Aer Lingus carries nine million passengers a year. We're going to do that in the month of August. I
don't think it's of any interest to me,   Millar says.    Anyway they'd probably be very suspicious that I'm an inside 
man or a mole so I don't think it would really work out.  
Of course, Millar and his Ryanair colleagues came close to running Aer Lingus via a series of takeover attempts - 
another    what if?   in an otherwise sparkling career.
   It's the best thing that never happened. We failed miserably three times. But we had a vision and a plan for Aer 
Lingus to double its size and create jobs. We had a two-brand strategy, like Proctor and Gamble or Unilever 
whereby Aer Lingus would be the premium Daz or Ariel. Two different brands within the same stable. What's 
happened since then? Nothing. It's gone backwards. We're growing 4 per cent this year, that's five million 
passengers, that's half the size of Aer Lingus in one year.  
Nevertheless, there was a risk to the plan for Ryanair, says Millar. Ryanair's management team may have been 
diverted and the business could have been    polluted   by Aer Lingus's pension and industrial relations problems.
The Sunday Interview: Howard Millar
   Sometimes,   he says,    these things are for the best.  
Load-Date: August 4, 2014
End of Document
GuestLogix to create 50 new jobs
GuestLogix to create 50 new jobs
Sunday Business Post
August 3, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: TECHNOLOGY
Length: 321 words
Body
Canadian travel software firm GuestLogix is creating 50 new jobs in Dublin as part of a EUR 375,000 investment.
The company, which has its global headquarters in Toronto, is currently scouting locations in Dublin for its new 
office. The new facility will be primarily focussed on customer care however the business will also carry out some 
engineering and research and development functions in Dublin.
Brett Proud, chief executive of GuestLogix, was in Dublin last week to look at potential locations. ''We need to be in 
Dublin, he told The Sunday Business Post.
''Timezone wise it's a great spot to be in for global customer support. We love the labour pool here and Dublin has 
become a mini travel technology hub..
GuestLogix currently provides software to 46 per cent of the world's airlines including Aer Lingus and Ryanair. The 
move to Dublin is designed to increase the company's presence in the European market and aid in its expansion 
into the Asia-Pacific market.
The firm is receiving assistance from the IDA in finding office space and sourcing staff but Proud said GuestLogix 
would have come to Dublin without their assistance. The presence of travel software firms such as AirBnB in Dublin 
made GuestLogix prioritise the city as a location for expansion.
''We have not asked the IDA for cash. It's not that the IDA attracted us, we made a decision to come here but they 
are providing us assistance in other areas, said Proud.
''They are already helping us on the recruitment side and in finding the right location to set up.
Proud said the move to Dublin was also influenced by the characteristics it shares with Moncton on Canada's 
Atlantic coast. The company opened an office there due to the quality of universities in the city and its readily 
available talent pool.
GuestLogix to create 50 new jobs
He said that while the cities were different, this similarity along with the existing presence of travel tech firms in the 
city made Dublin a logical choice.
Load-Date: August 4, 2014
End of Document
Monarch to cut jobs and focus on short-haul flights
Monarch to cut jobs and focus on short-haul flights
AirFinance Journal
August 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 248 words
Highlight: British leisure and charter carrier wants to compete with Ryanair and easyJet.
Body
Monarch Airlines is planning to cull nearly one-third of its workforce - around 1,000 jobs - as part of a major 
strategic review which may lead to the end of its long-haul flights.
Andrew Swaffield, who took over as chief executive at the end of July after joining Monarch as managing director at 
the start of April, says: "We're on a trajectory of changing from a charter airline to a scheduled European low-cost 
carrier. We need to operate as efficiently as a low-cost carrier," according to Travel Weekly.
He added that Monarch hopes to achieve this goal within 12 to 18 months, saying: "EasyJet and Ryanair 
demonstrate you can make money in a sustainable way. But to do that, you have to be competitive."
Monarch is retiring three Boeing 757s this autumn and will have replaced its whole fleet in the next five years.
In July, it confirmed a £1.75 billion ($2.93 billion) order for 30 new Boeing 737 aircraft to be delivered by 2020, 
according to BBC News. It is likely to mean a reduction in the size of its fleet from 42 to 30, although the airline 
does have an option with Boeing to buy a further 15 aircraft.
A statement released by Monarch today said: "The company has previously stated that the new management team 
is conducting a strategic review of the group's businesses, including in relation to their operations, ownership and 
financing. 
"That review is on-going and further announcements will be made upon its conclusion or as otherwise appropriate."
Michael.Allen@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: September 22, 2014
Monarch to cut jobs and focus on short-haul flights
End of Document
Lufthansa CEO hints at fleet expansion for new budget long-haul routes
Lufthansa CEO hints at fleet expansion for new budget long-haul routes
AirFinance Journal
August 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 125 words
Highlight: Carsten Spohr says 787s and A350s could be added if expansion is successful.
Body
Lufthansa's new CEO Carsten Spohr has spoken about his potential fleet choice for the German flag carrier's 
proposed budget long-haul service.
He told the Financial Times that, rather than wait for more fuel-efficient, long-range passenger aircraft such as 
A350s or 787s, his carrier may use seven 767s or A330s.
Spohr added that he wants the budget long-haul service to be in the air by next autumn.
"If it works we'll be rolling it over into A350s or 787s and we probably won't stop at seven planes either," he said.
In June, German magazine Der Spiegel reported that Lufthansa was considering creating a new low-cost platform 
within its Eurowings regional carrier to compete against budget rivals such as Ryanair and easyJet.
Michael.Allen@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: September 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair chief negotiates possible takeover of Cyprus Airways
Ryanair chief negotiates possible takeover of Cyprus Airways
AirFinance Journal
August 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 142 words
Highlight: Michael O'Leary is meeting the Cypriot government for talks.
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary will head to Cyprus on Thursday for talks with the Cypriot government on a 
possible takeover of Cyprus Airways. 
He made the announcement at a press conference at the Westbury Hotel in Dublin this morning. 
The move comes despite O'Leary telling a press conference last month that Ryanair was "not particularly 
interested" in acquiring Cyprus Airways because of its "huge legacy issues". 
In July, Ryanair was one of 20 parties who signed a non-binding expression of interest in state-controlled Cyprus 
Airways.
Under his company's proposal, Cypriot Airways would retain its brand and operate under a separate air operator's 
certificate to Ryanair, he said.
He added that the Irish airline will propose it could boost passenger numbers to 3 million per year from 600,000.
Cyprus Airways fleet consists of six A320-200s.
Load-Date: September 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair hail German screenscraper case Ryanair Case
Ryanair hail German screenscraper case; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
July 31, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 320 words
Highlight: Ryanair today welcomed the Regional Court of Hamburg's (Landgericht Hamburg) interim injunction 
against the screenscraper website, eDreams.
Body
Ryanair today welcomed the Regional Court of Hamburg's (Landgericht Hamburg) interim injunction against the 
screenscraper website, eDreams.
Ryanair said that the court's action prevents "unlawful and misleading advertising" in connection with the sale of 
Ryanair flights on the German eDreams website.
The Court has prohibited eDreams from advertising claims that it offers the guaranteed best price on all flights on 
their German website (edreams.de). The Court ruled that eDreams cannot offer the best deals on Ryanair flights as 
it is levying an extra fee on top of Ryanair's fares and as a result ruled that eDreams cannot advertise with a price 
guarantee on booked flights.
Ryanair has been engaged in several legal cases against screenscraper websites across Europe to prevent 
Ryanair customers from being subjected to extra charges and to ensure Ryanair has appropriate contact details to 
communicate with its customers. Many of these websites continue to cause problems for Ryanair customers and/or 
fail/refuse to pass on vital information to both passengers and Ryanair regarding issues such as flight changes, web 
check-in, special needs assistance and contact details, which has resulted in missed flights and repeated problems 
for customers. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair welcomes the ruling of the Regional Court of Hamburg which 
prevents eDreams from unlawfully advertising misleading claims regarding the sale of Ryanair flights. This is a 
highly important victory for consumers, particularly those who have been subjected to additional fees at the hands 
of screenscraper websites such as eDreams. Ryanair will continue to pursue these screenscrapers to prevent 
Europe's consumers from being misled over price and booking conditions. We would again urge customers to book 
directly on the Ryanair.com website to guarantee the lowest fares and best customer service." For more visit: 
www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair hail German screenscraper case Ryanair Case
Load-Date: August 5, 2014
End of Document
Exit vote to affect stocks, saysstudy
Exit vote to affect stocks, saysstudy
Financial Times (London, England)
July 31, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 453 words
Byline: Andrew Bolger
Body
A vote for Scottish independence in September could have a modestly negative impact on the UK stock market, 
according to a report from Barclays.
The bank says independence would present several companies with significant challenges, ranging from the likely 
currency regime to pensions, labour costs, taxation and procurement, even though Scotland only accounts for 
about 2 per cent of sales by companies in the FTSE 350.
On balance, it says a Yes vote could have significant consequences for sectors such as banks, oil, defence, 
beverage, transport, business services, asset management, insurance, utility, property and industrials.
Scotch whisky is Scotland's second-largest export industry after oil and gas, with more than 90 per cent sold 
outside the home market. The analysts say that, given their dominance in whisky, drinks firms Diageo and Pernod 
Ricard are the stocks with most to lose from independence.
Simon Hales, a Barclays analyst, says: "In our view, the biggest risk to the Scotch industry is related to any 
potential exit from the EU.
"If the EU were not to admit an independent Scotland, this could put the product's geographic indication status 
under threat as well as putting at risk the tariff-free trading it enjoys in the EU member states. It may also increase 
the supply of counterfeit product."
Exit vote to affect stocks, saysstudy
Barclays analysts say other stocks with potential for an adverse reaction to a Yes vote include BG Group, Wood 
Group, RBS, Lloyds, BAE Systems, Babcock, SSE, Aggreko, Weir Group and Standard Life.
However, companies that could benefit from Scottish independence include easyJet, Ryanair, and IAG, as a result 
of the Scottish government's commitment to halve air passenger duty.
The report says London-based property companies such as Derwent, Great Portland Estates, and Berkeley Group, 
could also benefit from any weakening of sterling or migration towards London.
The analysts say commentary in recent months has centred on uncertainty concerning what the fiscal terms for oil 
and gas production are likely to be and which assets and regions are impacted by a new maritime border.
"While we feel this uncertainty may hinder investment in the near term, in the longer term it is clear hydrocarbon 
development will be a key part of Scottish fiscal revenues - whichever country's revenues that may be - and, 
indeed, a new independent Scotland may have conditions that ultimately encourage activity," says the report.
"Therefore, while any uncertainty may be a short- term concern, in the medium to longer term it is unlikely to 
change our p-ositive investment view on either the oil service or oil producer sectors.
For the oil services, potentially most affected are Subsea 7, Wood Group, Hunting and Technip."
Load-Date: July 30, 2014
End of Document
Consumer body crackdown on dodgy goods Dodgy goods
Consumer body crackdown on dodgy goods; Dodgy goods
Business World (Digest)
July 29, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 588 words
Highlight: Over 26,000 unsafe products ranging from fake cosmetics to dangerous toys were destroyed while 496 
product complaints cases were investigated in a busy year for the National Consumer Agency.
Body
Over 26,000 unsafe products ranging from fake cosmetics to dangerous toys were destroyed while 496 product 
complaints cases were investigated in a busy year for the National Consumer Agency.
Its annual report today shows that 115 Enforcement Actions were taken against businesses in breach of consumer 
law while there were more than 56,000 consumer contacts handled and more than 1.15 million visits to the 
Agency's consumer website.
Two Prosecutions were secured from traders in relation the sale of clocked cars and compensation orders were 
also secured from the courts for the affected consumers.
Two Compliance Notices issued to Ryanair and Aer Lingus for failing to provide an email address to facilitate 
contact from customers. Six Undertakings secured from domestic waste operators that their consumer contracts 
would be amended to remove terms considered unfair. One further Undertaking secured in relation to the sale of a 
clocked car, the annual report shows. Two Compliance Notices issued to Ryanair and Aer Lingus for failing to 
provide an email address to facilitate contact from customers. Six Undertakings secured from domestic waste 
operators that their consumer contracts would be amended to remove terms considered unfair. One further 
Undertaking secured in relation to the sale of a clocked car. The Agency also ordered the destruction of more than 
26,000 unsafe products before they reached the Irish market and processed more than 2,300 unsafe product 
notifications received via the Europe-wide rapid alert system - RAPEX. Of these 122 were found to be relevant to 
the Irish marketplace and required further action by the NCA Product Safety team. Chief Executive of the National 
Consumer Agency, Karen O'Leary, said, "A strong statutory body which champions and protects the rights of 
consumers and takes action has never been more important. Our work in 2013 focused on enforcing consumer law 
across a range of sectors. We undertook successful prosecutions against two traders for the sale of a clocked car. 
Through a series of undertakings targeting firms in the waste sector we secured extensive changes to terms in 
Consumer body crackdown on dodgy goods Dodgy goods
consumers' contracts which we considered unfair. We tackled breaches in consumer law in the retail sector through 
the use of our enforcement tools resulting in positive change for consumers. We also intervened on behalf of 
consumers when we believed traders were acting unfairly." "Empowering consumers with information to help them 
assert their consumer rights and make informed decisions underpinned all our work throughout the year. In 2013, 
our helpline handled more than 56,000 consumer contacts. Visits to our website increased 34pc, hitting more than 
1.15 million visits in 2013. On average, we responded to 160 contacts a day from consumers seeking information 
and guidance. The level of contacts we receive highlights that across some sectors companies are failing to deliver 
effective customer service when an issue arises," she said. Ms. O'Leary said that issues prompting consumers to 
contact the National Consumer Agency during 2013 included problems with goods or services; contracts or 
invoices/billing. "The number of consumers contacting us on ecommerce or distance selling issues is also 
increasing as more and more people buy online. Our enforcement actions against Aer Lingus and Ryanair for failing 
to provide an email contact address for consumers is an example of our enforcement work in this increasingly 
important channel," she said. For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 31, 2014
End of Document
Fall in financials brings London's market down LONDON REPORT
Fall in financials brings London's market down; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
July 29, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 361 words
Body
THE FTSE 100 yesterday ended down after weak US housing data discouraged investors in America and Europe 
during a data-light European day.
The blue chip index lost 0.1 per cent to close at 6,788.07. Earlier in the day it had traded as high as 6,809.61, but 
moved lower together with other markets after pending home sales in the US fell in June for the first time in four 
months.
Shares in Aberdeen Asset Manage-ment led the fallers and slumped 5.3 per cent to 435p after the company 
reported a decline in third-quarter assets under management.
Pharmacy giant Glaxosmithkline slipped 0.6 per cent to 1,414.50, after the chief executive told the Financial Times 
that the company was open to spinning off its consumer healthcare business.
On a more upbeat note, Reckitt Benckiser Group gained 2.7 per cent to 5,205p, after the company said it would 
pursue a spinoff of its pharmaceutical unit to focus more on its core consumer health and hygiene business. 
Additionally, Reckitt Benckiser reported a seven per cent fall in second-quarter sales.
Shares in EASYJET climbed 0.9 per cent to 1,344p after Citigroup upgraded the budget airline to buy from neutral.
Ryanair Holdings gained 2.63 per cent to (EURO)7.03p after Europe's largest low-cost airline increased its profit 
forecast for the current financial year.
British Sky Broadcasting clawed back some of the losses it made on Friday as it announced a deal to buy Italian 
and German pay-TV operators from 21st Century Fox. The broadcaster rose 3.43 per cent to 904.50p. Lloyds 
Banking Group was also in the spotlight after US and UK authorities imposed roughly $370m (£218m) of fines on 
Fall in financials brings London's market down LONDON REPORT
the bank for attempting to rig the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and other widely used interest-rate 
benchmarks.
Lloyds shares closed marginally higher (0.04 per cent), at 74.84p.
The fact that Lloyds would be fined had been widely flagged, but the ongoing regulatory pressure on Lloyds and 
other banks still dragged down the shares of its part-nationalised rival, the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS.L).
RBS, which had surged 10.8 per cent on Friday after posting surprise second-quarter profits, closed down 3.4 per 
cent at 352p.
Load-Date: July 29, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair
Ryanair
Financial Times (London, England)
July 29, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 305 words
Body
The airline that liked to say no has been replaced with a friendly hello. Ryanair pleasantly surprised the market 
yesterday with better-than-expected first-quarter earnings . Even better, it raised by 6 per cent its forecasts for 
earnings for the year to next March, to roughly EUR635m. Better pricing - without any increase in summer capacity 
- meant that operating margins rose 800 basis points on last year. However, management warned that more 
capacity would land late this year in an effort to attract frequent-flyer businesspeople.
But the main concern for the share price is not capacity but oil. Relatively steady fuel prices have lifted sentiment 
towards the airline sector over the past two years. Airline shares tend to outperform when oil prices are falling, and 
vice versa. The sector moved together this spring when oil prices spiked. At Ryanair, fuel accounts for nearly half of 
operating costs - which it carefully hedges. The carrier does this rather well, it turns out: fuel costs were down more 
than 2 per cent in a quarter when fuel prices rose over 3 per cent.
This ability to cope with rising fuel costs is impressive. But does it justify Ryanair's large valuation premium? A 
price-to-earnings ratio of roughly 13 times 2016 earnings may seem sensible. But Ryanair trades at twice the level 
of European flag carriers, and a quarter higher than easyJet. That looks excessive, especially as it has to cope with 
all that new capacity later this year. Meanwhile, smaller players such as Flybe and Monarch are also trying harder 
on customer service.
With oil prices cruising at altitude, and flag carriers in Europe still trying to cut capacity, the lower-cost carriers are 
aiming to bolster revenues by filling the gap with their own planes. Ryanair's premium suggests it can fly faster than 
its peers. Not forever.
Ryanair
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair lifts outlook after boost from late Easter; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair lifts outlook after boost from late Easter; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
July 29, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 12
Length: 267 words
Byline: Mark Odell
Body
Ryanair's overhaul of its brand showed signs of paying off yesterday, as the Dublin-based airline reported a strong 
first quarter and lifted its full-year profit forecasts, while cautioning against "any irrational -exuberance".
Europe's largest low-cost carrier by revenues said late Easter holidays this year had helped to almost triple net 
profits to EUR197m in the three months to the end of June, up from EUR78m a year earlier. In 2013, Easter 
holidays fell in the airline's fourth quarter.
The group said revenues rose 11 per cent to just under EUR1.5bn, on a 4 per cent rise in passenger numbers, 
helped by a 9 per cent increase in the average fare.
Ryanair said it would pay a special dividend of EUR520m in its fiscal fourth quarter as part of its commitment last 
year to return EUR1bn to shareholders. It has already completed a EUR482m share buyback programme.
Despite the boost from the late Easter holidays, the results suggest the airline is benefiting from the overhaul of its 
brand and website in response to a relatively poor performance in its last financial year to the end of March, which 
saw it record its first fall in earnings in five years.
Ryanair, notorious for conservative guidance, said it was lifting its full-year net profit forecasts from a range of 
EUR580m-EUR620m to EUR620m-EUR650m. Top of the range is still below Reuters' EUR655m consensus 
forecast.
Ryanair lifts outlook after boost from late Easter; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair said it planned to "aggressively raise capacity" by 8 per cent in the winter schedule, which starts in 
October, as it begins to take delivery of the first of the 180 new Boeing 737s it has on order.
Mark Odell 
See Lex
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair holidays on the rise but bikinis are out; TUESDAY 29 JULY 2014 12 www.cityam.com/the-capitalist 
THECAPITALIST Got A Story? Email thecapitalist@cityam.co....
Ryanair holidays on the rise but bikinis are out; TUESDAY 29 JULY 2014 12 
www.cityam.com/the-capitalist THECAPITALIST Got A Story? Email 
thecapitalist@cityam.com EDITED BY GABRIELLA GRIFFITH
City A.M.
July 29, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 243 words
Byline: GABRIELLA GRIFFITH
Body
MICHAEL "What part of 'no refund' don't you understand" O'Leary took himself away from the job of airline 
spokesperson last year, after he announced the company would be replacing its notoriously unhelpful customer 
service strategy with something of a charm offensive.
The secret weapon of said charm offensive was revealed as new chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs and we 
suspect he has had his first coup. Getting rid of the Ryanair "cabin crew stunners" charity calendar.
At yesterday's first quarter results conference, Ryanair said it would have a "pause and think" about the calendar, in 
a bid to find something less, er, trashy, to raise money. Jacobs joked they might create a calendar featuring the 
management team in bikinis instead. It wasn't too long ago the company was defending the boobstastic publication, 
claiming "there's nothing demeaning about our people volunteering to raise money." No, nothing at all, especially if 
they've got a nice pair, eh? O'Leary admitted yesterday he wished he'd morphed into his new, cuddlier self earlier 
(well, the 152 per cent increase in Q1 profits agrees with him). The outspoken boss likened his old attitude to 
Millwall FC, with its famous chant "no one likes us, we don't care".
Perhaps these lyrics from O'Leary's favourite team Man City and its anthem Blue Moon, are better suited now: "I 
heard someone whisper please adore me. And when I looked the moon had turned to gold." That's 152 per cent 
more gold.
Ryanair holidays on the rise but bikinis are out; TUESDAY 29 JULY 2014 12 www.cityam.com/the-capitalist 
THECAPITALIST Got A Story? Email thecapitalist@cityam.co....
Graphic
 
Michael O'Leary said Ryanair was once like Millwall
Load-Date: July 29, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's charm offensive pays off with 152 per cent profit rise
Ryanair's charm offensive pays off with 152 per cent profit rise
City A.M.
July 29, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 175 words
Byline: GABRIELLA GRIFFITH
Body
A STRONG Easter performance and its new focus on customer service have been highlighted by Ryanair as some 
of the reasons it enjoyed an 11 per cent rise in revenue and a four per cent rise in passenger numbers in the first 
quarter.
The buoyant results come after a string of less successful announcements, with the airline issuing two profit 
warnings in autumn last year.
Ryanair reported a 152 per cent increase in net profits to (EURO)197m (£155.8m), up from (EURO)78m on last 
year.
However, chief executive Michael O'Leary warned the large increase was due in part to Easter falling in Q1, when it 
fell in Q2 in 2013.
O'Leary is confident the airline's decision to give its customer service a dramatic makeover, which included 
introducing allocated seating and allowing a second piece of hand luggage, has had its desired effect and the 
analysts agree, with Cantor issuing a "buy" status. "Strong numbers and evidence that Ryanair's shift in strategy to 
improve customer service and focus on more primary airports is working," said Robin Byde at Cantor.
Graphic
 
Ryanair 's charm offensive pays off with 152 per cent profit rise
Michael O'Leary's decision to soften-up has paid off with bumper first quarter results
LAURA LEAN/CITY AM
Load-Date: July 29, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair boss not interested in Cyprus; Ryanair Cyprus
Ryanair boss not interested in Cyprus; Ryanair Cyprus
Business World (Digest)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 276 words
Highlight: Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary said today that the airline was not particularly interested in acquiring 
troubled Cypriot carrier Cyprus Airways, which he said had huge legacy issues.
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary said today that the airline was not particularly interested in acquiring troubled Cypriot 
carrier Cyprus Airways, which he said had huge legacy issues.
Ryanair was among nearly 20 companies which last week submitted a non-binding expression of interest in Cyprus 
Airways, now controlled by the Cypriot government. The process is a preliminary step towards any eventual binding 
offer by any bidder.
"We are not particularly interested in Cyprus Airways which has huge legacy issues: pension scheme, historic 
losses (and) it looks like it may have to repay about 100 million in legal state aid," O'Leary told reporters in London, 
after Ryanair released its quarterly results.
Ryanair had submitted an expression of interest in the carrier because the Cypriot government had asked them to, 
he added. Cyprus Airways has struggled to survive against cheaper competitors and has been loss-making for 
years despite several attempts at a turnaround. The airline has recently resorted to selling assets to stay afloat, 
including its slots at London's Heathrow airport. It is also under scrutiny by the European Commission. Brussels is 
investigating terms of a 31.3 million euro capital increase in early 2013, and a 73 million euro rescue package by 
the Cypriot state in 2012 to establish whether it violated state aid rules. O'Leary said Ryanair was keen to develop 
its business in Cyprus, and was looking at how to develop markets in the Middle East, using Cyprus as a base. 
"We're happy to work with them on all of that," said O'Leary, who has discussed expanding Cypriot tourism with the 
government. For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 30, 2014
Ryanair boss not interested in Cyprus; Ryanair Cyprus
End of Document
European shares dip early; EU Shares
European shares dip early; EU Shares
Business World (Digest)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 312 words
Highlight: European stocks reversed early gains and dipped on Monday morning, adding to the previous session's 
losses, with Germany's Wincor Nixdorf sinking after it slashed its sales forecast.
Body
European stocks reversed early gains and dipped on Monday morning, adding to the previous session's losses, 
with Germany's Wincor Nixdorf sinking after it slashed its sales forecast.
Blaming unfavourable developments in key emerging markets, the provider of hardware and software for banks and 
retailers said it expects flat full year sales, sending its stock down as much as 11 percent to its lowest level in more 
than a year and a half.
Ryanair bucked the trend, surging 5 percent after Europe's biggest budget airline lifted its outlook following a sharp 
rise in quarterly net income, coming in the wake of profit warnings by rivals Air France-KLM and Lufthansa .
France's Danone was also among the top gainers, up 1.9 percent following a report saying that the food and 
beverage major is in talks to sell its medical nutrition business to U.S. group Hospira in a deal valuing the unit at 
about dollar 5 billion, or 3.7 billion euros. At 0818 GMT, the FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was 
down 0.1 percent at 1,371.37 points, while the euro zone's blue-chip Euro STOXX 50 index was down 0.03 percent 
at 3,174.16 points. The FTSEurofirst 300 lost 0.7 percent on Friday, hurt by lower-than-expected results from luxury 
goods maker LVMH , data showing German business sentiment dropping to its lowest level in nine months in July, 
as well as violence in Ukraine and Gaza. Investors' mood was helped, however, by data showing a sharp rise in 
profits earned by Chinese industrial firms, up 17.9 percent in June from a year earlier, fuelling expectations that the 
China's economy is powering through its recent soft patch as the government uses targeted stimulus measures to 
support growth. Around Europe, UK's FTSE 100 index was up 0.03 percent, Germany's DAX index down 0.2 
percent, and France's CAC 40 up 0.3 percent. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 30, 2014
European shares dip early; EU Shares
End of Document
Ryanair lifts profit guidance Ryanair
Ryanair lifts profit guidance; Ryanair
Business World (Digest)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 366 words
Highlight: Ryanair boosted its annual profit guidance on Monday as rivals cuts theirs after the Irish airline booked a 
better-than-expected first quarter in which net income rose 152 percent from a year earlier.
Body
Ryanair boosted its annual profit guidance on Monday as rivals cuts theirs after the Irish airline booked a better-
than-expected first quarter in which net income rose 152 percent from a year earlier.
Europe's biggest budget airline raised its forecast for full-year profit to between 620 million euros and 650 million 
euros in the year to March 2015, up from a range of 580 million euros to 620 million euros previously.
The rise comes in the wake of profit warnings by rivals Air France-KLM and Lufthansa and after Ryanair called an 
end to decades of famously austere service with the promotion of a new customer-friendly image from late last 
year.
"We've made a lot of service improvements over the last six or seven months and we're seeing the benefits in terms 
of rising profitability," Ryanair's Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar told Reuters in a telephone interview. Ryanair 
said strong forward bookings from a strategy aimed at tempting passengers to book their flights earlier increased its 
confidence for the year ahead and would see traffic grow by 3 percent in the first half and fares increase by 6 
percent subject to late bookings. That followed a 9 percent first-quarter rise in fares that helped Ryanair earn 197 
million euros after tax, better than a forecast of 157 million euros in a poll of analysts conducted by the company 
and the 78 million euros it made a year earlier. Ryanair, which said its first-quarter figures were somewhat distorted 
as Easter did not fall in the same period last year, expects a much softer pricing environment in the second half of 
its financial year as competitors cut fares, partly in response to Ryanair's strong forward bookings. It said it planned 
to aggressively raise capacity this winter by 8 percent to take advantage of growth discounts and build out 
business-friendly routes. Ryanair shares rose in advance of the results after Chief Executive Michael O'Leary told 
Reuters he did not plan to cut profit forecasts for the current financial year despite warnings from its rivals. Shares 
closed on Friday at 6.85 euros, 3 percent higher than mid-July when O'Leary gave the assurance on guidance. 
(Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair lifts profit guidance Ryanair
Load-Date: July 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair shares surge 4pc on forecast; Ryanair Shares
Ryanair shares surge 4pc on forecast; Ryanair Shares
Business World (Digest)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 614 words
Highlight: Shares in Ryanair surged by 4pc or 28c to E7.125 after it boosted its annual profit guidance after rivals 
cut theirs and as it more than doubled its first-quarter profit citing a boost from its drive to improve customer service.
Body
Shares in Ryanair surged by 4pc or 28c to E7.125 after it boosted its annual profit guidance after rivals cut theirs 
and as it more than doubled its first-quarter profit citing a boost from its drive to improve customer service.
Europe's biggest budget airline last year vowed to improve its service, adding seat allocations, easing restrictions 
on hand luggage and cutting penalty charges.
"We've made a lot of service improvements over the last six or seven months and we're seeing the benefits in terms 
of rising profitability," Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Ryanair raised its profit forecast for the year to March 2015 to between 620 million (dollar 832 million) and 650 
million euros, up from a range of 580 million to 620 million euros seen previously. The strong numbers are evidence 
that Ryanair's shift in strategy to improve customer service and focus on more primary airports is working, Cantor 
Fitzgerald analyst Robin Byde said in a note. Ryanair's improved outlook contrasts with warnings by Lufthansa and 
Air France-KLM, and comes nine months after a profit warning from Ryanair which flagged last year's decline in 
profits, its first in five years. Millar said paying to choose a seat was particularly popular with passengers and made 
up for the reduced charges elsewhere. Ancillary revenues - charges for extras like carry-on baggage and on-board 
refreshments - rose four percent in the first quarter in line with growth in passenger numbers. Ryanair said strong 
forward bookings from a strategy aimed at tempting passengers to book their flights earlier increased its confidence 
for the year ahead. It said it expected traffic growth of 3 percent in the first half and fares to increase by 6 percent 
subject to late bookings. That followed a 9 percent first-quarter rise in fares that helped Ryanair earn 197 million 
euros after tax, better than a forecast of 157 million euros in a poll of analysts conducted by the company. The 
result marked a jump of 152 percent from a year earlier. Ryanair shares, which rose in advance of the results after 
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary told Reuters he did not plan to cut profit forecasts, were up 4.12 percent higher at 
7.12 euros by 0804 GMT. Ryanair, which plans to pay a 520 million euro dividend to shareholders in the fourth 
Ryanair shares surge 4pc on forecast; Ryanair Shares
quarter, included a note of caution in its guidance, warning against any "irrational exuberance" in what it said 
continues to be a difficult economic environment. It expects a much softer pricing environment in the second half of 
its financial year as competitors cut fares and said it planned to raise winter capacity by 8 percent to take advantage 
of growth discounts and build business-friendly routes. Analyst said increased capacity by budget airlines such as 
Ryanair, which will take on the first of 180 new Boeing jets in September, spells further bad news for carriers such 
as Lufthansa which last month lowered its profit targets for the next two years. "What we've seen out of Ryanair and 
easyJet shows that the European market is still quite healthy. For the flag carriers, excess capacity coming on from 
the low-cost airlines is the last thing they want to see," said David Holohan, an analyst at Merrion Stockbrokers. Air 
France-KLM last week unveiled plans to recapture market share from low-cost rivals, a move analysts said would 
be difficult to achieve and something Millar dismissed as unlikely. "Air France have talked about this for many years 
and anything they've done has been a spectacular failure," Ryanair's finance chief said. "We don't think they're 
going to go through with any of this." For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 30, 2014
End of Document
UK Market Marginally Higher
UK Market Marginally Higher
RTT News (United States)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 386 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market is trading marginally higher on Monday, as investors weighed corporate report cards, 
amid lingering geo-political tensions.
On a day of light economic news, Italy's business confidence unexpectedly fell in July, as new order expectations 
declined, results of a survey conducted by the statistical office Istat showed.
U.K. house prices increased at a slower rate in June, data from the Land Registry showed. House prices rose 6.4 
percent year-over-year in June following the 6.7 percent increase in May.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is adding 0.16 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.10 percent.
The FTSE 100 index is currently rising 0.08 percent.
Reckitt Benckiser is gaining 2.7 percent. The consumer goods giant reported higher first-half profit, adding that it 
would spin off its pharmaceutical unit Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals.
Ryanair is gaining more than 4 percent. The company posted increased profit and lifted its outlook.
Trinity Mirror is surging 12 percent. The publisher of Daily Mirror and People reported Monday higher profit in its 
first half, above the company's expectations, amid improving revenue trends and growth in digital users.
Aberdeen Asset Management, which reported lower assets under management, is falling 3 percent.
Royal Bank of Scotland and Glencore are losing 2.7 percent and 2 percent, respectively.
Mothercare is declining close to 7 percent. US- based maternity apparel retailer Destination Maternity Corp. 
withdrew its takeover offer for the UK-based mother and baby apparel retailer.
Other major markets in the region are trading mixed.
The Asian stocks ended mixed, as weak cues from the U.S. and European markets offset growing investor 
confidence in China's economy.
UK Market Marginally Higher
In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks finished lower on Friday 
as disappointing earnings from Amazon and Visa's disappointing outlook added to ongoing worries over geopolitical 
unrest in Ukraine and the Middle East.
Crude for September delivery is falling $0.59 to $101.50 per barrel while August gold is gaining $1.7 to $1305.0 a 
troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
European Markets Mixed, Ryanair Climbs
European Markets Mixed, Ryanair Climbs
RTT News (United States)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 555 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are trading mixed on Monday, as investors weighed corporate report cards, 
amid lingering geo-political tensions.
On a day of light economic news, Italy's business confidence unexpectedly fell in July, as new order expectations 
declined, results of a survey conducted by the statistical office Istat showed.
U.K. house prices increased at a slower rate in June, data from the Land Registry showed. House prices rose 6.4 
percent year-over-year in June following the 6.7 percent increase in May.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is adding 0.21 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.13 percent.
The French CAC 40 and the UK's FTSE 100 are modestly higher, while the German DAX is down 0.2 percent and 
Switzerland's SMI is falling 0.5 percent.
In Frankfurt, Merck and Bayer are notably higher. Linde and ThyssenKrupp are making moderate gains.
Daimler, BMW and Volkswagen are declining between 2.4 percent and 1.2 percent. Volkswagen's Audi announced 
price cut for spare parts in China, effective August 1.
Wincor Nixdorf cut its revenue forecast for the year. The stock is declining 8 percent.
In Paris, Danone is gaining 1.2 percent amid reports that it is in talks to sell its medical nutrition unit to U.S. 
pharmaceutical and medication delivery company Hospira, Inc. in a cash and stock deal that could value the unit at 
nearly $5 billion.
Publicis Groupe is losing close to 2 percent.
GDF Suez and Veolia Environment are gaining moderately.
In London, Reckitt Benckiser is gaining 2.7 percent. The consumer goods giant reported higher first-half profit, 
adding that it would spin off its pharmaceutical unit Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals.
Ryanair is gaining more than 4 percent. The company posted increased profit and lifted its outlook.
European Markets Mixed, Ryanair Climbs
Trinity Mirror is surging 12 percent. The publisher of Daily Mirror and People reported Monday higher profit in its 
first half, above the company's expectations, amid improving revenue trends and growth in digital users.
Aberdeen Asset Management, which reported lower assets under management, is falling 3 percent.
Royal Bank of Scotland and Glencore are losing 2.7 percent and 2 percent, respectively.
Mothercare is declining close to 7 percent. US- based maternity apparel retailer Destination Maternity Corp. 
withdrew its takeover offer for the UK-based mother and baby apparel retailer.
Dutch package delivery company TNT Express reported a narrower loss for the second quarter, but a decline in 
revenues. The stock is down over 5 percent in Amsterdam.
Arcadis, which reported revenue decline for the second quarter, is declining 4 percent in Amsterdam.
The Asian stocks ended mixed, as weak cues from the U.S. and European markets offset growing investor 
confidence in China's economy.
In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks finished lower on Friday 
as disappointing earnings from Amazon and Visa's disappointing outlook added to ongoing worries over geopolitical 
unrest in Ukraine and the Middle East.
Crude for September delivery is falling $0.62 to $101.48 per barrel while August gold is gaining $0.7 to $1304.0 a 
troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Q1 Profit Surges On Strong Easter; Cautiously Lifts Full-year View
Ryanair Q1 Profit Surges On Strong Easter; Cautiously Lifts Full-year View
RTT News (United States)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 378 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA.L, RYAAY) Monday said first-quarter profit increased 
significantly from the previous year, supported by a very strong Easter. The company also boosted its full-year profit 
forecast, adding that it is dependent on the final outturn for second-half yields.
"However we would strongly caution both analysts and investors against any irrational exuberance in what 
continues to be a difficult economic environment, with some company-specific challenges in H2,'' Ryanair's CEO 
Michael O'Leary said.
Profit attributable to equityholders of the parent climbed to 196.8 million euros ($264.3 million) from 78.1 million 
euros in the prior year. The airline noted that the results are somewhat distorted by the absence of Easter in the 
prior year period.
Profit before tax was 223.6 million euros compared with 88.5 million euros last year.
Total operating revenues from continuing operations improved 11 percent to 1.496 billion euros from 1.342 billion 
euros in the prior year.
Traffic grew 4 percent to 24.3 million as load factor rose 4 percentage points to 86 percent.
Average fare rose 9 percent, boosted by a strong Easter period. Unit costs fell 2 percent, and rose 1 percent when 
fuel is excluded.
Based on the first-quarter results and the strong forward bookings, Ryanair said it is on track to deliver a strong first 
half, in which traffic is expected to grow 3 percent, and fares are estimated to rise 6 percent subject to late booking 
fares in August and September.
Ryanair now expects full year traffic to grow 5 percent to 86 million. Based on this increased traffic and higher load 
factors, along with a slightly improved performance on unit costs, the firm cautiously raised its full-year profit after 
tax guidance to a range of 620 million euros to 650 million euros from the previous range 580 million euros to 620 
million euros.
The airline again cautioned that this guidance, which is about a 21 percent rise over last year's net profit, is heavily 
reliant upon the final outturn for second-half yields over which it currently has zero visibility.
Ryanair Q1 Profit Surges On Strong Easter; Cautiously Lifts Full-year View
RYA.L settled up 0.1 percent on Friday at 6.85 pence.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Q1 Profit Rises On Strong Easter - Quick Facts
Ryanair Q1 Profit Rises On Strong Easter - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 312 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) and Subsidiaries reported first-quarter pretax profit of 223.6 
million euros, compared to 88.5 million euros, prior year. Profit attributable to equity holders of parent was 196.8 
million euros, compared to 78.1 million euros. Earnings per share, in euro cent, was 14.18 compared to 5.40. The 
company cautioned that the result was distorted by the timing of a very strong Easter in the first quarter with no 
holiday period in the prior year comparable.
Total operating revenues from continuing operations increased to 1.50 billion euros from 1.34 billion euros, last 
year. Total operating revenues increased by 11% primarily due to a 14% increase in scheduled revenues, driven by 
the 9% increase in average fare, due to the timing of Easter in this quarter and its absence in the prior year 
comparative along with a strong increase in load factor. Ancillary revenue was up 4%, in line with the growth in 
passenger numbers. Total revenue per passenger rose by 7%, primarily due to the strong growth in scheduled 
revenues.
Traffic grew to 24.3 million as load factors rose by 4% points to 86%.
The company said it is on track to deliver a strong first-half, during which traffic will grow by 3%, and fares will rise 
by 6% subject to late booking fares in Aug. and Sept.
Ryanair now expects full year traffic to grow by 5% to 86 million. The company said it is cautiously raising full year 
profit after tax guidance to a range of 620 million euros to 650 million euros, from the previous range of 580 million 
euros to 620 million euros. "This guidance, which is about a 21% rise over last year's net profit, is heavily, reliant 
upon the final outturn for H2 yields over which we currently have zero visibility," the company said.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Slump Despite Positive Earnings
European Stocks Slump Despite Positive Earnings
RTT News (United States)
July 28, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 323 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks tumbled in the final hour of Monday's session, as traders expressed caution ahead 
of the upcoming Federal Reserve interest rate announcement.
Tensions in the Middle East and Ukraine along with worries about the euro zone economy overshadowed some 
upbeat corporate earnings.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks slipped 0.21 percent, having spent most of the session in 
positive territory.
The French CAC 40 was up 0.23 percent and the UK's FTSE 100 was down 0.11, while the German DAX lost 0.67 
percent and Switzerland's SMI fell 0.62 percent.
Daimler, BMW and Volkswagen were among the automakers posting significant losses today. Volkswagen's Audi 
announced price cut for spare parts in China, effective August 1.
Wincor Nixdorf cut its revenue forecast for the year. The stock dropped 5 percent.
In Paris, Danone edged up 0.7 percent amid reports that it is in talks to sell its medical nutrition unit to U.S. 
pharmaceutical and medication delivery company Hospira, Inc. in a cash and stock deal that could value the unit at 
nearly $5 billion.
In London, Reckitt Benckiser gained 3 percent. The consumer goods giant reported higher first-half profit, adding 
that it would spin off its pharmaceutical unit Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals.
Ryanair added 4 percent. The company posted increased profit and lifted its outlook.
Trinity Mirror picked up 7 percent. The publisher of Daily Mirror and People reported Monday higher profit in its first 
half, above the company's expectations, amid improving revenue trends and growth in digital users.
Novartis said the European Commission had approved Alcon's Simbrinza treatment for glaucoma. Shares fell 0.8 
percent.
Swatch Group plans to equip its Swatch Touch line of plastic watches with wearable tech to monitor personal 
fitness. The stock was flat.
European Stocks Slump Despite Positive Earnings
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
Macquarie may sell its stake in Bristol Airport
Macquarie may sell its stake in Bristol Airport
City A.M.
July 28, 2014 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 278 words
Byline: THOMAS FITZGERALD
Body
BRISTOL Airport, the ninth-busiest airport in the UK, may be changing ownership again soon as the Australian 
bank Macquarie Group is believed to be looking to sell its 50 per cent stake in the airport.
Macquarie first bought Bristol Airport from owners FirstGroup and Bristol City Council in 2001 for £198m, together 
with Cintra, part of the Spanish Ferrovial group, before Macquarie also bought Ferrovial's stake in 2006.
However, the large Australian bank is believed to now be considered selling its stake, currently owned by 
Macquarie's European Infrastructure Fund. It could be worth between £200m to £250m, according to the Sunday 
Times.
The possible sale may attract interest from the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, which already owns a 49 per cent 
stake in Bristol Airport, and also has a stake in Birmingham Airport, the High Speed 1 rail network running between 
London and the Channel Tunnel, and Camelot Group, the operator of the National Lottery in the UK . Previously the 
Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan had already acquired an increased stake in Bristol Airport from Macquarie for 
£128m, in 2009 , and had also bought its stake in Birmingham Airport from Macquarie for £420m in 2007.
The remaining one per cent stake in Bristol Airport is currently owned by Sydney Airport.
Bristol Airport saw its passenger numbers increase to 6.1m in 2013, a 3.4 per cent increase on passenger numbers 
in 2012, and is the only UK airport in the UK's top ten airports to have passenger growth each year since the end of 
2009.
The airport, founded in 1930, currently offers direct flights to over 100 destinations, with airlines including Aer 
Lingus, EasyJet, Ryanair and KLM.
Macquarie may sell its stake in Bristol Airport
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
The Week: Seven days under the spotlight
The Week: Seven days under the spotlight
Sunday Business Post
July 27, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 435 words
Body
Newsmaker: Reed Hastings, chief executive, Netflix
Netflix was founded 17 years ago, in 1997. In its infancy, Reed Hastings' company was a website from which you 
could order DVDs to rent. They arrived in red envelopes in the post, one at a time, for a subscription fee. By 2000, 
however, Netflix had just 300,000 subscribers and relied on postmen. It was losing money. Then Hastings digitised.
Fast forward to 2014, and the streaming service says it has 48 million subscribers in more than 40 countries. This 
year, Hastings achieved billionaire status for the first time.
Last week, the company revealed that profits more than doubled in the second quarter of this year (to some $71 
million), and sales climbed by more than a fifth. The US subscriber base is made up of some 35 million people. In 
Ireland there are approximately 200,000 subscribers. Creators of original series and documentaries for Netflix 
earned 31 Emmy nominations this year.
Hastings graduated from Bowdoin, a liberal arts college in Maine, in 1983. He worked as a high school maths 
teacher in Swaziland before earning a Master's in computer science from Stanford. He founded a tech company 
with a very 1990s name, Pure Software, in 1991. He took it public in 1995, then sold it two years later. Netflix 
IPO'ed in 2002 and posted its first profit in 2003.
Hastings has said he doesn't believe Netflix needs to be acquired to compete against the likes of Amazon, Google 
and Apple. If recent progress is anything to go by, he might be right.
.....
**Good week: Facebook**
The Week: Seven days under the spotlight
Revenue up to $2.91 billion for the second quarter of this year, from $1.81 billion in 2013. Profit more than doubled. 
Stock jumped in extended trading to $75.45, above Facebook's record close and double its IPO price. Shares are 
up 30 per cent this year.
To its detractors and begrudgers, the company has more or less said: any questions?
.....
**Bad week: Ryanair**
Zut alors! The airline was ordered by the European Commission to repay EUR 10 million in illegal state aid in 
respect of its French business. The aid had been extended to support marketing (including, perhaps, the ad 
published in France last year that promoted flights to Dublin with images of Cork). Of course, Ryanair is going to 
appeal the decision.
.....
**Tweet of the week**
Farhad Manjoo, @fmanjoo:
Seems to me the future of the iPad is to shrink it to 5.5 inches, double the price, and sell through carriers. Also call 
it an iPhone.
Manjoo, a technology correspondent for the New York Times, muses on the fate of the iPad, the lagging sales of 
which lowered the tone of Apple's third-quarter earnings call last week
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
Just before you pack your suitcase . . .
Just before you pack your suitcase . . .
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 6
Length: 937 words
Byline: Merryn Somerset Webb
Body
If you follow me on Twitter or any other social media you will see a change in my posts in the next few weeks. 
There will nothing more on interest rates and cyclically adjusted price/earnings ratios and very little on investment 
trust premiums and discounts.
Instead there will be pictures of various UK beaches and the odd tip about what to serve with mackerel sashimi if 
your village shop doesn't stock wasabi. I'm taking four weeks off from this column. But before I go I want you to 
know that I have been thinking a bit more about your holidays.
I wrote last week about the awful excess waiver services that we all tend to get from car hire companies and their 
middlemen. This generated a veritable avalanche of correspondence and I want to pass on the useful information 
that came in from readers as a result.
If you visit www.insurance4carhire.com you can buy annual multi-trip excess insurance for a mere £39.99 for 
Europe and £49.99 if you are likely to travel further afield. Better still, this includes all the things that most waivers 
do not - tyres, wheel rims, the undercarriage, windows and even mistakes with fuel. Go to 
www.icarhireinsurance.com and Europe is a little cheaper and £35.99 while worldwide is a little more (£59.99).
Readers assure me that both are perfectly straightforward to claim on so there seems little reason not to sign up. 
The other option, suggested by a few more readers, is to get a Platinum American Express card instead. These 
come with automatic excess insurance. I like this idea, but it isn't for everyone. The card costs £450 a year so you 
Just before you pack your suitcase . . .
had better be sure of getting another £400 worth of value out of its other services: worldwide travel insurance, 
Rewards points, a concierge service and for some people at least, the warm glow of holding a high-status card.
So that's that taken care of. Next up, luggage. If there is anything more boring than standing in car hire queues it is 
standing in airline bag drop-off queues. When I lived in Japan 20 years ago, no one lugged suitcases around. 
Instead, we dropped them off at our local convenience store and had them sent ahead of us, using a service called 
Takkyubin . In my many conversations with readers about car insurance I find that you can now do this in the UK. 
Go to www.sendmybag.com and you can have a bag picked up in the UK three days in advance and delivered to 
France for £29. That might not save you money (unless you are flying Ryanair) but assuming you don't have to 
make special plans to be at home for the pick-up, it might save you some of the boring bit of the airport. 
Luggagedelivery.com does the same for £34.
If you get both of the above sorted you might find yourself with rather more reading time than usual. If so, then do 
pick up a copy of Felix Dennis's How to Get Rich . Dennis, the publisher of Maxim and The Week, died earlier this 
year . He was very rich indeed (worth around £500m) and the distillation of his thoughts on how the rest of us can 
get rich too is well worth reading for its honesty and clarity. In a nutshell? You don't have to be clever, but you do 
have be canny and not share anything; you'll need to have a "sliver of ice" inside you and be capable of being quite 
nasty.
If you want to follow the theme of not particularly nice men making a mint, you could move on to Ian Fraser's 
impressive new book Shredded: Inside RBS, the Bank that Broke Britain . Fred Goodwin, the bank's chief executive 
during the go-go years, had some "decidedly odd behavioural characteristics" reports Mr Fraser. He was 
"deliberately confrontational"; "had a habit of verbally tearing people apart"; and "bordered on the psychotic". The 
book is worth reading for the bitching alone but the detail on the crisis is a nice bonus. Goodwin made a lot of 
money, of course: he left RBS with a lump sum of £5m, all his past bonuses and a pension of "£6,586 a week".
If you are already Felix Dennis rich, or have what it takes to become thus, you should steel yourself for Thomas 
Piketty's Capital in the Twenty First Century . This is long, boring and much more bought than read. Feel free to 
drop it in the pool around lunchtime on day two. But if you haven't yet, you should at least skim it. The general 
theme is well-known: the rich are getting richer; the distribution of wealth is far too unequal; and the best way to sort 
the problem out is to introduce a global wealth tax.
The first two clauses may be true and a problem; they may be true and temporary, a result of the redistribution 
effects of quantitative easing; or they may be no more than partially true. That depends on how you interpret a lot of 
statistics. But the key point here is that most people, including almost all politicians, now believe them both to be 
true. That means a wealth tax is inevitable . You might as well come back from holiday with a sense of just why that 
is.
Finally, if you want to read what I think will be a good rebuff of the idea that the rich usually just get richer, you might 
join me in one of my own summer books. It was a favourite of City grandee Siegmund Warburg's too: 
Buddenbrooks: The Decline of a Family . Thomas Mann's first novel, it was published in 1901 and describes the 
collapse (financial and otherwise) of a once hugely successful merchant family. It will leave us with the not 
particularly happy reminder that, wealth tax or not, once the member with the sliver of ice dies, it's just as hard for 
families to stay rich as it is for them to get rich in the first place.
 Merryn Somerset Webb is editor-in-chief of MoneyWeek. The views expressed are personal. Email:  . Twitter: 
@MerrynSW
Load-Date: July 25, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet profit forecasts fall short of expectations; TRAVEL & LEISURE
EasyJet profit forecasts fall short of expectations; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
July 25, 2014 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 424 words
Byline: Jane Wild and Claer Barrett
Body
EasyJet shares slipped yesterday after the budget airline's forecasts for full-year profit failed to match predictions.
The low-cost carrier said it expected to grow full-year pre-tax profit 14 per cent to between £545m and £570m, 
assuming there was no significant disruption from tensions in Israel, Egypt and Russia.
On Wednesday, it cancelled its twice-daily flights to Tel Aviv in light of the Gaza conflict that has affected airlines 
flying into Israel, but it said yesterday it would resume flights to the Israeli city from today.
EasyJet 's profit forecast is slightly below the analyst consensus of £572m, although up from £478m last year. The 
company is making an allowance of £10m-£15m for any repercussions from the conflict.
"EasyJet's first full-year profit before tax guidance for September 2014 was a little disappointing. It was less than 
the market had hoped for but the market was braced for worse," said Gerald Khoo, an analyst at Liberum.
Shares in easyJet fell as much as 7 per cent in London trading before stabilising to close at £13.33, a fall of 5 per 
cent.
Airlines have been under greater pressure as competition from low-cost carriers rises, with operators such as 
Ryanair and Norwegian Air Shuttle adding seats.
EasyJet profit forecasts fall short of expectations; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Traditional full-service airlines such as Germany's Lufthansa have signalled their intention to compete against the 
low-cost carriers by setting up their own low-cost divisions .
In addition, easyJet has been growing its capacity, which was up 6.8 per cent compared with the same period last 
year, driven by a 16 per cent increase at its Gatwick base after it took slots from regional airline Flybe. That put 
pressure on its yields.
"We are facing a less benign capacity environment," said Carolyn McCall, chief executive.
EasyJet has been pursuing a strategy of securing more business passengers, who pay more overall, and has been 
building its presence across Europe, looking to gain more passengers particularly in countries such as France and 
Italy.
The airline increased revenue per seat by 2.7 per cent to £63.09 at constant currency, flew 9.4 per cent more 
passengers and got its aircraft 2.2 per cent fuller, with a load factor of 90.4 per cent.
Costs per seat increased 1 per cent at constant currency excluding the impact of fuel, driven by higher airport 
charges, maintenance and leasing costs, the company said in its thirdquarter trading update.
Ms McCall said: "EasyJet has again delivered a solid performance in the quarter, carrying 17.9m passengers and 
increasing revenue by 8.6 per cent to £1,240m."
Load-Date: July 24, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair winter boost for Shannon Airport; Ryanair Shannon
Ryanair winter boost for Shannon Airport; Ryanair Shannon
Business World (Digest)
July 24, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 226 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport has today welcomed Ryanair's announcement that it is to strengthen its winter 
schedule with the addition of further capacity from the end of October.
Body
Shannon Airport has today welcomed Ryanair's announcement that it is to strengthen its winter schedule with the 
addition of further capacity from the end of October.
The airline announced today that it is to add a daily Manchester service, replacing a three times weekly Liverpool 
service, and a weekly Kaunas (Lithuania) flight, as well as extra flights on Stansted, to its winter schedule (starting 
end of October).
This will bring the total number of Ryanair services from Shannon to 11 this winter - six more than the 2013/2014 
winter season. The new routes operated by Ryanair from Shannon this winter are Paris, Berlin, Fuerteventura, 
Warsaw, Krakow, Manchester and Kaunas. These are in addition to their existing services to be Gatwick, 
Lanzarote, Stansted and Wroclaw.
Speaking at the King John's Castle visitor attraction today where the announcement was made, Shannon Airport 
CEO Neil Pakey said, "We welcome this further commitment by Ryanair to our upcoming winter schedule, which 
includes an excellent mix of inbound and outbound opportunities for passengers. We are currently in the middle of a 
very busy summer season, which has led to a 15pc overall increase in passenger numbers in the first six months of 
the year. Having extra capacity this winter very much strengthens our hand for the off-peak season." For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet sees annual profit rise EasyJet profit
EasyJet sees annual profit rise; EasyJet profit
Business World (Digest)
July 24, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 251 words
Highlight: Low-cost airline EasyJet said it would grow annual profit by at least 14 percent assuming no further 
significant disruption over the next two months, putting it on track to meet analyst expectations.
Body
Low-cost airline easyJet said it would grow annual profit by at least 14 percent assuming no further significant 
disruption over the next two months, putting it on track to meet analyst expectations.
The company forecast that pretax profits for the 12 months to the end of September would be in the range of 545 
million pounds (dollar 928 million) to 570 million pounds and the range included the impact from situations in Israel, 
Egypt and Moscow.
Analyst forecasts expect easyJet to report pretax profit of 569 million pounds for the current financial year according 
to Thomson Reuters data.
The airline's low fare model has helped it and low-cost rival Ryanair weather the impact of an increasingly 
competitive European shorthaul market, while higher cost carriers have struggled. Air France-KLM, Europe's 
second-largest traditional network carrier warned earlier this month that its 2014 profit could be as much as 12 
percent lower than previously predicted, mainly due to overcapacity and resulting weak prices. Lufthansa last month 
cut back its profit targets for the next two years, citing competition with low-cost rivals as one of the factors. Calling 
its third quarter performance solid, easyJet said it grew revenue by 8.6 percent to 1.2 billion pounds in the period, 
having added capacity of 6.8 percent. Shares in easyJet, which have fallen 17 percent over the last three months, 
closed at 1,403 pence on Wednesday. (dollar 1 = 0.5874 British Pounds) (Reuters) For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
EasyJet sees annual profit rise EasyJet profit
End of Document
EU SLAPS RYANAIR WITH FINE OVER FRENCH AID
EU SLAPS RYANAIR WITH FINE OVER FRENCH AID
City A.M.
July 24, 2014 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 58 words
Body
RYANAIR faces having to repay (EURO)9.6m (£7.6m) in French state aid, after the European Commission found 
the airline had gained "an undue advantage" thanks to the money. The repayments relate to operating at three 
regional French airports, Angouleme, Nimes and Pau Pyrénées. Ryanair said it had instructed its lawyers to appeal 
against these rulings.
Load-Date: July 24, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair boss says may buy Cyprus Air Ryanair Cyprus
Ryanair boss says may buy Cyprus Air; Ryanair Cyprus
Business World (Digest)
July 23, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 256 words
Highlight: Ryanair will probably submit an expression of interest in troubled Cyprus Airways which is up for sale, 
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said.
Body
Ryanair will probably submit an expression of interest in troubled Cyprus Airways which is up for sale, Chief 
Executive Michael O'Leary said.
The Cypriot government in mid-July invited non-binding expressions of interest in its shares or assets in Cyprus 
Airways, a state-controlled airline which has posted heavy losses for years.
The deadline for submissions is July 23, and requires a non-binding expression of interest to consider a potential 
binding offer.
"We probably will make some expression of interest in Cyprus Airways," O'Leary told reporters in Nicosia in 
response to a question. "...We want to see if we could help the government come up with some rescue package 
even though it might be too late." The Cypriot airline has been selling assets to keep afloat, including slots at 
London's Heathrow airport. The state owns 93 percent of the airline. O'Leary said he would be meeting with Cypriot 
tourism and finance officials, where Ryanair would raise concerns over high fees charged by Cypriot airports."We 
would like to grow more, but the impediment are the high costs," he said, adding that a high cost base had seen 
Cyprus lose half a million passengers over a five-year period since 2008. "The place is stagnating," he said. 
Charges at Cyprus's two airports are double that of an airport in Berlin and are among the highest in Europe, 
Ryanair executives said. O'Leary was in Cyprus to launch its 2014 winter schedule. The airline flies to eight 
European destinations from Paphos airport. For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
Ryanair boss says may buy Cyprus Air Ryanair Cyprus
End of Document
Ryanair has to pay back E10m state aid Ryanair Case
Ryanair has to pay back E10m state aid; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
July 23, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 419 words
Highlight: EU state aid regulators have ordered Ryanair to pay back to France about E10 million in illegal state aid 
received for operating at three small regional airports.
Body
EU state aid regulators have ordered Ryanair to pay back to France about E10 million in illegal state aid received 
for operating at three small regional airports.
The European Commission said the French support, which consisted of contractual rebates and airport and 
marketing deals, gave the world's biggest budget airline an unfair advantage.
The EU competition watchdog said Ryanair would have to pay back about 6.4 million euros related to aid received 
for operating at Nimes Airport, the subject of an Air France complaint.
Ryanair will also have to return E2.4 million in illegal aid connected to Pau Pyrenees Airport and about E868,000 
related to Angouleme Airport. In a statement today, Ryanair said it welcomed the EU Commission's confirmation 
that Ryanair's airport agreements at Niederrhein Airport comply with the State aid rules (Market Economy Investor 
Principle). This finding is consistent with the EU Commission's and EU Court's previous rulings that Ryanair's 
airport agreements with Aarhus, Bratislava, Charleroi, Marseille, Berlin Schonefeld and Tampere airports also 
comply with EU State aid rules, the airline said. Ryanair said it also noted the EU Commission's decisions 
concerning Pau (ceased operations in March 2011) and Angouleme (ceased operations in October 2009) airports, 
and Nimes airport where Ryanair currently operates 4 routes. "All of Ryanair's airport arrangements comply with the 
EU State aid rules and Ryanair has therefore instructed its lawyers to appeal these rulings to the extent they 
erroneously allege otherwise," the Irish airline said. Ryanair's Director of Legal and Regulatory Affairs, Juliusz 
Komorek said: "Today's decisions confirm that Ryanair's airport agreements at Niederrhein Airport comply with the 
EU State aid rules (Market Economy Investor Principle). Following the closure of this case and the earlier six 
positive decisions at Aarhus, Bratislava, Charleroi, Marseille, Berlin Schonefeld and Tampere airports, we will 
immediately appeal the decisions in Pau, Angouleme and Nimes cases where the EU Commission mistakenly 
suggested that the airports' agreements with Ryanair did not fully comply with the EU State aid rules." "Ryanair has 
Ryanair has to pay back E10m state aid Ryanair Case
to date carried 86.5m passengers at the 7 airports where our commercial arrangements have been confirmed by 
the EU Commission and the EU Court to comply with EU law, compared to just 3.4m passengers at the airports 
where the Commission today suggested that the airport agreements did not comply with State aid rules."
Load-Date: July 28, 2014
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Boeing reclaims capacity edge with 737 Eleven seats is now the difference in the lucrative heart of 
the narrowbody market.
ANALYSIS: Boeing reclaims capacity edge with 737; Eleven seats is now the 
difference in the lucrative heart of the narrowbody market.
Flight International
July 22, 2014
Copyright 2014 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL
Length: 580 words
Body
Eleven seats is now the difference in the lucrative heart of the narrowbody market.
Ten days after Airbus unveiled a 189-seat A320neo, Boeing struck back with a plan to add a 200-seat version of the 
737 Max 8.
The move by Airbus was intended to match the baseline version of the 737 Max 8, which is limited to 189 seats due 
to its exit capacity. As Boeing often notes, the 737 Max 8 enjoys an 2.24m (88in) advantage over the A320neo in 
fuselage length, leaving Airbus little if any room to raise the seat count even higher.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary, one of Boeing's biggest 737 customers, was not present at the show, yet 
he seems largely responsible for Boeing's decision to offer a 200-seater. For several years, the low-cost carrier has 
agitated for Boeing to raise the seat count on the 737-800 to 199 seats, which is the maximum accommodation 
allowed before a fifth flight attendant must be added.
Boeing has not yet announced any customers for the 200-seater, nor has it settled on the final branding (despite a 
confusing exchange between reporters and Conner during a media briefing). But Boeing expects that the new 
variant will appeal to the growing field of low-cost and ultra-low-cost carriers, which prize density above all in the 
cabin.
 It's certainly a big enough market to go for it for us," says Conner.
Only a year ago, the size of the market had not impressed Boeing enough to come through on O'Leary's demands. 
Airbus's move to add nine seats to the A320neo clearly motivated a response from Boeing, but competitive forces 
were only factor.
Indeed, Boeing has become steadily bolder as the company becomes more comfortable with the design and 
performance predictions for the 737 Max.
ANALYSIS: Boeing reclaims capacity edge with 737 Eleven seats is now the difference in the lucrative heart of 
the narrowbody market.
It must be remembered that Boeing launched the re-engining project in August 2011. The 787 finally entered 
service two months later, and Boeing was still in no mood to take on anything that seemed risky.
In the past year, however, there have been signs that Boeing is regaining a bit of its old swagger while still being 
careful to limit risky  moonshot" development projects.
The 737 Max has reflected Boeing's more confident mood. A year ago, Boeing accelerated the entry-into-service 
milestone by three months to the third quarter of 2017. More recently, Boeing executives hinted that the delivery 
schedule could be advanced even further. The aircraft's predicted performance has also improved, with specific fuel 
consumption rising by 1.5 percentage points.
So it follows that the airframer's position on the 200-seat 737 Max has evolved. A year ago, Conner answered all 
questions about a 199-seat Max by repeating a line that Boeing was focused on delivering the 189-seat version 
first, and only then would entertain even minor variants. Twelve months later, the company feels more confident 
about directly and swiftly responding to the 189-seat A320neo.
 We got a little bit more comfortable about where we were and where we are," Conner says.  It was a matter of 
comfort and it was a matter of whether or not the customer base really showed a lot of interesting in that airplane."
It was never a question of whether the technology was available. Boeing introduced a mid-cabin exit door on the 
707. In 2006, the company unveiled the mid-cabin exit complex on the 737-900, which allows seating capacity on 
that larger variant to increase from 189 to 215. The same exit door will be installed on the 737 Max 9, and now is 
being brought forward as an option on the 737 Max 8.
Load-Date: October 13, 2014
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Boeing reclaims capacity edge with 737 Eleven seats is now the difference in the lucrative heart of 
the narrowbody market.
ANALYSIS: Boeing reclaims capacity edge with 737; Eleven seats is now the 
difference in the lucrative heart of the narrowbody market.
Flight International
July 22, 2014
Copyright 2014 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL
Length: 580 words
Body
Eleven seats is now the difference in the lucrative heart of the narrowbody market.
Ten days after Airbus unveiled a 189-seat A320neo, Boeing struck back with a plan to add a 200-seat version of the 
737 Max 8.
The move by Airbus was intended to match the baseline version of the 737 Max 8, which is limited to 189 seats due 
to its exit capacity. As Boeing often notes, the 737 Max 8 enjoys an 2.24m (88in) advantage over the A320neo in 
fuselage length, leaving Airbus little if any room to raise the seat count even higher.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary, one of Boeing’s biggest 737 customers, was not present at the show, yet 
he seems largely responsible for Boeing’s decision to offer a 200-seater. For several years, the low-cost carrier has 
agitated for Boeing to raise the seat count on the 737-800 to 199 seats, which is the maximum accommodation 
allowed before a fifth flight attendant must be added.
Boeing has not yet announced any customers for the 200-seater, nor has it settled on the final branding (despite a 
confusing exchange between reporters and Conner during a media briefing). But Boeing expects that the new 
variant will appeal to the growing field of low-cost and ultra-low-cost carriers, which prize density above all in the 
cabin.
“It’s certainly a big enough market to go for it for us,” says Conner.
Only a year ago, the size of the market had not impressed Boeing enough to come through on O’Leary’s demands. 
Airbus’s move to add nine seats to the A320neo clearly motivated a response from Boeing, but competitive forces 
were only factor.
Indeed, Boeing has become steadily bolder as the company becomes more comfortable with the design and 
performance predictions for the 737 Max.
ANALYSIS: Boeing reclaims capacity edge with 737 Eleven seats is now the difference in the lucrative heart of 
the narrowbody market.
It must be remembered that Boeing launched the re-engining project in August 2011. The 787 finally entered 
service two months later, and Boeing was still in no mood to take on anything that seemed risky.
In the past year, however, there have been signs that Boeing is regaining a bit of its old swagger while still being 
careful to limit risky “moonshot” development projects.
The 737 Max has reflected Boeing’s more confident mood. A year ago, Boeing accelerated the entry-into-service 
milestone by three months to the third quarter of 2017. More recently, Boeing executives hinted that the delivery 
schedule could be advanced even further. The aircraft’s predicted performance has also improved, with specific fuel 
consumption rising by 1.5 percentage points.
So it follows that the airframer’s position on the 200-seat 737 Max has evolved. A year ago, Conner answered all 
questions about a 199-seat Max by repeating a line that Boeing was focused on delivering the 189-seat version 
first, and only then would entertain even minor variants. Twelve months later, the company feels more confident 
about directly and swiftly responding to the 189-seat A320neo.
“We got a little bit more comfortable about where we were and where we are,” Conner says. “It was a matter of 
comfort and it was a matter of whether or not the customer base really showed a lot of interesting in that airplane.”
It was never a question of whether the technology was available. Boeing introduced a mid-cabin exit door on the 
707. In 2006, the company unveiled the mid-cabin exit complex on the 737-900, which allows seating capacity on 
that larger variant to increase from 189 to 215. The same exit door will be installed on the 737 Max 9, and now is 
being brought forward as an option on the 737 Max 8.
Load-Date: July 25, 2014
End of Document
TDs order OPW to cut EUR 1.6m costs of banking inquiry
TDs order OPW to cut EUR 1.6m costs of banking inquiry
Sunday Business Post
July 20, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 549 words
Body
The banking inquiry has ordered officials to cut a projected EUR 1.6 million bill for refurbishing rooms and 
upgrading computer systems before public hearings begin.
*The Sunday Business Post*understands that there was considerable anger in Leinster House about the budget for 
the work presented by the Office of Public Works (OPW).
It included a EUR 700,000 spend on upgrading vacant offices in the Department of Agriculture's headquarters 
beside Leinster House for 50 banking inquiry support staff.
Leinster House sources complained that the OPW    had form   in coming up with over-expensive projects in 
Leinster House, with one saying that they    were not the Ryanair of refurbishment  .
The most recent example includes the EUR 1.3 million Dáil shop, known as    An Siopa  , which closed down a year 
ago because it was not financially viable. It still remains empty.
Labour TD Ciarán Lynch, who is the chair of the banking inquiry, confirmed that the OPW had been told to come 
back with a cheaper plan.
   The costs will be substantially less than what was presented to us before,   he said.
Several committee members said privately that they did not want the inquiry into the causes of the EUR 64 billion 
banking bailout to have its credibility damaged by excessive set-up costs.
   These people are not operating in the real world. It's like they think we have an open-ended cheque book,   said 
one member.
TDs order OPW to cut EUR 1.6m costs of banking inquiry
The EUR 700,000 bill for renovating the Department of Agriculture had included the cost of new windows, leading to 
suspicions that the OPW was using the banking inquiry as    cover   for work it wanted to do anyway. Leinster 
House sources said the bill would be halved to EUR 350,000.
A separate EUR 400,000 bill for a new document management IT system is also expected to be cut to EUR 
200,000.
The actual banking inquiry hearings will take place in Committee Room One in the Leinster House complex, which 
is currently used by the Public Accounts Committee. Sources said that extra seats in the public gallery would be 
installed and a    break out   room built nearby so that committee members can debate issues in private without 
having to ask witnesses or spectators to leave.
When public hearings begin next year, they are expected to take place from 9am to 6pm each day in    week-long 
sessions  .
An OPW spokeswoman said that it had identified    suitable space   for the support staff for the banking inquiry, but 
that the final cost had not been determined.
Around EUR 3 million has been provisionally put aside in next year's Leinster House budget for the costs of the 
banking inquiry, which will include the wages of support staff.
The banking inquiry is due to get a report from a panel of outside experts on Wednesday about what period of time 
it is realistic for them to investigate. There is still no agreement among members about the timespan that the inquiry 
should cover.
Fianna Fáil Senator Marc MacSharry wants to begin in 2000, when the state adopted the euro currency. But other 
members argue the timeframe has to be tightly focused so it can finish by the deadline of November next year.
More meetings of the banking inquiry are due to be held, with the aim of getting the terms of reference submitted for 
approval when the Dáil returns from its summer break on September 17.
Load-Date: July 22, 2014
End of Document
Michael Murray: Predictions of a bear market are increasing, and there are some ominous signs. It's vital to 
prepare for the turn
Michael Murray: Predictions of a bear market are increasing, and there are 
some ominous signs. It's vital to prepare for the turn
Sunday Business Post
July 20, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 865 words
Body
Since the market touched bottom in March 2009, there has been a tremendous bull run, with the British market up 
by over 90 per cent and the US market doubling. Not surprisingly, the advance of the Irish market has been less 
impressive, with many of the star performers, such as Greencore and DCC, delisting from the Iseq and going onto 
the British exchange - and the banks being decimated.
But the Iseq still rose by over two-thirds over the five years, thanks to stellar performances by the agribusiness 
sector, including Kerry and Glanbia. Ryanair, Paddy Power, and FBD have been the other star performers.
Still, when institutional investors are showing caution and retail investors are piling into the global equity markets by 
buying index funds, and chasing valuations indiscriminately upwards, it is time to take stock.
Index fund investing is a way for an investor to get a wide range, weighted exposure to the dozens or hundreds of 
stocks that make up an index. When retail investors pile into them every share that makes up the index gets 
bought, without any regard to the underlying value of that share.
But the good news is that when the bear market arrives, and retail investors start to panic by selling out of their 
index funds, they indiscriminately push all of the shares within the index down. The problem with the approach is 
that when they buy the index, it invariably contains 20 per cent or more dogs and 20 per cent stars. So when they 
buy, they get exposure to the dogs along with the stars, and when they sell, they eliminate their exposure to the 
stars as well as the dogs. That in itself provides an opportunity, as the stars become undervalued.
Few people who choose their own stocks - as opposed to buying an index or other fund - will want to take an 
aggressive bet on a bear market in the autumn ahead by selling all their holdings and cashing in the profits they 
have booked over the past five years. In many cases, that would give rise to a substantial capital gains tax liability. 
Moreover, trying to time the turns - in or out - is a game that even the most astute investors struggle to win.
Michael Murray: Predictions of a bear market are increasing, and there are some ominous signs. It's vital to 
prepare for the turn
But at this point, I am going through my portfolio, deciding where value remains, where the risks are highest, and in 
what sectors and companies their crystallisation is most likely to hurt most. Having recovered losses that I incurred 
on BP since the    event risk   of the Gulf spill hit, I have cashed out of 80 per cent of my exposure to this accident-
prone company. And, having become thoroughly fed up with the banking sector's recurring fines and malpractices, I 
have cashed out of Barclays, and left the sale proceeds in cash (as opposed to massively overvalued bonds).
If I make another move, it will be to dispose of my HSBC holding in my pension fund. With those three moves, I will 
have reduced my overall portfolio weighting in shares from about 85 per cent to 75 per cent. I am happy that, 
whatever the subsequent setbacks in the market, the lion's share of the remainder of my portfolio will suffer only a 
temporary fall in value.
That's because they consist of shares that are predominantly moderately geared, non-cyclical and have reliable 
cashflows - be it from well-let investment property with diversified, mid-to-long-term quality rental streams, 
businesses with recurrent medium-term and diverse service contract-linked cashflows, globally branded everyday 
consumer staple businesses, or ones that enjoy proprietary technology and where barriers to entry are high.
So, few of the incipient signals need be unduly worrying if you adapt your portfolio to include non-cyclical, resilient 
stocks, and set aside some cash to go bargain-hunting when the correction comes. Some of the foretellers of 
trouble ahead include a slowdown in China and the start of corporate bond defaults there in the construction sector; 
the emergence of asset bubbles in certain segments of western property markets; and signs of a modest uptick in 
inflation beyond the eurozone which, if sustained, could frighten bond markets and highly leveraged segments of 
the equity market.
But none of these features need upset your portfolio over the long term if you have focused on value, cashflow, 
earnings and dividend sustainability. What patchy signs of incipient problems do require, however, is a thorough 
review of your portfolio to determine what should be relatively resilient in a market downturn, and what could take a 
real hammering.
The sectors I wouldn't be in at present include British housebuilders; small to mid-cap companies which are highly 
leveraged and valued on racy high-teen earnings multiples; and banks, most of which remain fragile and very 
vulnerable to a downturn, and some of which have started to revert to some of the old ways, with covenant-lite 
lending and rising cashflow leveraging.
In general, banks and insurers - even those with good dividend payments - are both pigs in a poke, and offer 
questionable value.
Aside from a comprehensive portfolio review, consideration of the tactics to use to handsomely enrich yourself in a 
bear market also merit consideration, including put options and contracts for difference. But that's a topic for 
another day.
Load-Date: July 22, 2014
End of Document
Cliff Taylor: All joking aside, it'll be interesting to see if yet another foreign national flies in to replace the out-
going Aer Lingus boss
Cliff Taylor: All joking aside, it'll be interesting to see if yet another foreign 
national flies in to replace the out-going Aer Lingus boss
Sunday Business Post
July 20, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 900 words
Body
Did you hear the one about the German, the Dutchman and the Italian? So went a question in business circles in 
recent weeks, with the answer being that the trio ran Aer Lingus. Dutchman Bernard Bot and Italian Federico 
Balzola were recently appointed respectively as chief financial officer and chief people and change officer (I know, 
corporate titles become ever more bizarre) following the departure of the two previous incumbents.
Now, however, the boss is moving on, with Christoph Mueller announcing he will leave next May, a date which 
could presumably be brought forward once a replacement is found.
One wonders in passing if the two incoming executives knew of Mueller's plans when they signed up. Presumably 
they did. Either way it will be interesting to see if Mueller is now replaced by an Irish person or by another foreign 
national. Irish banking is still seen as so toxic that the government judged it necessary to appoint one Englishman, 
Richard Pym, to succeed another - David Hodkinson - as chair of AIB. At least chief executive David Duffy is Irish, 
though spent most of his career abroad.
Airlines executives do not carry the same history as their banking counterparts, but there aren't that many of them 
around. What about other big company bosses? Inevitably Patrick Kennedy, the Paddy Power boss who recently 
announced he was leaving, featured in early speculation on the Aer Lingus job. Given his success at Paddy Power 
he could pretty much have his pick of jobs here or internationally. Would he want to enter the Aer Lingus bearpit? 
Time will tell.
Aer Lingus is only 25 per cent owned by the state, of course, but Mueller had a high-profile row with former 
Transport Minister Leo Varadkar about his remuneration, and particularly the pension top up in his 2013 bonus, an 
ill-judged perk at a time when the airline is trying to solve a problem in its pension fund which will involve much pain 
for current and former staff.
Cliff Taylor: All joking aside, it'll be interesting to see if yet another foreign national flies in to replace the out-
going Aer Lingus boss
It would be ironic if Mueller brokered the solution to this one before he left. In any case, he has made a lot of 
progress at the airline, but it will fall to his successor to manage the way through a fundamental change in the 
shareholder base. The government, with 25 per cent, is likely to sell at some stage, though is under no immediate 
pressure to do so.
Ryanair is appealing a UK Competition Commission ruling that it must sell all but 5 per cent of its 29.8 shareholding, 
to the UK Court of Appeal. Barring a surprise victory here, its stake could also be on the block early next year. 
Middle Eastern airline Etihad has taken 4.11 per cent and could be a substantial minority shareholder, but the 
overall balance of control of the airline in the years ahead will be up for grabs. This will be the key issue facing the 
new boss.
**The bottom line on the banks**
We have had a lot of news in the last while about the winding up of IBRC and the quicker wind-down of Nama. So it 
is interesting to look at the bottom line in all this. The state put in EUR 65 billion-plus to rescue the banks. How 
much are we now likely to get back?
The answer would seem to lie somewhere between EUR 20 billion and EUR 30 billion, with much hanging on 
whether the state can eventually sell its AIB shares - and how much it gets for them.
The state has so far got back not far off EUR 12 billion by selling much of its investment in Bank of Ireland, 
offloading Irish Life and by fees and charges paid by the banks in return for the guarantee. (It seems reasonable to 
count these in the sums. They amount to about EUR 6 billion.)
An analysis by financial firm Glas (now closed) estimated that the state was carrying the remaining stakes it had at 
EUR 12 billion in its books.
So if you reckon the state can sell off these assets - primarily AIB shares - for what they are valued at, then the total 
payback could be around EUR 24 billion.
Certainly the remaining 15 per cent stake in Bank of Ireland looks    saleable  , but the big game will be AIB, into 
which the state poured more than EUR 20 billion. The current plan is to test the market next year and this will put a 
much firmer valuation on this stake. If the economy keeps growing and if investors remain    hot   on Ireland, then 
AIB could even be worth a bit more - but this is hard to call a year out. On the negative side of the equation, the 
state may have to put its hand in its pocket to sort out Permanent TSB, whose loss-making tracker book remains a 
real conundrum.
The early wind-up of Nama, together with the IBRC sale, will hopefully clarify that there are no further holes to be 
filled in the assets held by these two. Either might return a small surplus when all the sums are added up, by which I 
mean they could chip in a couple of billion to reduce the overall EUR 65 billion figure a bit.
And then there is the European question and Ireland's push for some recompense for the recapitalisation bill. There 
has been little or no progress on this. And if AIB is saleable on the market, there seems little point in trying to sell it 
to the EU rescue fund instead. So the state will probably use the whole thing as a bargaining chip for some other 
form of assistance, possibly in relation to Permanent TSB.
Overall we look likely to get back a fair bit of the EUR 30 billion pumped into AIB and Bank of Ireland, but very little 
of the near EUR 35 billion put into Anglo and Irish Nationwide. That is the bottom line.
Load-Date: July 22, 2014
End of Document
Tech week: By Emmet Ryan
Tech week: By Emmet Ryan
Sunday Business Post
July 20, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: TECHNOLOGY
Length: 308 words
Body
Three Ireland seals the deal on O2
Three Ireland finally completed its takeover of O2 last week. The deal, which was approved by the European 
Commission, saw Three pay EUR 850 million for the rival network.
The purchase makes Three the second largest provider in the mobile market, behind Vodafone, with an 
approximate share of 40 per cent. The confirmation of the deal follows Three announcing deals with Carphone 
Warehouse and UPC to support mobile offerings.
.........................
**Music for friends with new Soundwave app**
Dublin-based music app developer Soundwave has announced the launch of the new version of its app, 
Soundwave 2.0.
The firm, which is backed by Mark Cuban and ACT Venture Capital, celebrated its first birthday last month. The 
latest release of the app allows users to create private groups to chat and share music with friends.
''We continue to remain focused on the product and continue to keep our users at the heart of all iteration decisions, 
said Aidan Sliney, chief technical officer at Soundwave.
.........................
**Strencom scoops top Microsoft award**
Strencom has been named Microsoft's Irish partner of the year for communications. The Cork-based firm, which 
provides unified communications services, received the award for the second year running. PFH, which has offices 
Tech week: By Emmet Ryan
across the island and is headquartered in Dublin, was named Irish SME cloud partner of year by Microsoft, while 
the firm's client director, Aidan Ryan, was awarded Microsoft salesperson of the year for Ireland.
...........................
**Ryanair updates its boarding app**
Ryanair has updated its app to allow boarding without a printed boarding pass. The airline has also made the app 
free, whereas previous iterations which didn't have the boarding pass feature had to be paid for. The updated app is 
available on both iOS and Android.
Load-Date: July 22, 2014
End of Document
Duelling duals; Stories - Observations
Duelling duals; Stories - Observations
Financial Times (London, England)
July 19, 2014 Saturday
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT MAGAZINE; Pg. 32
Length: 915 words
Byline: Douglas Coupland
Highlight: What does citizenship really mean - and can you ever have too much of it?
Body
This past week I've had several out-of-towners visiting, most of whom seem to have dual citizenships, if not three or 
four. Curious, I asked each visitor which citizenship they'd choose to keep if they were forced to keep just one. 
Their universal response was to inhale, stare off into the horizon, scratch their foreheads and hope that the subject 
would pass. I didn't realise this was such a thorny topic.
"Come on, it can't be that hard. American or British?"
Push comes to shove: British.
"Australian or EU?"
Australian.
"Danish or American?"
Trick question: Danes are only allowed one citizenship - for now.
This got me to thinking, what is citizenship, anyway? Hi! I'm a citizen of wherever. I live there, vote there and pay 
taxes there - and if I'm kidnapped by malignant forces in some faraway land, my government will come running to 
my rescue. Seems fair enough, but if you've got four passports, can you reasonably expect one of your countries to 
come to your rescue?
Duelling duals; Stories - Observations
I mean, by that point, you're basically a citizen of nowhere or, at the very most, you've got citizenship-lite, the 
citizenship equivalent of Ryanair. Hi, I know, I haven't been voting or paying taxes or anything for a few decades, 
but I'm in a bit of a bind... can you ask one of your consul chaps to maybe trade me for a spy or something?
So if you're going to have more than one citizenship, why not push the idea to the max and collect them in bulk? 
Maybe find some inexpensive citizenships and collect passports like stamps, or maybe hand them out as Christmas 
presents - or as birthday gifts, sort of like having a star named after you. So I began looking around at countries 
with low GDPs, thinking that maybe, for a notional fee, they might earn some free cash selling novelty citizenships 
that convey little functionality, but a dash of intrigue, to their owners. If Liechtenstein can make big bucks selling 
postage stamps, why not go into the boutique citizenship business? During a slow moment at the dinner table you 
can say, "Honey, I have a surprise for you.
I know you think I forgot your birthday, but I didn't. In fact I got you a little something. Here... open this." This turns 
out to be an envelope containing citizenship to Malawi.
"Oh honey. You shouldn't have."
But there's a catch: Malawi only allows its citizens to be citizens of Malawi, and naturalised citizenship applicants 
must be from another Commonwealth country and have lived for five years in Malawi (or have lived there seven 
years if they're from anywhere else). They must also intend to reside permanently in Malawi and renounce all other 
citizenships. It actually turns out that getting citizenship anywhere is pretty hard. In North Korea naturalised 
citizenship can only be granted by the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, even if you're vital to the 
country's ongoing stability, like being a stadium flashcard technician. Vatican citizenship is both difficult and 
interesting to obtain. Citizenship is usually held only by those in office, such as cardinals or the Pope. Citizenship is, 
for most, lost when the term of office comes to an end, and children cannot inherit it from their parents. [Wait a 
second... children? Ed.]
Until this past month, one could essentially purchase Canadian citizenship for about C$100,000 - the interest on a 
five-year loan of 800K to the government - a price tag that was kept under the radar of the populace, who grew 
furious on learning it was actually true. It was also collectively humiliated to learn how relatively cheap the price tag 
was. Also in Canadian citizenship news, Texas senator and Tea party enthusiast Ted Cruz - a man with presidential 
aspirations - has formally renounced his Canadian citizenship. Born in Canada in 1970 to an American mother, 
Cruz has always been an American citizen and is technically eligible to run for president, but his opponents ran a 
vicious smear campaign cruelly branding him as "Canadian Ted".
A way of rethinking the global web of overlapping allegiances would be to wonder what might happen if Earth 
instituted a planet-wide citizenship flush. Whoever you are, you now have to choose just one passport - so, which is 
it going to be? The answer would probably boil down to multiple factors, the largest including personal identity, ease 
of crossing borders, consular access while abroad and, of course, taxes. Sure, a low tax rate is great, but if I break 
my arm do I really want to spend $75,000 fixing it? Yes, popping in and out of Europe is terrific, but would I want to 
forfeit getting a lump in my throat if I hear my ex-national anthem playing? What exactly is citizenship? What does it 
mean to say I'm this and you're that? The fact that almost every country on Earth makes it very difficult to become a 
citizen means that citizenship has to mean something. I think this week when I was asking my guests what 
citizenship they would choose if they could only have one, I was unwittingly taking them to task for trying to have 
their cake and eat it, too. Can you really have the best of all worlds, bing bang boom, whenever it suits your needs?
I suspect polycitizenry is a creation of the 20th century, and a creation whose days are numbered. As the world gets 
ever more pay-per-use, the luxury of low-commitment semi-disposable allegiance seems, if nothing else, too 
expensive.
If nothing else, Canada put a number on it.
Douglas Coupland's most recent novel, 'Worst. Person. Ever." is published by William Heinemann. Twitter: 
@dougcoupland
Duelling duals; Stories - Observations
Load-Date: July 18, 2014
End of Document
European shares fall; EU Shares
European shares fall; EU Shares
Business World (Digest)
July 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 207 words
Highlight: European stocks fell on Friday, extending losses made late in the previous session after a passenger 
plane was shot down over eastern Ukraine, fueling tensions between Russia and the West.
Body
European stocks fell on Friday,
extending losses made late in the
previous session after a passenger plane
was shot down over eastern Ukraine,
fueling tensions between Russia and the
West. The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index was down by 0.5 percent at 1,356.29 by 0705 GMT after ending 
Thursday 1 percent lower following a sell-off in late trade sparked by reports that the Malaysian airliner had 
crashed. Airline stocks such as Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair were 1.5 percent lower, as major travel companies 
rerouted flights to avoid Ukranian airspace. U.S. and Asian stocks fell sharply after a U.S. official said Washington 
strongly suspected the Boeing 777 was downed by a surface-to-air missile fired by Ukrainian separatists backed by 
Moscow. All 298 people on board were killed. The disaster could prove a turning point for international pressure to 
resolve the crisis in Ukraine, which has killed hundreds since protests toppled the Moscow-backed president in Kiev 
in February and Russia annexed the Crimea a month later. But uncertainty over how the incident will affect the 
conflict between the Ukrainian government and separatists could mean investors are reluctant to hold long 
positions. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 22, 2014
European shares fall; EU Shares
End of Document
Ryanair not biggest for market reach; Ryanair Reach
Ryanair not biggest for market reach; Ryanair Reach
Business World (Digest)
July 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 335 words
Highlight: Ryanair carries more passengers than any other European no-frills airline, but it comes in last place 
when it comes to geographical reach.
Body
Ryanair carries more passengers than any other European no-frills airline, but it comes in last place when it comes 
to geographical reach.
The Irish airline carried 81.7m passengers to 178 destinations compared to easyJet's 60.8m passengers and 130 
destinations, according to Flightglobal and Innovata Diio Mi data.
But analysis from online civil aviation magazine, Anna Aero, aims to reveal which of Europe's big six low cost 
carriers (LCC) - Ryanair, easyJet, Norwegian, Vueling, Pegasus Airlines and Wizz Air - flies to the largest range of 
countries, and therefore gives its passengers the broadest geographical network.
It found that, although Ryanair is nearly four times larger in terms of annual passengers and easyJet around three 
times than Norwegian (20.7m passengers, 118 destinations) and Vueling (17.2m passengers, 130 destinations), 
both of the European big boys are well beaten by the smaller LCCs in terms of the number of countries served. 
Norwegian and Vueling share top spot, flying to 38 separate markets each. Wizz Air flies to 36, Pegasus to 34 and 
easyJet to 32 while Ryanair flies to 30. Seasonality has large part to play in terms of an LCC's destination network, 
and it is no different when country markets are considered, with sun and snow giving carriers a reasonable amount 
of variance during the year. On this basis, Vueling is the most 'seasonal' carrier, operating 10 country markets 
(Armenia, Bulgaria, Belarus, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Luxembourg, Malta, Cyprus and Lebanon) in S14 which will 
not be operated in the coming W14/15 period. These markets are largely insignificant to Vueling, as combined they 
represent less than 1pc of total weekly flights, Anna Aero reports. Pegasus, and perhaps surprisingly Ryanair, have 
the least 'seasonality' in terms of the variance in country markets between the W14/15 and S14 seasons, with both 
carriers cutting their networks by one country market each - Croatia for Ryanair and Hungary for Pegasus. For more 
visit: www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair not biggest for market reach; Ryanair Reach
Load-Date: July 22, 2014
End of Document
Low-cost airlines struggle to fly further
Low-cost airlines struggle to fly further
Financial Times (London, England)
July 17, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: BUSINESS AND SOCIETY; Pg. 12
Length: 734 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
Boeing has been touting its 787 Dreamliner aircraft around the Farnborough air show this week and Bjørn Kjos, 
chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle, is happy to support the US manufacturer's promotion.
Norwegian has launched flights from London's Gatwick airport to New York, Los Angeles and Florida - an attempt 
to offer a low-cost transatlantic service that has defeated every airline entrepreneur since Sir Freddie Laker tried it 
in the late 1970s.
What is different this time, Mr Kjos says, is the Dreamliner, which, in spite of its initial battery troubles , cuts fuel use 
sufficiently to make no-frills flights between Europe and the US feasible.
Is Mr Kjos right? Norwegian is not where we should be starting; discussing transatlantic flights is parochial. The real 
action in low-cost flying is not in Europe or the US, but in Asia-Pacific, where, at the beginning of the year, there 
were 47 low-cost airlines flying 1,000 aircraft, with another 1,500 on order, according to the Centre for Aviation .
I recently flew from Kuala Lumpur to Melbourne and back with AirAsia, the biggest of the region's budget airlines, 
and was forced to revise my opinion of cut-price flying.
In the 1990s, when leading European budget airlines Ryanair and easyJet were establishing themselves, the 
accepted view was that three hours was the longest passengers would agree to fly on a no-frills airline.
Low-cost airlines struggle to fly further
After that they would demand to be fed, which would destroy one of the central tenets of budget airline economics, 
which is that you feed only those who are prepared to pay extra and that you don't feed them very much.
EasyJet has already stretched that supposed limit, with flights, for example, between London and Sharm el-Sheikh 
or Tel Aviv, which can take five hours.
AirAsia's trip from Melbourne to Kuala Lumpur is more than eight hours - not much different from the flying time 
from London to New York. Yet, my AirAsia flight, which cost less than £300 return even after I had paid for extra 
legroom, was fine.
Two things have made longer budget flights more bearable. First, economy flights on established airlines have 
become less bearable. There is not much legroom and better "yield management" - pricing to pack more 
passengers on to each flight - means that they are almost always full.
The established airlines also feed you less than they did. There is no longer much difference between a budget 
carrier's service and an old-style airline's. On either, flights are to be endured rather than enjoyed.
The second change is that passing the time is now as easy on a no-frills airline as on a traditional one. Those who 
don't read no longer rely on the airlines to provide music and movies. Even on "full-service" flights with dozens of 
movies on offer, you see people watching films on their tablets and phones.
Passengers can put up with the rigours of long-haul no-frills flying when the price is low, but that does not mean that 
the budget airlines will survive.
Low-cost airlines have advantages over established carriers on short flights, apart from not serving hot meals to 
everyone. They can work their crews and aircraft harder, flying more flights each day.
With no first and business-class passengers, they do not need as many flight attendants. With fewer unionised 
workers, they can pay less. Being newer, and less generous, they do not have large pension obligations.
However, as a 2011 Journal of Air Transport Studies article pointed out, transferring these advantages to long-haul 
flights "is not a trivial task". Crews have to be rested after a long-haul flight; they cannot be ordered on to the return 
leg after picking up the on-board litter.
Asia may be a special case: the middle class is expanding fast and there is huge new demand for flying. Even 
there, however, some airlines are finding it tough. Qantas of Australia said in February that it was suspending the 
Asian expansion of Jetstar , its low-cost operator. Not all those dozens of Asian budget carriers will survive.
What of Norwegian? It already flies from Scandinavia to Bangkok, but the Atlantic will be harder. Zoom Airlines , a 
Canadian transatlantic budget carrier, collapsed in 2008.
Even with the Dreamliner, aircraft fuel is expensive and the established transatlantic airlines are not going to roll 
over. They have, after all, been seeing off low-cost upstarts since Sir Freddie's day.
 Twitter: @Skapinker
Load-Date: July 16, 2014
End of Document
Growth plan lends wings to Stansted travel & leisure
Growth plan lends wings to Stansted; travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
July 16, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 409 words
Byline: Andrew Bounds, North of England Correspondent
Highlight: Passenger numbers increase 10 per cent
Body
Passenger numbers at Stansted airport have grown 10 per cent following heavy investment, its new owner 
Manchester Airports Group said yesterday.
Announcing increased revenues and passenger numbers across the business, the UK's second largest operator 
said the Essex-based airport contributed 18m passengers, £245.1m revenue and £88.9m in earnings before 
interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation in the year to March 31 2014.
Excluding Stansted, revenue in the year to March grew by £33m (8.4 per cent) to £426.1m, and operating profit 
before significant items was £83.9m - 11.4 per cent up. "Stansted has performed £6m better than our business 
plan," said Neil Thompson, chief financial officer of MAG. "It is only 50 per cent full. We believe we can unlock its 
potential."
MAG bought Stansted in February 2013 to add to Manchester - the UK's largest airport outside the southeast - East 
Midlands and Bournemouth.
Stansted passenger numbers had increased by just 500,000 in the year to March but grew 10 per cent in the next 
quarter, Thompson said, adding that Stansted had the scope to expand.
Growth plan lends wings to Stansted travel & leisure
He said: "Its previous owner had no incentive to develop it. We can incentivise growth and fund new routes. 
Stansted can compete with Heathrow and Gatwick because we can offer lower prices."
MAG has signed a 10-year agreement with Ryanair, which provides the bulk of Stansted passengers.
Thomas Cook is also starting long-haul flights to the US and Caribbean from both Manchester and Stansted.
MAG successfully lobbied for the Civil Aviation Authority to end the regulation of fares at Stansted, arguing the 
airport did not have a dominant market position, saving £1m annually in management time.
In its interim report, the Davies review of air capacity rejected a second runway at Stansted before 2030 as one of 
the ways to deal with growth in the southeast aviation market.
However, it backed improving the rail link to cut the time to London from 47 minutes to 30.
The airport group handled a total of 43.8m passengers, with Manchester contributing nearly 21m - a rise of 1m, or 
more than 8 per cent year-on-year.
Passenger numbers were static at Bournemouth, but cost cuts restored the operation to profit.
East Midlands gained from strong passenger and freight growth as the economy recovered.
MAG has invested £80m in a Stansted terminal, out of a total of £135.46m in capital expenditure.
Its net debt was £1.2bn and interest costs were up from £31.1m to £59.6m.
Load-Date: July 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches two new routes from London to Edinburgh and Glasgow
Ryanair launches two new routes from London to Edinburgh and Glasgow
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 15, 2014 Tuesday 12:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 419 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has launched two new routes between London and Edinburgh, and London and 
Glasgow International, both three times daily, as part of an extended London Stansted 2014 winter schedule.
Body
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at London Stansted will deliver: 2 new domestic routes: to/from Edinburgh & 
Glasgow International; 10 other new routes: Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, Cologne, Perpignan, Podgorica, 
Prague, Rabat & Skelleftea; 113 Stansted routes in total; increased frequencies & improved schedules on 36 other 
routes; over 2.5m new Ryanair customers p.a. at Stansted (15.7m in total); and over 2,500 additional jobs sustained 
at Stansted Airport. Ryanair again called on the UK Government to repeal Air Passenger duty and follow the 
example of Ireland, where Ryanair has launched 21 new routes and will deliver over 1.2m new customers this year 
in response to the Irish Government's welcome decision to scrap APD. In London, Ryanair's Chief Marketing 
Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to launch two new UK domestic routes between London Stansted 
and Edinburgh and Glasgow International, starting this October, with three daily return flights at fares starting from 
just GBP19.99, which are almost half of BA's fares and 40% cheaper than Easyjet's. These routes are in response 
to strong demand from our UK customers, in particular UK business travellers, and domestic routes are an 
important part of our strategy. 
We would again call on the UK Government to repeal Air Passenger Duty to help stimulate traffic, tourism and job 
growth. "UK consumers already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route 
choice. Now they can also book their flights on our improved website, carry a free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy 
allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra service, and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their 
flight. We also have a new app and business product coming soon, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more 
than just the lowest fares. "Our 12 new London Stansted winter routes with multiple daily frequencies are ideal for 
business passengers or families booking a winter sun or ski getaway and as Stansted's biggest airline, Ryanair 
looks forward to continuing to work closely with M.A.G. to grow traffic, routes and jobs at Stansted Airport." 
Stansted Airport Managing Director, Andrew Harrison said: "Today's announcement of more new Ryanair routes 
from Stansted for winter 2014 is great news for passengers wanting more choice of destinations and great value 
Ryanair launches two new routes from London to Edinburgh and Glasgow
fares. This is a clear demonstration of the role that Stansted will play over the coming years in meeting demand for 
increased connectivity."
Load-Date: July 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches new route between Dublin and Glasgow
Ryanair launches new route between Dublin and Glasgow
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 15, 2014 Tuesday 11:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 215 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched a new Dublin-Glasgow International route as part of its extended Dublin winter 
2014 schedule.
Body
This new (3 times daily) Dublin-Glasgow International route will replace Ryanair's current (once daily) Dublin-
Glasgow Prestwick route, which will enable Ryanair to grow traffic from 100,000 to 300,000 p.a. to/from Glasgow, 
and will compliment Ryanair's existing Dublin-Edinburgh route (also three times daily). Ryanair's winter 2014 
schedule at Dublin will deliver: 8 new routes to Basel, Bucharest, Cologne, Glasgow, Lisbon, Marrakesh, Nice & 
Prague; 59 Dublin routes in total; increased frequencies & improved schedules on 21 other routes; and over 
800,000 new Ryanair customers p.a. at Dublin (8.35m in total). Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs 
said: "Our 8 new Dublin winter routes with multiple daily frequencies are ideal for business customers or families 
booking a winter sun or ski getaway. Irish consumers already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading 
customer service and great route choice. Now they can also book their flights on our improved website, carry a free 
small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra service, and use their personal 
electronic devices at all stages of their flight. We also have a new app and business product coming soon, as 
Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: July 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches new digital and IT hub in Swords
Ryanair launches new digital and IT hub in Swords
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 15, 2014 Tuesday 12:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 241 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has launched Ryanair Labs, a new digital and IT hub based at its Dublin office campus 
in Swords.
Body
Ryanair is seeking to fill a range of roles, including executive positions, in the areas of software development, data, 
QA and testing, UX and design and media positions, including: chief technology officer, head of digital marketing, 
mobile developer: Android or iOS, head of mobile, innovation hacker - graduate, market intelligence analyst, site 
analytics manager, CRM/Data science executive, QA and software test manager, software test engineer, UX 
specialist, UX lead, UI designer, social media manager, online advertising manager, and lead content executive. 
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair changed air travel in Europe forever - now we want to change the world of 
online travel and we're going to do that through Ryanair Labs, a state-of-the-art digital innovation hub based at our 
new Dublin offices. 
We're seeking to hire the best of the best to reimagine the online travel sector. Whether you write code or copy we 
want free thinkers, creatives and people who can not only imagine, but build amazing experiences. "Strategy, 
architecture, design and content will all be done here in Dublin and the work will be used by millions of people. 
We're proud to pay well to make sure we get and keep the best people and Ryanair Labs will offer the perks and 
culture of a start-up without the downsides. We're hiring a range of digital and IT roles and those interested in 
starting an online travel revolution can apply through Labs.Ryanair.com."
Load-Date: July 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair June passenger traffic increases
Ryanair June passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 15, 2014 Tuesday 10:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 86 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has reported that passenger traffic for the month of June 2014 was 8.3 million passengers, 
an increase of 5%, compared to 7.9 million passengers for June 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of June 2014 was 88%, an increase of four percentage points, compared to 84% for June 
2013. Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to 8.3m customers in 
June, thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our great new website, allocated 
seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and PED use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than 
just the lowest fares in every market for our 82.7m customers."
Load-Date: July 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair sticks to forecasts; Ryanair
Ryanair sticks to forecasts; Ryanair
Business World (Digest)
July 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 279 words
Highlight: Ryanair has no plans to cut its profit forecast for the current financial year despite warnings by rivals Air 
France-KLM and Lufthansa , Chief Executive Michael O'Leary told Reuters on Monday.
Body
Ryanair has no plans to cut its profit forecast for the current financial year despite warnings by rivals Air France-
KLM and Lufthansa , Chief Executive Michael O'Leary told Reuters on Monday.
Ryanair shares climbed 2 percent to 6.79 euros (dollar 9.26)following the comments, which come two weeks before 
the airline is due to release quarterly financial results for the three months to the end of June.
"While many of our other competitors, Aer Lingus, Lufthansa, KLM have been out with profit warnings, we see no 
reason to change the range of our guidance for the coming year," O'Leary said in an interview.
Forward bookings are "running cumulatively 7 percentage points ahead on a rolling basis... into September, 
October," he said, adding that this would equate to an increase in passenger numbers of between 4 and 5 million 
passengers for the full year despite no growth in capacity. "An awful lot of it is we are just taking passengers off 
other competitors" following customer service improvements such as cuts to fees for carry on bags and assigned 
seating, he said. Ryanair in May forecast that it would make a profit of between 580 million euros million)and 620 
million euros (dollar 791.15-dollar 845.71 million) in the year to March 2015. Air France-KLM, Europe's second-
largest traditional network carrier last week warned its 2014 profit could be as much as 12 percent lower than 
previously predicted, mainly due to overcapacity and resulting weak prices. Lufthansa last month cut back its profit 
targets for the next two years, citing competition with low-cost rivals like Ryanair and easyJet as one of the factors. 
(Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 17, 2014
Ryanair sticks to forecasts; Ryanair
End of Document
Budget carriers create a new map for airlines Economy travel
Budget carriers create a new map for airlines; Economy travel
Financial Times (London, England)
July 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - AEROSPACE; Pg. 2
Length: 830 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: Cut-price upstarts gain the advantage, writes Jane Wild
Body
When two airlines started offering cut-price fares in the 1990s they fired up a process of change that is reshaping 
Europe's aviation industry and leaving winners and losers in its wake.
Irish carrier Ryanair took inspiration from the US, where Southwest Airlines - its flight attendants clad in orange hot 
pants - had in 1971 been the originator of low-cost flying with $10 and $20 fares.
Ryanair was quickly followed by easyJet in taking advantage of deregulation and bringing the no-frills concept to 
Europe. The focus on low fares and simply getting the passenger from A to B was a revolution for passengers used 
to higher fares and the fuller service of traditional airlines.
But the resulting competition set in place a transformation that is blurring the boundaries between low-cost carriers 
and their traditional rivals. The cut-price upstarts have so far gained the advantage.
"Lower-cost carriers are taking the lunch of legacy carriers," says Jonathan Wober, analyst at the Centre for 
Aviation, a consultancy. "Legacy airlines have had to become more efficient and lower their costs."
Low-cost carriers have about half of the market and have seized customers from the traditional airlines, many of 
which are seeking to slash costs or are engaged in difficult restructuring. For example, International Airlines Group - 
parent of British Airways - has cut 3,000 jobs at Iberia, its Spanish subsidiary.
Budget carriers create a new map for airlines Economy travel
Low-cost airlines have pounced on opportunities in countries with struggling national carriers. In Italy, Ryanair, 
easyJet and Vueling are competing over the territory of Alitalia, which has not made a full-year net profit since 2002.
"Low-cost carriers have demonstrated that short-haul air travel is largely a commodity product where the lowest-
cost producers win," says Oliver Sleath, airlines analyst at Barclays.
"On a two-hour flight, the vast majority of passengers simply want a safe, punctual, comfortable journey at the best-
value fare. That is what the low-cost carrier business model can deliver - and highly profitably too."
Average profit margins of leading low-cost airlines are in double-digits. Traditional carriers struggle to break even. 
To fight back, flag carriers have launched their own low-cost brands, such as Lufthansa's Germanwings and IAG's 
Vueling.
But the era of travel at the very lowest cost is over, say airline executives. Ryanair, which has the lowest costs in 
the industry, according to Centre for Aviation data, last year announced plans to improve its customer service amid 
two profit warnings by the company. It has aped easyJet with improvements, such as a more user-friendly website, 
dropping punitive charges for forgotten boarding cards and allowing a second small bag to be carried free on board. 
Yet analysts are divided on Ryanair's ability to polish up its public image
Already Europe's biggest airline with 82.7m passengers in the past year, Ryanair is looking to take a bigger slice of 
the lucrative business traveller market, as easyJet has done. This amounts to another step into the territory of 
traditional carriers.
While the pair have built an advantage as Europe's leading budget carriers, Ryanair has been less successful than 
easyJet in developing a route network. EasyJet, Europe's third biggest carrier after Lufthansa - with 63.4m 
passengers in the past year - has steadily built slots at the bigger and popular primary airports, such as Charles de 
Gaulle in Paris.
The budget airlines' success has enticed new entrants into the market. Norwegian Air Shuttle, Europe's number 
three low-cost airline, is mounting a big challenge with its attempt to take budget flying into a new phase - long-haul, 
another preserve of the traditional airlines.
Behind Norwegian are Vueling, Hungary's Wizz, and Turkey's Pegasus.
"We see a push from the low-cost carriers to move upwards," said Holger Taubmann, vice-president of distribution 
at Amadeus, an online distributor of tickets and other services for the industry, whose clients include easyJet and 
Germanwings.
It is a reflection of their success that the budget airlines have seen traditional carriers copy them. Just as Ryanair 
sells assigned seating and hold space for luggage as extras, British Airways has started to charge more for 
additional checked baggage. "Full-service carriers are emulating low-cost carriers, trying to sell additional services," 
says Mr Taubmann.
Average revenue from such services has risen for airlines from zero in 2007 to almost $20 per passenger now, says 
the International Air Transport Association.
Competition may be toughening but it comes at a time of rising commercial airline profitability in Europe, where total 
net profit of all airlines, including low-cost carriers, is expected to reach $2.8bn this year. That compares with 
$500m in 2013 and is driven by the low-cost airlines, says Iata.
With airlines' business models converging and traditional airlines forced to retrench, analysts agree that the sector 
is set for further consolidation.
Load-Date: July 13, 2014
Budget carriers create a new map for airlines Economy travel
End of Document
Low-cost Scandinavian operator retains hope of living the dream
Low-cost Scandinavian operator retains hope of living the dream
Financial Times (London, England)
July 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - AEROSPACE; Pg. 2
Length: 746 words
Byline: Richard Milne
Highlight: Profile
Norwegian Air Shuttle
Delays and lack of alliance partner have hit services, writes Richard Milne
Body
On Saturday June 21, more than 200 passengers were looking forward to flying from Orlando to Oslo on Norwegian 
Air Shuttle's new Boeing Dreamliner. Their excitement soon changed to irritation. Maintenance problems led to 
delays that grew longer and longer. The 221 exhausted passengers eventually arrived in Oslo more than 44 hours 
late.
The incident was a familiar one for low-cost Norwegian. Since the airline started long-haul services last year with 
the Dreamliners, it has faced a barrage of negative headlines. Big delays, unhelpful staff and an inability to 
purchase even water on some flights have threatened the airline's hitherto good local image.
If ever an area were made for a low-cost airline, it would be Scandinavia. Dominated by SAS - part-owned by the 
governments of Denmark, Norway and Sweden - the regional air industry has been characterised by higher prices 
than in much of Europe, where the likes of Ryanair and easyJet have helped reduce fares.
Enter Norwegian and its chief executive, Bjorn Kjos. A former fighter jet pilot and author of crime novels, Mr Kjos 
has shaken up the Scandinavian market with much of the same chutzpah and publicity-grabbing antics as Ryanair's 
Michael O'Leary did in Ireland and the UK.
Low-cost Scandinavian operator retains hope of living the dream
Norwegian Air Shuttle started in 1993 in modest circumstances. Mr Kjos, at the time a lawyer, took a big stake as it 
was proving difficult to find other investors. A decade later, the airline with which Norwegian had a contract for 
commuter routes was taken over by SAS. Mr Kjos pushed ahead with a focus on low cost.
Norwegian is now a clear third behind Ryanair and easyJet. Its lowest fares are not as cheap as Ryanair's but its 
onboard services usually match those of its Irish rival. It has become one of the first European airlines to have WiFi 
on most of its planes.
But as the Orlando delay shows, Norwegian is at a delicate stage in its development. It has fast expanded its short-
haul network in Europe, with bases not just in its Scandinavian homeland at Oslo, Copenhagen and Stockholm but 
also at airports such as London Gatwick, Madrid Barajas and Tenerife.
It has become the latest low-cost airline to attempt to crack the long-haul market. Many have failed, such as 
trailblazer Laker Airways, while others have struggled. Air Asia gave up its routes between Asia and London and 
Paris because of high fuel prices and low demand.
Norwegian does not lack ambition. It has five Dreamliners and orders in for 12 more by 2018. That is on top of the 
biggest aeroplane order placed in Europe: 222 shorthaul Boeing and Airbus aircraft.
Mr Kjos is insistent that the timing is right for cheap long-haul flights. He argues that previous airlines struggled 
because they were not able to use fuel-efficient aircraft such as the Dreamliner. "First of all, I don't think they have 
had the possibility due to the type of aircraft they were flying," he says. "To do long haul today on a low-cost 
approach you need a very good aircraft. That means you have to have a low fuel burn and you have to have a 
possibility to keep it up in the air as long as possible." He stresses that the aircraft need to be used 17-18 hours a 
day rather than the 12-13 hours previously possible.
The repeated delays to its Dreamliners have hurt Norwegian. As it lacks an alliance partner, it has found renting 
replacement aircraft expensive and tricky. In the Orlando case, it had to wait for a part to come from London and 
was not able to charter a replacement aircraft as the football World Cup was soaking up capacity.
Oliver Sleath, analyst at Barclays, says fuel costs and passenger taxes are big hurdles on long-haul flights. "It will 
be tough to make it work," he adds. "The fact that Ryanair has not done low-cost long haul speaks volumes."
Norwegian has suffered PR problems over its attempts to avoid high Nordic labour costs by basing planes and crew 
in other countries, such as Spain, the UK, the US and Thailand. Its attempt to exploit the US-European "open skies" 
agreement by establishing a base in low-tax Ireland has run into trouble in the US from airlines and unions.
Mr Kjos professes to be unfazed. In Asia he is turning his sights beyond Thai destinations popular with 
Scandinavians.
Two groups of airlines will be left in Europe, he says. One is big legacy carriers such as British Airways, while 
smaller ones - such as SAS - will struggle. The others, naturally, will include Norwegian. "Low-cost carriers," he 
says, "will be stronger and stronger."
Load-Date: July 13, 2014
End of Document
Social media leave boards cold; MEDIA
Social media leave boards cold; MEDIA
Financial Times (London, England)
July 14, 2014 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 683 words
Byline: Alison Smith
Highlight: News analysis
Half of UK boardrooms have no strategy for new media, writes Alison Smith
Body
Almost half the boards of the UK's largest public companies have not discussed their social media strategies in the 
past 12 months.
And only 7 per cent have discussed it four times or more in that period, according to the latest FT/ICSA Boardroom 
Bellwether survey. As many as one in three say social media strategy is unimportant to the board, against only 
about one in four who say it is important.
The findings, from the fifth Bellwether survey of FTSE 350 company secretaries, suggest that despite the attention 
that some social media initiatives attract, this area of the business does not generally command the boardroom time 
that might be expected.
Survey responses also show that for the first time more than half regard the government as business-friendly. In the 
spring of 2012, just one in eight of respondents said the coalition government was pro-business.
At the same time, the sense that the opposition does not care about big business appears to have hardened. For 
the second time running, two-thirds of respondents described Labour as businessunfriendly, though the answers 
came in before the latest Labour initiatives to woo corporate support.
Social media leave boards cold; MEDIA
Respondents have also become more outspoken in their support of UK membership of the EU. More than half say 
that it has a positive effect on business, compared with just one in five last summer. Yet about half still say that a 
Scottish vote for independence would not have a big impact on their business.
The social media result is striking given that some companies have had high-profile failures in this area.
For example, last autumn, an initiative by British Gas, which is owned by FTSE 100 group Centrica, to use its 
Twitter account to promote customer service was greeted by hundreds of tweets pouring scorn on the company's 
decision to raise energy prices ahead of winter.
In the same month, the first Twitter chat from Michael O'Leary , boss of Ryanair, met responses challenging the 
airline's talk about imposing a "fat tax" on passengers
Robert Swannell, chairman of Marks and Spencer, says discussion of social media strategy definitely belongs in the 
boardroom. "Increasingly, it's part of the requirement to be a chief executive that you have someone who is digitally 
savvy," he says.
Sir John Parker, who has chaired several FTSE 100 groups and is chairman of mining group Anglo American, says 
companies in different sectors will regard social media differently.
"If you're in the travel business or certain aspects of retailing, then social media takes on greater importance," he 
says. But, he adds, company websites may be the primary way of engaging with corporate critics, and so in other 
sectors the board might expect to be informed about social media strategy more generally only if there is an abrupt 
change of direction.
But strategists say that companies that see social media merely in terms of reputation and marketing opportunities 
are missing the range of ways in which they might affect business.
Stefan Haefliger, reader in strategic management and innovation at Cass Business School, describes the 
proportion of boards not discussing social media strategy as "shocking".
"There is a lot going on in social media outside companies that they can't ignore, as consumers and stakeholders 
argue and discuss aspects of production and consumption," he says. "It should be the responsibility of the board to 
know that there can be disruptive and challenging forces coming out of that space that they must engage with . . . 
This is an issue for all companies, whether they are consumer-facing or not."
Christer Holloman, who has written the Social Media MBA series of books, says senior executives generally lack 
understanding about social media. "It's very much bigger than Twitter and Facebook," he says. "Companies can 
use social media to engage with technical audiences and develop new products."
He points out that all big public companies are employers and so need to engage with the increasing range of social 
media that allow people to share what the interview process is like at companies and what it is like to work there.
Load-Date: July 13, 2014
End of Document
Too early to celebrate over future of CSeries airliner; Bombardier
Too early to celebrate over future of CSeries airliner; Bombardier
Financial Times (London, England)
July 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - AEROSPACE; Pg. 2
Length: 563 words
Byline: Robert Wright
Body
Two events in the past year at a cargo airport near Montreal could prove decisive to the success or failure of 
Bombardier's CSeries jet.
On September 16 last year, the aircraft - meant to challenge the Airbus and Boeing duopoly in narrow-body jets - 
took off for its maiden flight from Mirabel airport. Participants in the celebrations hailed the craft as "a game-
changer".
Then, on May 29, after a test flight, a serious failure occurred in the engine of a CSeries aircraft on the ground at 
Mirabel. While the aircraft has returned to ground testing after adjustments to its engine - Pratt & Whitney's new 
PurePower engine - the aircraft has yet to return to flight and will not fulfil plans to be at this month's Farnborough 
Air Show.
The challenge for Bombardier is to return the aircraft to flight and secure new buyers. Amid a deluge of orders for 
the products of Bombardier's bigger rivals, orders for the CSeries are growing only slowly .
Cai von Rumohr, analyst at Cowen, the investment bank, shares the widespread scepticism about whether the 
project will finally succeed.
"I think they've got their work cut out for them," he says.
Bombardier continues to be optimistic that the aircraft can reach 300 firm orders by the second half of next year - 
when it starts carrying passengers - from the 203 at present.
Too early to celebrate over future of CSeries airliner; Bombardier
Pierre Beaudoin, Bombardier's chief executive, told analysts in May, before the engine incident, that the company 
was pursuing "quite a few very active campaigns" to win new orders.
"People have been following the programme since the beginning and now are gaining more and more confidence 
with the airplane as the flight test [programme] is progressing," he said.
The problem facing the aircraft goes well beyond the current technical one.
It was designed to target a perceived gap in passenger capacity between regional jets and Boeing's 737 and 
Airbus's A320 family. Regional jets - of which Bombardier is the largest single producer - typically carry fewer than 
100 passengers while the 737 and A320 usually carry a maximum 189 and 180 people respectively.
Because regional jets have grown in size and smaller narrow-body variants - such as Airbus's A319 - can be 
configured for as few as 130 passengers, the gap has turned out to be far smaller than anticipated. The budget 
airlines that are among the biggest buyers of narrow-body jets tend to seek to carry as many people as can safely 
be crammed into a single narrow-body aircraft.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost airline, made it clear when he announced an 
order for 175 Boeing 737-800s in March last year that the 737's 189-passenger capacity made the aircraft more 
attractive than the A320, which carries only nine fewer passengers.
Mr von Rumohr points out that the larger the aircraft grows, the more it competes directly with Boeing and Airbus, 
which have the scale advantages of producing 40 or more of their narrow-body aircraft a month. Rivals such as 
Brazil's Embraer have been wary of straying too far on to the larger players' turf.
But there is the possibility, Mr Rumohr adds, that the CSeries will find such a gap in the market that customers 
order it in large numbers. Boeing's 727 airliner proved to be that kind of surprise success in the past.
However, he says, "I think there's a much greater risk of potentially not doing well with the CSeries."
Robert Wright
Load-Date: July 13, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair app for mobile boarding passes Ryanair App
Ryanair app for mobile boarding passes; Ryanair App
Business World (Digest)
July 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 174 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its new app allowing customers to browse, book, check-in and board.
Body
Ryanair today launched its new app allowing customers to browse, book, check-in and board.
The Ryanair app, which is available to download in both iPhone and Android formats, allows customers to do much 
the same as they can on the Ryanair Website but also allows them to check-in and download mobile boarding 
passes.
In Dublin today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "We're delighted to launch our great new 
Ryanair app today, offering our customers the lowest fares and Europe's biggest route choice in the palm of their 
hand. We've worked hard to develop a product which we're proud of and which will make travelling with Ryanair 
even better and our customers can expect regular app updates that will make it an even more useful travel tool. Our 
'Always Getting Better' programme has delivered better services, more choice and enhanced inflight and digital 
experiences for our customers and we look forward to making further improvements for the 84m people who will fly 
with us this year."
For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 16, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair say not hit by new UK security; Ryanair Security
Ryanair say not hit by new UK security; Ryanair Security
Business World (Digest)
July 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 257 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said its passengers are very unlikely to be subjected to increased airport security 
measures connected to mobile phones and tablets.
Body
Ryanair today said its passengers are very unlikely to be subjected to increased airport security measures 
connected to mobile phones and tablets.
That's despite the fact that the UK government has refused to confirm that the new checks are in place only on 
certain routes.
Last week the UK Department for Transport (DfT) issued tougher guidelines on airport security following advice 
from the US, warning passengers that all electronic devices in hand luggage must be working and charged up, and 
if they could not switch them on for security staff they would not be allowed to take the appliance on the flight.
The DfT said that "for obvious reasons" it would not specify which routes were affected. However, it is widely 
assumed that the only affected flights are to and from the US. Ryanair and easyJet, which do not fly there, 
confirmed the new rules did not apply to all or most of their routes. Easyjet, which flies to Tel Aviv and North Africa, 
as well as through Europe, said it was aware the new regime affected some flights to and from the UK, and it would 
advise passengers "should these include routes operated by easyJet". When asked to confirm that none of the 
airline's routes was affected a spokesman said: "That's correct. No new measures have been applied to our 
passengers." A Ryanair statement said: "Ryanair does not expect that these rules will have any effect on short-haul 
flights within Europe." The airline also operates flights to Morocco, but did not say whether these were involved. For 
more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 15, 2014
Ryanair say not hit by new UK security; Ryanair Security
End of Document
Shannon sees 15pc passenger rise in H1; Shannon Rise
Shannon sees 15pc passenger rise in H1; Shannon Rise
Business World (Digest)
July 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 328 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport recorded a 15pc rise in passenger numbers in the first half of this year compared to the 
same period a year ago as the airport welcomed a number of new air routes.
Body
Shannon Airport recorded a 15pc rise in passenger numbers in the first half of this year compared to the same 
period a year ago as the airport welcomed a number of new air routes.
It clocked up a total of 16 service enhancements, including nine new Ryanair routes, for the summer season.
A break-down of figures revealed at a joint Shannon Airport-Ryanair Travel Clinic in Bunratty to promote the 
airline's winter schedule, complete with five additional services on last year's schedule, shows that passenger 
numbers on European routes have enjoyed a 54pc uplift in the year to date.
The bulk of the increase has been driven by the nine new services - to Munich, Paris, Faro, Warsaw, Krakow, Nice, 
Poitiers, Berlin, Fuerteventura - launched by Ryanair in April. Overall, passenger numbers through the Shannon 
terminal in the first six months of the year were 653,894, up from 568,133 in the same period last year. The 
increase, which is timely in the context of the launch of the Wild Atlantic Way driving route this year, has not just 
been confined to Europe, with UK passengers showing a return to growth after some challenging years with a 5pc 
increase and transatlantic up by 11pc. "We are really happy with the passenger numbers so far this year. We 
worked hard with our airline partners to secure the new services and there has been a really positive response from 
the public," said Shannon Airport Chief Commercial Officer Andrew Murphy: "We have made huge strides this year 
in meeting the demand for services to and from Shannon with the nine new routes for the summer season. We are 
also looking at a better upcoming winter season thanks to the five additional services that Ryanair have announced. 
The significant increases in services are very timely this year with the launch of the Wild Atlantic Way. Shannon is 
the only airport on the route with services from all three key markets, the US, UK and Europe. If Shannon is going 
well, it bodes well for the route."
Shannon sees 15pc passenger rise in H1; Shannon Rise
Load-Date: July 14, 2014
End of Document
Lufthansa plots budget long-haul challenge
Lufthansa plots budget long-haul challenge
Financial Times (London, England)
July 10, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 15
Length: 408 words
Byline: Chris Bryant in Frankfurt
Body
Lufthansa is considering setting up a no-frills long-haul airline as part of a strategic overhaul to head off competition 
from low-cost and Middle East carriers.
Carsten Spohr, chief executive, said the intercontinental service could run on price-sensitive or non-business--
orientated routes such as second-tier China cities and leisure destinations such as the Seychelles.
Lufthansa is weighing up whether to launch the unit on its own or as part of a venture with Turkish Airlines. It said 
talks with Turkish were at an "advanced stage". Flights could begin in winter 2015.
Lufthansa is being squeezed in Europe by low-cost carriers Ryanair and easyJet and on long-haul services by 
Middle Eastern carriers, which are adding routes and investing in alliances with European airlines.
Last month Lufthansa shares fell 20 per cent after it scrapped its 2014 and 2015 operating profit goals because of 
overcapacity on transatlantic routes.
Lufthansa benefited in the past from being a hub carrier, but passengers are increasingly demanding direct point-to-
point services. Private travel is growing faster than business travel.
Lufthansa has a high cost base in Germany, where its pilots and cabin crews have gone on strike in the past over 
pay. This has limited management's ability to adjust structures to new market conditions.
Lufthansa plots budget long-haul challenge
Mr Spohr said: "The global market for air transport continues to grow. But in the dynamic and highly price-sensitive 
segments, our current platforms only enable us to exploit the growth potential to a limited extent, in view of their 
sometimes over-rigid cost structure."
Low-cost short-haul services are well established and the industry hopes a new generation of aircraft will help them 
thrive. In the past, high fuel costs and long turnround times were a barrier.
Norwegian Air Shuttle has begun a no-frills service between the UK and the US, and Ryanair has indicated it could 
offer such a service. But AirAsia X, which had offered no-frills routes from Kuala Lumpur to Europe, halted them in 
2012 because of high fuel costs.
Andrew Light at Citi Research said: "Most low-cost long-haul operations globally have failed, and this operation will 
add to industry capacity."
Damian Brewer at RBC Capital Markets said building a no-frills long-haul operation would be "very challenging".
Lufthansa has resisted joining forces with Middle East competitors. Instead it hopes to expand bilateral 
partnerships, for example with Air China.
Load-Date: July 9, 2014
End of Document
Lufthansa plan long-haul no-frills route; Lufthansa Routes
Lufthansa plan long-haul no-frills route; Lufthansa Routes
Business World (Digest)
July 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 711 words
Highlight: Lufthansa may launch low-cost long-haul flights under a new brand as part of plans by the company's 
new boss to battle competition from Middle East carriers and no-frills airlines.
Body
Lufthansa may launch low-cost long-haul flights under a new brand as part of plans by the company's new boss to 
battle competition from Middle East carriers and no-frills airlines.
The long-haul plan would mark a big shift for the company which prides itself on still being a full-service airline and 
also represents a high-risk route that few others have taken.
The challenges facing Lufthansa, which warned on profit last month, are numerous - Middle East carriers are 
expanding aggressively on long-haul travel, low-cost carriers are gaining customers in short-haul and cargo 
markets are in the doldrums.
The options for CEO Carsten Spohr, who took the reins of Europe's largest airline by revenue in May, were 
expected to include a bigger push into the low-cost arena or a possible alliance with a rival. Under his plans, 
unveiled on Wednesday, Lufthansa will join a low-cost rush to attract leisure travellers with cheaper tickets and no-
frills services, while still keeping its premium namesake brand. "There are markets where we believe that the 
Lufthansa brand is important. In other markets we believe that cost sensitivities are so high, we don't need a full-
service brand," he said, explaining that the market for leisure travel was growing faster than business travel via 
hubs. Spohr's plan is for Lufthansa to expand its European low-cost service and possibly add a new one for long-
haul flights. It could consider offering long-haul flights from Munich or the western German cities of Cologne and 
Duesseldorf, with a premium section for higher paying passengers, using used Boeing 767s or Airbus A330s readily 
available on the market. It is in advanced talks to set up a joint operation with Turkish Airlines, Spohr said, though 
Lufthansa could end up going it alone as well. If Lufthansa's board approves the plans, such flights could start by 
the end of 2015. RBC analyst Damian Brewer said that flying Boeing 767s that have relatively high operating costs 
to compete with carriers such as holiday airline Condor and fast growing rivals would be very challenging. "We think 
the distraction of an ever widening group of airlines and strategies and the increasingly conglomerate like nature of 
Lufthansa plan long-haul no-frills route; Lufthansa Routes
the group (ranging from airlines to IT, catering, maintenance and cargo) will open the way for more focused carriers 
like IAG, Air France-KLM and others outside the EU to take share away," he wrote in a note. Setting up low-cost 
long-haul business is not easy and few have tried it. Low-cost pioneer Ryanair has said it would not attempt it 
because it would need some form of premium or business class seat to make money. Norwegian Air has met 
criticism from rivals and unions for trying to cut staff costs for long-haul flights from Scandinavia. Spohr brushed off 
these concerns, saying: "We have experience in long-haul, we know what will work or won't work." Lufthansa will 
expand its existing European low-cost services under a "Wings" holding group. It is already growing its 
Germanwings brand to take on short-haul traffic within Europe and now plans to expand its Eurowings regional 
airline. Germanwings operates on a cost basis that is 20 percent lower than that of the Lufthansa brand, while 
Eurowings is 20 percent lower than Germanwings, Spohr said. "I think Wings has the potential to become the third 
biggest low-cost point to point airline in Europe." He said three quarters of all intercontinental air travel and 79 
percent of European air travel was for private reasons, rather than business trips. Lufthansa's short-term measures 
to make up for the lower than expected profit in 2014 and 2015 include increasing the number of seats it offers by 
only 2 percent in the winter, rather than 4 percent as originally planned. Spohr said that cost efficiency must 
become a way of life, even when a programme begun by his predecessor Christoph Franz ends next year. Unions, 
which were vocal critics of Franz and repeatedly called strikes during his time as CEO, have so far seemed more 
accommodating to Spohr. "At least this time we were involved in the decision-making process, rather than just 
being presented with measures and told to fall in," Ilja Schulz, head of pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit, told 
Reuters ahead of Spohr's presentation. (Reuters)
Load-Date: July 14, 2014
End of Document
Appetite for Compass wanes with good news reckoned to be in price
Appetite for Compass wanes with good news reckoned to be in price
Financial Times (London, England)
July 9, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: ON LONDON; Pg. 31
Length: 525 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Caterer Compass was among the fallers yesterday as the FTSE 100 showed its biggest decline since March.
Compass has been one of the London market's safest investments, its stock having outperformed the FTSE for 
eight straight years.
But a record high for the stock means all the good news is already in the price, said SocGen.
A trading update from Compass due on July 30 is likely to show similar trends to those earlier in the year, though 
sales growth is likely to be erased by currency movements, the broker told clients.
For the rest of the year, Europe and Japan are improving and emerging-markets growth should help improve 
margins, it said. But with the company on a record-high enterprise valuation of 13.7 times next year's earnings, 
upside looks limited, SocGen concluded. It set an £11 target on the shares, which lost 2.1 per cent to £10.25, after 
a consolidation .
A broad-based sell-off in the wider market led the FTSE 100 lower by 85.06 points to 6,738.45, a 1.3 per cent drop.
Airlines slumped after Air France-KLM warned of overcapacity through the peak summer months.
British Airways owner IAG fell 7 per cent to 355.9p, EasyJet lost 5.8 per cent to £12.48 and Ryanair was down 2.6 
per cent to EUR6.74.
Appetite for Compass wanes with good news reckoned to be in price
A slowdown in mainland Europe meant interim results from SIG missed consensus expectations, sending the 
insulation specialist 9.3 per cent lower at 175p. Sector peers weakened with Grafton down 4.7 per cent to 570p 
and  Wolseley 0.8 per cent lower at £32.25.
Vodafone eased 2.9 per cent to 191.1p after Credit Suisse cut earnings forecasts and reset its price target to 
reflect no chance of a bid.
Ashmore , London's most shorted large-cap stock, fell 2.3 per cent to 351.5p after HSBC downgraded the 
emerging markets bond fund manager to "neutral".
More than 18 per cent of Ashmore's free float is out on loan, up from about 7 per cent at the start of the year, Markit 
data show.
Shire lost 2.6 per cent to £45.30 even after AbbVie sweetened its takeover offer . Traders blamed the drop on an 
equal fall in AbbVie shares and on expectations that Shire will reject the offer in anticipation of a white-knight bidder 
emerging.
Countrywide lost 2.8 per cent to a one-year low of 493.8p after Credit Suisse advised switching into Foxtons, 
which climbed 1.4 per cent to 307p.
"Between 2014 and 2018 we believe Foxtons will double its branch network, deliver annual average EPS growth of 
circa 23 per cent, return 43 per cent of market cap to shareholders in dividends and maintain a net cash position 
throughout," it said. Foxtons climbed 1.4 per cent to 307p.
Greggs slid 5.7 per cent to 532.5p after Troy Asset Management, a disclosable shareholder since 2010, sold its 
entire 5.4 per cent stake.
Internet stocks continued their recent sell-off with Just Eat losing 7.1 per cent to 239.6p and Asos down 3.9 per 
cent to £30.19.
Ocado faded 6.6 per cent to 390.7p but Merrill Lynch restarted coverage overnight with a 540p target price.
Monitise lost 8.6 per cent to 45p on its second profit warning of the year with the mobile banking software provider 
blaming a quicker-than-expected switch among its customers from upfront licences to subscriptions.
Load-Date: July 8, 2014
End of Document
Compass slips amid concerns of limited upside LONDON
Compass slips amid concerns of limited upside; LONDON
Financial Times (London, England)
July 9, 2014 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 19
Length: 357 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Caterer Compass was among the fallers on Tuesday as the FTSE 100 showed its biggest decline since March, 
writes Bryce Elder  .
Compass has been one of the London market's safest investments, its stock outperforming the FTSE for eight 
straight years.
But with the company on a record-high enterprise valuation of 13.7 times next year's earnings, upside looks limited, 
SocGen concluded. It set an £11 target on the shares, which lost 2.1 per cent to £10.25, after a consolidation .
A broad-based sell-off in the wider market led the FTSE 100 lower by 85.06 points to 6,738.45, a 1.3 per cent drop.
Airlines slumped after Air France-KLM warned of overcapacity through the peak summer months.
British Airways owner IAG fell 7 per cent to 355.9p, EasyJet lost 5.8 per cent to £12.48 and Ryanair was down 2.6 
per cent to EUR6.74.
A slowdown in mainland Europe meant interim results from SIG missed consensus expectations, sending the 
insulation specialist 9.3 per cent lower at 175p.
Sector peers weakened with Grafton down 4.7 per cent to 570p and  Wolseley 0.8 per cent lower at £32.25.
Compass slips amid concerns of limited upside LONDON
Vodafone eased 2.9 per cent to 191.1p after Credit Suisse cut earnings forecasts and reset its price target to 
reflect no chance of a bid.
Ashmore , London's most shorted large-cap stock, fell 2.3 per cent to 351.5p after HSBC downgraded the 
emerging markets bond fund manager to "neutral".
Shire lost 2.6 per cent to £45.30 even after AbbVie sweetened its takeover offer . Traders blamed the drop on an 
equal fall in AbbVie shares and on expectations that Shire will reject the offer in anticipation of a white-knight bidder 
emerging.
Countrywide lost 2.8 per cent to a one-year low of 493.8p after Credit Suisse advised switching into Foxtons, 
which climbed 1.4 per cent to 307p.
Greggs slid 5.7 per cent to 532.5p after Troy Asset Management, a disclosable shareholder since 2010, sold its 
entire 5.4 per cent stake in the bakery chain.
Internet stocks continued their recent sell-off with Just Eat losing 7.1 per cent to 239.6p and Asos down 3.9 per 
cent to £30.19.
Ocado faded 6.6 per cent to 390.7p but Merrill Lynch restarted coverage overnight with a 540p target price.
Load-Date: July 8, 2014
End of Document
Long-haul routes hit Air France - KLM earnings TRAVEL & LEISURE
Long-haul routes hit Air France-KLM earnings; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
July 9, 2014 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 14
Length: 456 words
Byline: Andy Sharman
Body
Air France-KLM has revised down its earnings targets for 2014 as the Franco-Dutch carrier continues to struggle 
with overcapacity on its long-haul routes.
The lossmaking airline yesterday said overcapacity on traffic to North America and Asia, according to June figures 
and bookings for July and August, was pushing down air fares.
"This comes on top of the persistently weak cargo demand and the challenging situation in Venezuela," the Paris-
listed group said in a statement, which sent its shares down 6 per cent to EUR8.87.
Air France-KML revised its target for full-year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation from 
about EUR2.5bn to EUR2.2bn-EUR2.3bn - though this would mark a rise of more than 20 per cent compared with 
2013.
The warning comes a month after the German and Irish flag carriers - Lufthansa and Aer Lingus - issued profit 
warnings amid strong competition from Gulf-based and low-cost rivals, and strikes by staff.
Airlines worldwide have also been hit by a sharply rising oil price and its effect on fuel costs following the hostilities 
in Iraq.
Long-haul routes hit Air France - KLM earnings TRAVEL & LEISURE
Carriers from Lufthansa to British Airways have been increasing capacity on transatlantic flights, with the mounting 
competition in the US and Canadian routes curtailing fares.
Capacity is also rising on flights between Europe and Asia, as fast-growing Gulf airlines, such as Emirates, battle 
for passengers.
Air France-KLM's warning extends a difficult recent run for European airline shares. Shares in Lufthansa fell 19 per 
cent in June, while even Ryanair and easyJet, the region's largest low-cost carriers, fell 3.8 per cent and 11 per 
cent in the month.
Analysts at Citi said: "This warning is not entirely surprising given Lufthansa's warning in June for the same reasons 
and the recent 21 per cent decline in Air France-KLM's share price. We expect further restructuring actions to be 
announced later in the year."
Air France-KLM, which employs about 100,000 people, has suffered six consecutive years of losses.
It has had to contend with large fuel bills and fierce competition from low-cost carriers while grappling with a high 
fixed-cost base. The company said it had begun a programme to cut a further 700 cabin crew, having already cut 
1,660 ground staff since October.
In 2013 the airline reported ebitda of EUR1.86bn, though it made an operating profit - the first in three years - of 
EUR130m, compared with a EUR336m loss the previous year.
Gerald Khoo, an analyst at Liberum Capital, said: "Overcapacity is the original sin of the airline industry - too much 
supply for too little demand".
He said volumes were not the problem, per se, because traffic numbers and the load factor - seat occupancy - was 
up. "The issue is, at what price?"
See Lex
Load-Date: July 8, 2014
End of Document
Air France KLM joins European peers to warn of lower earnings
Air France KLM joins European peers to warn of lower earnings
City A.M.
July 9, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 165 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
AIR FRANCE KLM rocked aviation stocks yesterday by warning that a glut of spare seats on its routes would dent 
its profits this year, just weeks after German rival Lufthansa made a similarly gloomy prediction.
The Franco-Dutch airline said that over-capacity on some longhaul routes this summer was dampening ticket and 
cargo prices, prompting the firm to revise down its 2014 earnings forecast from (EURO)2.5bn (£2bn) to between 
(EURO)2.3bn and (EURO)2.2bn.
Shares in Air France fell 8.7 per cent to (EURO)8.58 yesterday, dragging down London-listed peer IAG, which 
declined seven per cent to 335.9p, as well as US rival Delta, whose stock opened almost six per cent lower.
Air France joins a growing list of airlines to blame over-capacity for disappointing performances, following several 
years of growing traffic and favourable fuel prices. Lufthansa has cut its 2014 and 2015 outlook, while low-cost 
carrier Ryanair has slashed prices on some routes to compete, putting pressure on its yields.
Graphic
 
Air France, the first European carrier to use the Airbus A380, blamed spare capacity
Load-Date: July 9, 2014
Air France KLM joins European peers to warn of lower earnings
End of Document
Ryanair Labs open but needs 200 staff; Ryanair Labs
Ryanair Labs open but needs 200 staff; Ryanair Labs
Business World (Digest)
July 7, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 209 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched Ryanair Labs, a digital and IT innovation hub based at its Dublin Office Campus 
in Swords.
Body
Ryanair today launched Ryanair Labs, a digital and IT innovation hub based at its Dublin Office Campus in Swords.
It is looking for some 200 new staff to develop a world class online travel platform.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said:
"Ryanair changed air travel in Europe forever - now we want to change the world of online travel and we're going to 
do that through Ryanair Labs, a state-of-the-art digital innovation hub based at our new Dublin offices. We're 
seeking to hire the best of the best to reimagine the online travel sector. Whether you write code or copy we want 
free thinkers, creatives and people who can not only imagine, but build amazing experiences." "Strategy, 
architecture, design and content will all be done here in Dublin and the work will be used by millions of people. 
We're proud to pay well to make sure we get and keep the best people and Ryanair Labs will offer the perks and 
culture of a start-up without the downsides. We're hiring a range of digital and IT roles and those interested in 
starting an online travel revolution can apply through Labs.Ryanair.com." Ryanair is seeking to fill a range of roles, 
including executive positions, in the areas of software development, data, QA and testing, UX and design and 
media positions.
Load-Date: July 9, 2014
End of Document
easyJet
easyJet
Financial Times (London, England)
July 7, 2014 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 14
Length: 309 words
Body
UK air travellers may have noted the appearance of unidentified flying objects in recent years: low-cost airlines that 
care. One of these is easyJet. Its shares have far outperformed the other main UK lower cost carriers - Ryanair and 
Flybe - up 311 per cent over the past three years, partly due to this shift towards the customer. Compare that with 
just 85 per cent for the MSCI Euro Airlines index. This year, for the first time, Ryanair also appeared on radar 
screens, with lots of promises of good service.
Love is in the air but some analysts on the ground now fret about easyJet's profits. In recent years, the company's 
shareholders became accustomed to positive earnings surprises and upward revisions to forecasts.
Meanwhile, the former sector leader Ryanair - in the midst of rising costs and intensifying competition - had ignored 
service for too long. It lost its way. During 2012-14, easyJet's operating profits leapt over 80 per cent; Ryanair's held 
flat.
But the wind has changed. EasyJet is growing its capacity by 7 per cent in the second half of this year - competitors 
are only growing by 3 per cent. One-third of easyJet's added capacity comes via last year's purchase of FlyBe's 25 
Gatwick slots, a rare opportunity. Bank of America believes all the extra capacity will hit the company's pricing 
power, which in turn will push profits down. The stall in the steady climb of consensus earnings estimates for the 
company suggests other analysts have similar concerns.
Nevertheless, despite noting this added capacity, easyJet does expect price improvement this year; a mark of 
confidence in the underlying strength of air travel demand. Not surprising given healthy UK GDP growth this year. 
easyJet
Its shares - down a quarter from the April peak - have discounted much of the supply concern. Enough waiting at 
the gate for bad news. Look to board.
Load-Date: July 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair appoints new CFO
Ryanair appoints new CFO
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 7, 2014 Monday 12:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 331 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd., an airline company, has announced the appointment of Neil Sorahan as new CFO, 
effective October 1, 2014.
Body
Neil, who is currently Finance Director will take over from current CFO, Howard Millar when he steps down on 31st 
December 2014. Neil, who has worked in Ryanair for almost 12 years, joined as Treasurer in 2003, having 
previously worked in CRH plc for 11 years as Deputy Treasurer. Neil was subsequently promoted to Finance 
Director in June 2006. In this position he has been operating as Howard Millar's Deputy for the last 8 years and has 
been a key leader in Ryanair's Finance Department, having actively managed the treasury function, financial 
reporting, participated in investor roadshows and was recently closely involved in Ryanair's successful debut 
E850m bond offering. Ryanair's executive officer Michael O'Leary said: "We are pleased to have a very strong in-
house replacement for Howard in his deputy, Neil Sorahan. 
Neil has worked with Howard for the past 12 years and has been a key member of the Finance senior management 
team. He will work closely with Howard over the next six months to ensure a smooth transition as Howard departs 
to take up new career challenges. "All of us in Ryanair look forward to working with Neil as he becomes CFO. He 
has a hard act to follow, but as we enter into a 5 year period of renewed growth, with new aircraft deliveries starting 
in September and a rapidly improving customer experience, we all believe that Neil is the right person to fill the void 
left by Howard." Ryanair's Howard Millar said: "I have every confidence in Neil, having recruited and worked closely 
with him over the last 12 years. He has been a pivotal member of the Finance senior management team, with a 
broad range of experience in treasury, financial reporting, taxation, investor relations, and more recently in our 
successful first bond issue. "I am particularly pleased that the time and effort we have invested in developing a very 
strong senior management team will ensure there is a smooth transition of the finance function to Neil over the next 
six months."
Load-Date: July 13, 2014
Ryanair appoints new CFO
End of Document
Classical Notes: Harpists' views sought by Arts Council
Classical Notes: Harpists' views sought by Arts Council
Sunday Business Post
July 6, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AGENDA
Length: 105 words
Body
There is perhaps no symbol of Ireland more visible than the harp -- think of Ryanair, and all those delightful 
Revenue and Dail envelopes that drop through our letter boxes. But according to the Arts Council, there is also an 
increasingly vibrant harp musical scene.
The council is asking harpists north and south, and of all genres, to fill out a questionnaire on their use of this iconic 
instrument. Traditional fiddler and music journalist Toner Quinn has been commissioned to carry out the overall 
report on the sector. The survey is available at surveymonkey.com/s/harpcruit2014. Forms must be filled in by 
Tuesday next, July 8.
Load-Date: July 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 10th cheapest airline in world Ryanair Rank
Ryanair 10th cheapest airline in world; Ryanair Rank
Business World (Digest)
July 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 255 words
Highlight: Ireland's Ryanair has been ranked the tenth cheapest airline in the world.
Body
Ireland's Ryanair has been ranked the tenth cheapest airline in the world.
The global price comparison claims to have found the world's cheapest airline - but have you ever heard of it?
Firefly's average airfare for a one-way ticket is just AUS44 (E30.28), according to research by WhichAirline.com.
The subsidiary of Malaysia Airlines flies domestic routes in Malaysia and short-haul international flights to 
Indonesia, Singapore and Thailand. Four of the top 10 cheapest airlines are from Asia, while another three are from 
Turkey. Ireland's Ryanair, which is often considered one of the cheapest budget airlines, sits in 10th place on the 
list which calculates the average one-way ticket prices excluding any checked luggage. WhichAirline.com 
calculated the average prices given for 3,220,000 flight searches made by its users. But the report has to be taken 
with a grain of salt, as it makes no analysis of the varying distances each carrier covers. Still, if it's a dirt-cheap 
airfare you're after, here are the cheapest low-cost airlines based on their average prices per route (in AUD): 1. 
Firefly (Malaysia) E30.28 2. VivaAerobus (Mexico) E44.73 3. Air Asia (Malaysia) E49.55 4. SpiceJet (India) E51.62 
5. FastJet (Tanzania) E52.99 6. Onur Air (Turkey) E55.06 7. Atlasjet (Turkey) E61.94 8. Tigerair (Singapore) 
E62.63 9. Pegasus Airlines (Turkey) E64.00 10. Ryanair (Ireland) E65.38 11. IndiGo Air (India) E68.13 12. Peach 
(Japan) E69.51 13. Wizz Air (Hungary) E69.51 14. Jetstar (Australia) E77.08 15. Allegiant Air (US) E78.46.
Load-Date: July 9, 2014
End of Document
Airline looks to put budget into long-haul; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Airline looks to put budget into long-haul; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
July 4, 2014 Friday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 17
Length: 777 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: News analysis
Norwegian Air tests market for low-cost flights, one that has not been cracked, writes Jane Wild 
Body
This week red and white passenger jets are attempting a highly challenging feat of aviation at a London airport.
By launching transatlantic flights from Gatwick, Norwegian Air Shuttle is testing the market for what no one has yet 
pulled off: low-cost long-haul flying .
Ever since British entrepreneur Freddie Laker launched a service from London to New York under the SkyTrain 
brand in 1977, airline executives have tried to make low-cost intercontinental flights profitable, but without success.
What will make Norwegian's attempt viable, says Bjørn Kjos, chief executive, is the advent of lightweight, fuel-
efficient aircraft.
Norwegian, which already flies to Bangkok from Oslo and Stockholm, regards the Boeing 787 Dreamliner - which is 
designed to cut fuel consumption by a fifth - as crucial to its plan because fuel accounts for almost half of operating 
costs on long-haul flights.
"We have the right tool," Mr Kjos says. "An aircraft with low-fuel burn and enough range."
Airline looks to put budget into long-haul; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Norwegian also has a network through which it can feed enough passengers to fill its aircraft crossing the Atlantic, 
he says. Forward bookings are strong and Mr Kjos expects aircraft to be more than 90 per cent full, boosting yield.
The airline flies to 25 destinations from its Gatwick base, including the three US routes that are being added - New 
York, LA and Fort Lauderdale.
A return trip to New York in October was priced at £360 including tax, and an extra £35 for luggage, seat allocation 
and meals. The next cheapest fare was offered by Virgin Atlantic at £565.
Given the lucrative market potentially on offer, rivals will be closely watching Norwegian, which has seven 
Dreamliners in its fleet of 96 aircraft and is due to take delivery of 10 more.
Norwegian has a 9 per cent share of the low-cost market in Europe, according to Barclays research.
Also with a keen interest in Norwegian's shot at low-cost long-haul operations is Gatwick, which is making its case 
to be allowed to build another runway. Success by Norwegian would play to the airport's argument that the future is 
point-to-point flying, as new generation aircraft reshape aviation, rather than flying from hub airports, around which 
Heathrow has based its expansion case.
But many in the industry are sceptical about whether Norwegian can pull off low-cost long haul.
"It will be tough to make it work," says Oliver Sleath, analyst at Barclays. "There are structurally higher costs that 
low-cost carriers can't avoid. Fuel expenses, even on a 787, and long-haul passenger taxes, are real barriers.
"The fact that Ryanair hasn't done low-cost long haul speaks volumes."
To cut costs further, Norwegian wants to fly out of a base in Ireland, which offers more favourable tax treatment. But 
domestic US airlines and unions have lobbied against granting it permission to fly from Ireland into the US. They 
argue that a Norwegian airline flying out of Ireland, using cabin crew from Thailand, violates the spirit of the 
permission to fly.
This unresolved battle will be the biggest hurdle for Norwegian, according to analysts.
"There is still a question mark over the regulatory environment, particularly in the US," says Stephen Furlong at 
Davy.
Even if Norwegian resolves its US legal negotiations - and Mr Kjos says he is confident that it will - the same test 
will await it in Asia, where it must be granted approval to fly into each country. Asia is key to Norwegian's strategy, 
and Mr Kjos admits that step will be tougher.
SkyTrain folded eventually after rivals undercut its fares. More recently the Malaysian airline AirAsia X dropped low-
cost flights between London Stansted and Kuala Lumpur because of high fuel costs.
However, Norwegian's transatlantic flights could be good news for travellers, with the prospect of prices dropping as 
competitors try to undercut.
"Norwegian is not going to suddenly be an enormous threat to existing players, but I don't see why they wouldn't 
respond, to test Norwegian's resolve if nothing else," says Jonathan Wober, analyst at the Centre for Aviation.
"Competitors would make a few more lower fares available."
Even if Norwegian cannot find a sustainable way of keeping costs down on its long-haul flights, airlines will 
eventually be successful, analysts say.
"At some point someone is going to find ways around the complicated airline industry restrictions that still exist, in 
order to develop a lower cost model on long haul as well as short haul," says Mr Wober.
Airline looks to put budget into long-haul; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Mr Kjos says he would not be trying unless he thought it would work.
"We don't think this is actually a different type of operation," he says. "It's having high utilisation and a well-run 
operation that is the key element."
Load-Date: July 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair June passenger numbers up 5pc Ryanair PAX
Ryanair June passenger numbers up 5pc; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
July 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 46 words
Highlight: Ryanair this morning said that it carried 5pc more passengers during June compared to the same month 
a year ago.
Body
Ryanair this morning said that it carried 5pc more passengers during June compared to the same month a year 
ago.
Traffic grew by 400,000 to 8.3m customers, it said.
Its load factor, an industry measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, increased 4 points from 84pc to 88pc.
Load-Date: July 8, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair June Traffic Rises 5% - Quick Facts
Ryanair June Traffic Rises 5% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
July 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 128 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) said that its traffic for the month of June 
increased 5% to 8.3 million customers from last year's 7.9 million customers.
Monthly Load Factor grew 4% to 88% from 84% in the same month last year.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said,"Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to 8.3m customers in June, 
thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our great new website, allocated 
seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and PED use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than 
just the lowest fares in every market for our 82.7m customers."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 4, 2014
End of Document
British Airways adds passengers as the summer holidays begin
British Airways adds passengers as the summer holidays begin
City A.M.
July 4, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 171 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
THE SUMMER getaway has got off to a flying start for British Airways' parent company IAG, which yesterday said 
its June passenger numbers were up 8.8 per cent on last year.
The airline carried 7.1m customers worldwide last month, rising from 6.7m in May and 6.6m in the same month a 
year ago.
As the World Cup kicked off in Brazil, IAG said 1.5 per cent fewer passengers flew to Latin America and the 
Caribbean compared to last year, though this is an improvement on its 2.1 per cent year-to-date drop in traffic to the 
region.
Iberia, the struggling Spanish carrier that merged with BA in 2010, delivered a 0.9 per cent increase in June traffic, 
improving its year-todate decline to 0.6 per cent.
Other airlines including Ryanair and EASYJET will report traffic figures today.
The summer rush comes as Norwegian Air launches low-cost transatlantic flights from Gatwick, which will offer one-
way flights for as little as £149.
Gatwick said yesterday the lowcost route underscored the need for a new runway to serve point-topoint flyers.
Graphic
 
British Airways adds passengers as the summer holidays begin
IAG, the Anglo-Spanish owner of British Airways and Iberia, carried 7.1m passengers in June
Load-Date: July 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch new Dublin/Glasgow route Ryanair Flights
Ryanair launch new Dublin/Glasgow route; Ryanair Flights
Business World (Digest)
July 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 152 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched a new Dublin-Glasgow International route (three times daily) as part of its 
extended Dublin winter 2014 schedule.
Body
Ryanair today launched a new Dublin-Glasgow International route (three times daily) as part of its extended Dublin 
winter 2014 schedule.
The new timetable includes eight new routes and increased flights on 21 existing routes to/from Dublin Airport.
This new (3 times daily) Dublin-Glasgow International route will replace Ryanair's current (once daily) Dublin-
Glasgow Prestwick route, which will enable Ryanair to grow traffic from 100,000 to 300,000 p.a. to/from Glasgow, 
and will compliment Ryanair's existing Dublin-Edinburgh route (also three times daily).
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch a new (3 x daily) Dublin-
Glasgow International route as part of our expanded Dublin 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes in total to 
Basel, Bucharest, Cologne, Glasgow, Lisbon, Marrakesh, Nice and Prague, as well as increased frequencies on 21 
other business routes."
Load-Date: July 7, 2014
End of Document
Millar to step down from Ryanair
Millar to step down from Ryanair
AirFinance Journal
July 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,PEOPLE NEWS,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 244 words
Highlight: Ryanair's deputy CEO & CFO, Howard Millar to resign from the airline.
Body
Ryanair's deputy CEO & CFO, Howard Millar, has decided to step down as a full time executive at the airline to 
"pursue other career opportunities" according to statement from the low-cost carrier.
Millar  will step down in December 2014 following 23 years at the airline and will join Ryanair's board as a non-
executive director in mid-2015.
He joined Ryanair as a financial controller in April 1992, and was promoted to finance director in 1993, and 
appointed CFO and deputy CFO in January 2003.
Millar played a key role with  Ryanair's transition from a loss making regional carrier to Europe's largest airline. He 
oversaw the airlne's 1997 IPO, its subsequent 530 new aircraft orders and related financings, and most recently its 
debut EUR850 million bond issue.
Millar was awarded Airfinance Journal's Lifetime Achievement Award by in 2012.
Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary comments: "I sincerely thank Howard for his enormous contribution to Ryanair's 
successful growth over the last 23 years. He has been a pioneer in the development of low fare air travel in Europe, 
as well as in aircraft financing, commodity risk and fuel management, IT systems and treasury fields of the aviation 
industry.
"While he will be greatly missed, he has over the years developed an excellent senior management team in 
Finance, and his replacement (via internal promotion) will be announced later this morning to facilitate a smooth 
transition."
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 21, 2014
End of Document
Analysis: Iraq 's woes crush Wizz Air's IPO plans
Analysis: Iraq's woes crush Wizz Air's IPO plans
AirFinance Journal
July 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: EUROPE,AIRLINES,ANALYSIS
Length: 599 words
Highlight: Oil price volatility has tripped up Wizz Air's IPO ambitions and caused European airline stocks to tumble. 
Dickon Harris reviews the recent impact of higher oil prices in the airline sector.
Body
June was a tough month for Wizz Air's treasury team. After several weeks of an investor road show, the Hungarian-
based low-cost carrier pulled out of its initial public offering (IPO) road show. Wizz has kept fairly tight-lipped about 
why it decided to cancel its IPO. In a statement, the airline cited "current market volatility in the airline sector", and 
has declined to add much detail.
Wizz Air announced the IPO in May 2014 and was expected to raise $200 million. Analysts, speaking to Airfinance 
Journal, say the low-cost carrier cancelled its planned listing thanks to a double whammy of a surprise profit 
warning by Lufthansa, as well as oil fuel prices hikes due to the continuing crisis in Iraq.
At the start of June Lufthansa announced its operating profit could drop by as much as one-third, to &#8364;1 billion 
($1.4 billion) for 2014, in contrast to its earlier forecast of between â,¬1.3 billion and â,¬1.5 billion. The carrier had 
stated that its passenger and cargo revenues had been below expectations, and its profits had been affected by 
labour strikes.
This is not the first time the airline's IPO ambitions have been punished by a disappointing set of financials from of a 
rival. In the third quarter of 2013 the airline also pulled an IPO attempt after a Ryanair profit warning. In the end 
Wizz cancelled its listings because it was worried about the final valuation it would get.
The airline's core of potential investors will understand this move, to a point. Nobody wants to see a failed IPO 
launched &shy;"" ultimately the initial stakeholders will want to maximize their return and so will wait for a better 
opportunity. However, it is an open question as to how long Wizz will leave it before it decides to return to the IPO 
market again.
Oil price volatility
Wizz's failed IPO is a dramatic reminder of how vulnerable the airline sector, as a whole, is to external shocks.
At the start of June when Brent crude oil prices spiked to $113.22 a barrel, US airline stocks for Alaska, America, 
Delta, United, JetBlue and Southwest fell by about 4% to 5%. Many of these share prices have subsequently 
recovered, and US airline shares are considerably higher than they were a year ago. However, the violence in Iraq 
Analysis: Iraq 's woes crush Wizz Air's IPO plans
brought a dramatic increase in the price of Brent crude oil, which rose to $115 a barrel, a nine-month high, around 
June 10.
Fighting in the North of Iraq has already closed down the country's largest oil refinery, the Baiji refinery, but the bulk 
of the country's refineries are in the South, which is still far away from the Isis insurgents. Immediate fears over the 
price of oil have calmed, resulting in lowering the price of Brent, which was trading at about $103 a barrel at the 
start of July.
HSBC analyst Andrew Lobbenberg predicts that a $5 a barrel increase in the spot crude price could slash some 
European airline profits by anywhere between 1% and 52%. Norwegian's minimal fuel hedging leaves it "highly 
exposed" and it could see a 54% drop in expected profits if the $5 a barrel rise occurs. Other affected airlines 
include Finnair, whose profits could drop 30%, SAS, which could see a 27% fall in profits, and Air France-KLM, 
which could see a 10% decline.
European airlines rely more heavily on fuel hedging than their Asian and US counterparts. The bulk of their 2014 
fuel requirements are already hedged by about 70%. If the violence spreads in Iraq it will be interesting to see 
whether carriers, such as American Airlines, which have stayed away from fuel hedging in recent times, will be 
tempted to change their philosophy.
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 21, 2014
End of Document
O'Leary not weary
O'Leary not weary
Financial Times (London, England)
July 1, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 16
Length: 245 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
Michael O'Leary is synonymous with Ryanair. He also personifies the aggressive culture that has weakened the 
brand of the low-cost airline. The replacement of chief financial officer Howard Millar has thus been interpreted as 
evidence of regime change. Mr O'Leary could be next.
Not a bad little theory. Mr Millar was one of three men central to Ryanair's noughties expansion. The other was 
Michael Cawley, chief operating officer. He left in March.
An executive begs to disagree with the three green bottles hypothesis. "The only way Michael [O'Leary] is leaving 
here is in a pine box," he says. Messrs Millar and Cawley shared the job of deputy chief executive. They quit that 
successor's role recognising there would be no vacancy, it seems.
That leaves Mr O'Leary to refresh Ryanair's proposition with help from such recent recruits as chief marketing 
officer Kenny Jacobs. Mr O'Leary gurns for the camera. Mr Jacobs grins.
Ryanair serves different routes, but aspires to be more like easyJet, whose shares have beaten its own by 97 per 
cent over two years. This means allocated seating, airports in the same time zones as destination cities and service 
delivered with a smile rather than bile.
O'Leary not weary
The branding challenge is for Mr O'Leary to lose the habit of a lifetime and stop mouthing off. A recent quip to 
British MPs about making love to the Queen showed that will be a struggle. Dissimulation is a useful business skill. 
Not everyone can manage it.
 
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Finance chief to depart as Ryanair revamps offering TRAVEL & LEISURE
Finance chief to depart as Ryanair revamps offering; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
July 1, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 518 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Highlight: Millar has been key O'Leary lieutenant
Second senior exit in past few months
Body
Howard Millar, the chief financial officer of Ryanair, is to step down at the end of the year, becoming the second 
senior executive to depart in the past few months.
His decision comes as Europe's biggest low-cost airline by revenue seeks to fashion a more mainstream image to 
woo passengers.
Mr Millar has been CFO and deputy chief executive since 2003.
He has been at Ryanair for 23 years as a member of the executive team that built it from a lossmaking regional 
carrier into one of the world's biggest airlines.
His retirement follows the departure earlier this year of Michael Cawley, chief commercial officer and deputy chief 
executive.
He and Mr Millar were regarded as lieutenants to Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's hard-charging chief executive, in the 
airline's rise to become a favourite of investors since it listed in 1997.
Finance chief to depart as Ryanair revamps offering TRAVEL & LEISURE
"I guess myself and the two Michaels worked together as a team to build Ryanair into what it is today," Mr Millar 
said. "When we started out the flag carriers were in the ascendant, there was very heavy state control and air fares 
were extremely high. I take great pride in having played a part in making air fares affordable for all."
Mr O'Leary said Mr Millar "has been a pioneer in the development of low-fare air travel in Europe, as well as in 
aircraft financing, commodity risk and fuel management, IT systems and treasury fields of the aviation industry".
Mr Millar will step down on December 31 and is to be succeeded as CFO from October 1 by Neil Sorahan, currently 
Ryanair's finance director.
The new CFO joined the airline as treasurer in 2003 from CRH, the building materials group. "He has a hard act to 
follow," Mr O'Leary said.
Mr Millar said Mr Sorahan's elevation demonstrated "the time and effort we have invested in developing a very 
strong senior management team [that] will ensure there is a smooth transition of the finance function to Neil over 
the next six months".
The departure of Mr Millar, 52, will again raise the issue of whether and when Mr O'Leary will bow out. Analysts in 
Dublin said the departures of Mr Millar and Mr Cawley did not necessarily offer any pointers to his continued 
commitment to Ryanair. They said the airline had almost no executive turnover at the very top since its stock 
market listing.
However, as one analyst pointed out, "Ryanair had two deputy chief executives six months ago and now it has 
none." That meant that Mr O'Leary no longer had a counterweight at the top - a role that Mr Millar is considered to 
have played as CFO. Mr O'Leary now faces the challenge of refashioning Ryanair as a more customer-friendly 
airline without his two lieutenants.
Mr Millar added: "I don't think [Mr O'Leary] is going anywhere. He told me in 1993-94 that he might leave after a 
year and he is still here. We all know he is going to be around for quite some time."
Mr Millar will join the Ryanair board next year and said he "will look at all opportunities" for what to do next.
Mr Sorahan takes over the finance at a tough time. In May, the airline reported an 8 per cent fall in net income for 
2013-14, its first decline in five years.
See Lombard
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair finance head is second deputy chief to depart this year
Ryanair finance head is second deputy chief to depart this year
City A.M.
July 1, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 151 words
Byline: JENNY FORSYTH
Body
RYANAIR'S finance chief Howard Millar is leaving the airline after 23 years, becoming the second deputy chief 
executive to quit the low-cost carrier in a year.
Millar, 53, is leaving in December "to pursue other career activities", a statement from Ryanair said yesterday. 
However he is not cutting all ties, as he will become a non-executive director.
He follows in the footsteps of former deputy chief executive Michael Cawley, who left Ryanair earlier this year after 
17 years. Chief executive Michael O'Leary has said he has no plans to leave.
Millar's deputy, finance director Neil Sorahan, is set to take over as CFO at the end of the year.
It was a day of high drama for the airline yesterday, as two of its jets collided at Stansted Airport.
At around 6.45am the wing-tip of one Boeing 737-800 clipped the tailcone of www.another.No one was injured and 
the Air Accident Investigation Board is investigating.
Graphic
 
Howard Millar will leave Ryanair in December, to be replaced by his deputy Neil Sorahan
Ryanair finance head is second deputy chief to depart this year
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair second in command to step down Ryanair CFO
Ryanair second in command to step down; Ryanair CFO
Business World (Digest)
June 30, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 488 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that Howard Millar, the airline's Deputy CEO and CFO, has decided to step down as 
a full time executive in December.
Body
Ryanair today said that Howard Millar, the airline's Deputy CEO and CFO, has decided to step down as a full time 
executive in December.
Neil Sorahan, who has been in Ryaanir for 12 year, will take over as CFO from October 1.
Having joined Ryanair as Financial Controller in April 1992, he was promoted to Finance Director in 1993, and 
appointed CFO and Deputy CFO in January 2003.
Mr Millar has played a leading role in the successful development of Ryanair into Europe's largest airline, growing 
from less than 1m to over 80m passengers p.a. and was a pivotal figure in many of the airlines key developments, 
including the transformation from a loss making regional carrier, to Europe's first and most successful low fares 
airline, its 1997 IPO, its subsequent 530 new aircraft orders and related financings, and most recently its very 
successful debut E850m Bond issue, the airline said. Chairman David Bonderman has invited Mr Millar to join the 
Board of Ryanair as a Non-Executive Director in mid-2015, some six months after he steps down as a full-time 
executive and Howard has accepted this offer. Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "I sincerely thank Howard for his 
enormous contribution to Ryanair's successful growth over the last 23 years. He has been a pioneer in the 
development of low fare air travel in Europe, as well as in aircraft financing, commodity risk and fuel management, 
IT systems and treasury fields of the aviation industry. While he will be greatly missed, he has over the years 
developed an excellent senior management team in Finance, and his replacement (via internal promotion) will be 
announced later this morning to facilitate a smooth transition." "Although sorry to lose Howard as a senior 
executive, I'm pleased that he has agreed to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director from mid 2015, where he 
will continue to offer insight, guidance and wise counsel to the airline as we grow from 85m to over 110m over the 
next 5 years." Ryanair's Howard Millar said: "It has been an absolute honour to have played a central role in the 
building of Ryanair into Europe's largest airline over the last 23 years and in the process to have enabled hundreds 
Ryanair second in command to step down Ryanair CFO
of millions of customers to enjoy the benefits of low fare air travel. I have thoroughly enjoyed working with Michael 
and the hugely talented team at Ryanair over that period to create a unique and successful business model which 
has seen traffic grow from less than 1m to over 80m p.a. I am very pleased to accept our Chairman, David 
Bonderman's invitation to join the Board in mid 2015, and look forward to working with the Board to guide Ryanair in 
its next phase of profitable growth to over 110m passengers p.a. in 2019. As I leave Ryanair as a full-time executive 
from December next, I look forward to new career opportunities and challenges, and am confident that my 
successor and the Ryanair team will continue to drive the business forward."
Load-Date: July 2, 2014
End of Document
UK Market Marginally Lower, Mecom Surges On Deal
UK Market Marginally Lower, Mecom Surges On Deal
RTT News (United States)
June 30, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 419 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market is fractionally lower on Monday, as German retail sales fell unexpectedly in May from 
the prior month and most major markets across the region languished in the red. While the Asian stocks closed 
mixed, the U.S. futures indicate a cautious open.
Official data from Destatis revealed that retail sales were down 0.6 percent month-on-month in May, but slower than 
the 1.5 percent drop seen in April. This was the second consecutive fall in sales. Economists had forecast a 0.8 
percent rise in turnover in May.
Eurozone inflation remained stable at 0.5 percent in June, flash estimate from Eurostat showed. It was forecast to 
rise slightly to 0.6 percent. Inflation has been below the European Central Bank's target of 'below, but close to 2 
percent' for the seventeenth consecutive month.
U.K. mortgage approvals declined for the fourth consecutive month in May, data from the Bank of England showed. 
The number of loans approved for house purchases fell to 61,707 in May, the lowest since June 2013, from 62,806 
in April. Approvals were forecast to fall to 61,600.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is adding 0.12 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.09 percent.
The FTSE 100 index is losing 0.02 percent.
easyJet is declining 5 percent. Merrill Lynch cut the stock to ''Underperform'' from ''Neutral.''
Ryanair, which announced a new CFO, was upgraded to ''Neutral'' from ''Underperform.'' The stock is moderately 
down.
Sports Direct is losing 2.7 percent after confirming that it is not considering an offer for footwear retailer OFFICE.
Mecom Group gained 33 percent after the UK-based media company agreed to be acquired by Belgium-based 
media firm De Persgroep N.V. in a 196 million pounds deal.
The Asian stocks closed mixed on the day. While Wall Street's resilient rebound last Friday provided 
encouragement, traders exercised restraint, given the recent run up of the markets.
UK Market Marginally Lower, Mecom Surges On Deal
In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks posted modest gains, as 
investors digested mixed earnings news and a survey showing improvement in consumer sentiment in June. The 
Dow edged up marginally, the Nasdaq advanced 0.4 percent and the S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent.
Crude for August delivery is losing $0.40 to $105.34 per barrel, while gold is falling $5.5 to $1314.5 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
European Markets Mostly Down, EasyJet Drops On Downgrade
European Markets Mostly Down, EasyJet Drops On Downgrade
RTT News (United States)
June 30, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 615 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are mostly lower on Monday, as German retail sales fell unexpectedly in May 
from the prior month. While the Asian stocks closed mixed, the U.S. futures indicate a weak open.
Official data from Destatis revealed that retail sales were down 0.6 percent month-on-month in May, but slower than 
the 1.5 percent drop seen in April. This was the second consecutive fall in sales. Economists had forecast a 0.8 
percent rise in turnover in May.
Eurozone inflation remained stable at 0.5 percent in June, flash estimate from Eurostat showed. It was forecast to 
rise slightly to 0.6 percent. Inflation has been below the European Central Bank's target of 'below, but close to 2 
percent' for the seventeenth consecutive month.
U.K. mortgage approvals declined for the fourth consecutive month in May, data from the Bank of England showed. 
The number of loans approved for house purchases fell to 61,707 in May, the lowest since June 2013, from 62,806 
in April. Approvals were forecast to fall to 61,600.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is losing 0.30 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is falling 0.15 percent.
While the German DAX is up 0.14 percent, the French CAC 40 and the UK's FTSE 100 are modestly lower. 
Switzerland's SMI is unchanged with a negative bias.
In Frankfurt, Bayer is gaining 1.3 percent and BASF is up 1.2 percent. Privately-held Swiss chemical company 
Ineos Group said it would acquire BASF's 50 percent share in Styrolution, a joint venture between the companies, 
for 1.1 billion euros.
JPMorgan raised Osram to ''Neutral'' from ''Underweight.'' The stock is gaining nearly 4 percent.
Carl Zeiss Meditec is climbing 4.7 percent. Berenberg raised the stock to ''Buy'' from ''Hold.''
In Paris, BNP Paribas is marginally lower, amid a report that the lender is looking to plead guilty to criminal charges 
of violating U.S. sanctions.
Credit Agricole and Societe Generale are losing 2.4 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively.
In London, easyJet is declining 5 percent. Merrill Lynch cut the stock to ''Underperform'' from ''Neutral.''
European Markets Mostly Down, EasyJet Drops On Downgrade
Ryanair, which announced a new CFO, was upgraded to ''Neutral'' from ''Underperform.'' The stock is moderately 
down.
Sports Direct is losing 2.7 percent after confirming that it is not considering an offer for footwear retailer OFFICE.
Mecom Group gained 33 percent after the UK-based media company agreed to be acquired by Belgium-based 
media firm De Persgroep N.V. in a 196 million pounds deal.
Philips is up 3 percent in Amsterdam. The company will merge its Lumileds LED components and automotive 
lighting business into a subsidiary and would be exploring strategic options for the same, including a possible spin-
off.
Vestas Wind Systems is gaining 4.3 percent in Copenhagen. The company announced new orders from EDF.
H. Lundbeck, which said a late-stage study did not meet the primary endpoint, is declining around 7 percent in 
Copenhagen.
The Asian stocks closed mixed on the day. While Wall Street's resilient rebound last Friday provided 
encouragement, traders exercised restraint, given the recent run up of the markets.
In the U.S., futures point to a negative open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks posted modest gains, as 
investors digested mixed earnings news and a survey showing improvement in consumer sentiment in June. The 
Dow edged up marginally, the Nasdaq advanced 0.4 percent and the S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent.
Crude for August delivery is losing $0.44 to $105.30 per barrel, while gold is falling $5.7 to $1314.3 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Appoints Neil Sorahan To Succeed Howard Millar As CFO
Ryanair Appoints Neil Sorahan To Succeed Howard Millar As CFO
RTT News (United States)
June 30, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 341 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) Monday announced the appointment of 
Neil Sorahan as Chief Financial Officer with effect from October 1. Sorahan, who is currently Finance Director, will 
take over from current CFO Howard Millar when he steps down on December 31. Millar, also the airline's Deputy 
Chief Executive Officer, has decided to step down as a full time executive after 23 years to pursue other career 
opportunities.
Citing Millar's enormous contribution to the development of Ryanair, Chairman David Bonderman has invited him to 
join the Board of Ryanair as a Non-Executive Director by mid-2015, and Millar has accepted this offer.
The Europe's largest passenger airline noted that Millar has played a leading role in the successful development of 
the company into Europe's largest airline, growing to over 80 million passengers p.a. from less than 1 million 
passengers.
The new CFO Sorahan joined Ryanair as Treasurer in 2003, having previously worked in CRH plc for 11 years as 
Deputy Treasurer. He was subsequently promoted to Finance Director in June 2006. For the last eight year, he has 
been operating as Millar's Deputy.
The company added that Sorahan will work closely with Millar over the next six months to ensure a smooth 
transition.
Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said, "Neil has worked with Howard for the past 12 years and has been a key member of 
the Finance senior management team... He has a hard act to follow, but as we enter into a 5 year period of 
renewed growth, with new aircraft deliveries starting in September and a rapidly improving customer experience, we 
all believe that Neil is the right person to fill the void left by Howard."
Millar joined Ryanair as Financial Controller in April 1992, was promoted to Finance Director in 1993, and appointed 
CFO and Deputy CEO in January 2003.
In London, Ryanair shares are currently trading at 6.91 euros, down 0.04 euros or 0.53 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Ryanair Appoints Neil Sorahan To Succeed Howard Millar As CFO
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Flat After Tame Inflation Report
European Stocks Flat After Tame Inflation Report
RTT News (United States)
June 30, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 346 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks were narrowly mixed for a second day in a row Monday, as another tame inflation 
report kept investors guessing about further stimulus from the European Central Bank.
Eurozone inflation remained stable at 0.5 percent in June, flash estimate from Eurostat showed.
It was forecast to rise slightly to 0.6 percent. Inflation has been below the European Central Bank's target of 'below, 
but close to 2 percent' for the seventeenth consecutive month.
Meawhile, German retail sales fell unexpectedly in May from the prior month.
Official data from Destatis revealed that retail sales were down 0.6 percent month-on-month in May. This was the 
second consecutive fall in sales. Economists had forecast a 0.8 percent rise in turnover in May.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks inched up 0.24 percent. Around Europe, the German DAX 
added 0.3 percent, the French CAC 40 eased 0.08 percent and the UK's FTSE 100 was virtually unchanged.
BASF added 0.5 percent. Privately-held Swiss chemical company Ineos Group said it would acquire BASF's 50 
percent share in Styrolution, a joint venture between the companies, for 1.1 billion euros.
easyJet lost 6.5 percent. Merrill Lynch cut the stock to ''Underperform'' from ''Neutral.''
Ryanair, which announced a new CFO, was upgraded to ''Neutral'' from ''Underperform.'' The stock was moderately 
down.
Sports Direct lost 2.7 percent after confirming that it is not considering an offer for footwear retailer OFFICE.
BNP Paribas was flat amid reports the French bank will pay nearly $9 billion to the U.S. in a settlement for allegedly 
engaging in transactions with sanctioned countries.
Philips was up 4.5 percent in Amsterdam. The company will merge its Lumileds LED components and automotive 
lighting business into a subsidiary and would be exploring strategic options for the same, including a possible spin-
off.
Vestas Wind Systems rose 2.8 percent in Copenhagen. The company announced new orders from EDF.
European Stocks Flat After Tame Inflation Report
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair : Howard Millar To Step Down In December; Names Neil Sorahan CFO
Ryanair: Howard Millar To Step Down In December; Names Neil Sorahan 
CFO
RTT News (United States)
June 30, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 135 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY), Europe's largest passenger airline, announced that Howard 
Millar, the airline's Deputy CEO & CFO, has decided to step down as a full time executive in December 2014, to 
pursue other career opportunities. The company announced the appointment of Neil Sorahan, who is currently 
Finance Director, as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1st October 2014.
David Bonderman, Chairman of Ryanair, has invited Howard to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director in mid-
2015, and Howard has accepted the offer.
Neil, who has worked in Ryanair for almost 12 years, joined as Treasurer in 2003, having previously worked in CRH 
plc for 11 years as Deputy Treasurer.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Cork : Cork Airport aims to take flight
Cork: Cork Airport aims to take flight
Sunday Business Post
June 29, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMERCIAL REPORTS
Length: 984 words
Body
Management at Cork Airport are implementing plans to make the air hub more attractive to passengers, both 
inbound and outbound.
   Cork Airport has significant strengths from an operational perspective,   said Niall MacCarthy, the airport's 
director.
   It has a modern terminal infrastructure, a loyal and supportive catchment area with strong regional economic 
fundamentals, operationally it is very well-run with world leading passenger satisfaction levels and high levels of on-
time departure for airlines
Passenger traffic at the airport fell by 3.5 per cent last year, compared to 2012. In total, 2.3 million passengers used 
the airport in 2013 - the year of    the Gathering  .
Projections for this year appear to offer few signs of a significant increase as yet.
   In 2014, we expect to serve similar passenger numbers as last year with a view to growing our traffic from 2015 
and returning to 2.8 million passengers over the lifespan of our four-year strategic plan   MacCarthy told The 
Sunday Business Post.
While Cork Airport is still loss-making, those losses are narrowing, thanks largely to the business improvement plan. 
The ship, it seems, has been steadied.
Minister for Transport Leo Varadkar, in recent discussions regarding the prospect of Cork Airport becoming 
independent of the Dublin Airport Authority (DAA), said its finances were not yet healthy enough to follow the way of 
Shannon Airport.
   If Cork Airport secured its independence now, the airport would immediately be loss-making,   MacCarthy said.
Cork : Cork Airport aims to take flight
   Unlike Shannon Airport, Cork Airport's operating costs substantially exceed its revenues. We need more people 
to visit Cork. Unfortunately, it is largely an outbound airport. To operate on a commercial basis it would require 
significant redundancies and or pay cuts, which nobody is proposing.  
A significant restructuring operation recently undertaken included a voluntary severance programme and more 
flexible working arrangements, aimed at improving operating efficiency and cutting costs.
**What's new?**
In the latter half of 2013, Ryanair launched a new service from Cork to the East Midlands airport in Britain.
Aer Lingus Regional increased the frequency on key British provincial routes to Manchester and Birmingham, from 
double daily to three times daily flights on selected days.
A new Aer Lingus Regional route to Newcastle was launched in March for summer 2014 as part of a significant 
expansion project by the regional carrier.
Aer Lingus Regional, operated by Stobart Air, saw passenger numbers on Cork routes increase by 11 per cent in 
May, compared to the same month last year.
A EUR 2.4 million investment to upgrade Cork Airport's baggage security screening system in line with the latest 
EU standards was secured, and a new advertising campaign - Closer to Home - has just been launched at a cost of 
EUR 100,000.
   Cork Airport is very important in terms of connectivity for the businesses and the multinational sector in Munster 
and has a vital role to play in facilitating and developing the inbound tourism sector in the region,   said Kevin 
Cullinane, head of communications at Cork Airport.
   The advertising campaign is designed to drive awareness, of the airport's offering, across the whole of Munster 
and make the south of Ireland catchment area aware of the benefits and choice when you fly from Cork.  
**Transatlantic flight service**
Speak to any business leader in the city and county and the issue of direct US flights will crop up in the 
conversation.
For years, the prospect has been discussed, but with limited progress.
Tourism and business chiefs believe a transatlantic service at Cork Airport could have an immense impact on the 
local and regional economy, and Innovation Minister Sean Sherlock confirmed recently that there was no regulatory 
impediment to a transatlantic route out of Cork.
For now, however, there are no short-term plans to start operating a route across the Atlantic.
   Direct transatlantic connectivity remains a medium-term objective, which would be a major catalyst to the 
economic and tourism development of the region we serve   said Niall MacCarthy.
**Re-establishing the Cork-Dublin route**
Though separated by more than 250 kilometres of road, there is no flight connection between Dublin and Cork.
In October 2011, Ryanair decided to stop its Dublin-Cork service, citing fewer passengers on the Cork service due 
to improved motorway access and what it called    excessive   DAA charges at both Dublin and Cork Airports.
Many in Cork believe the lack of an air-link is a serious drawback from both the tourism and business perspectives.
MacCarthy told The Sunday Business Post that the prospect of re-establishing the route was on his to-do list.
Cork : Cork Airport aims to take flight
   We are constantly engaged with current and potential airline customers with a view to growing the range of 
destinations served direct from Cork Airport,   he said.
   The restoration of a Cork-Dublin route to feed long-haul connectivity at Dublin Airport is something we have been 
actively pursuing and pitching to airlines.  
**So where can you escape to from Cork Airport?**
Now with five scheduled airlines, Aer Lingus, Aer Lingus Regional, Ryanair, Jet2.com and Wizz Air, Cork Airport 
services more than 50 destinations across Europe.
These include European capitals such as London, Paris, Amsterdam, Berlin, Rome, Vilnius and Lisbon. Sun spots 
such as Alicante, Malaga, Faro, Lanzarote and Tenerife are also popular destinations during the year.
**Service with a smile**
In 2013 Cork Airport placed first for overall customer satisfaction in a worldwide industry poll.
The Airport Service Quality (ASQ) Regional Survey of passengers measures customer satisfaction across eight 
categories in 61 regional airports right across the world.
Cork Airport scored highest of all the airports as the world's best regional airport for customer service, for both 
business and leisure travellers.
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Air traffic control chiefs' bonuses cut after glitch; SUPPORT SERVICES
Air traffic control chiefs' bonuses cut after glitch; SUPPORT SERVICES
Financial Times (London, England)
June 28, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 18
Length: 357 words
Byline: Andrew Parker
Body
Top managers at NATS, the UK air traffic control service, have had their bonuses docked after hundreds of flights 
were delayed or cancelled in December because of a computer failure at the company.
NATS' annual report, published yesterday, revealed that Richard Deakin, chief executive, and six other senior 
managers had their bonuses cut by 12 per cent partly because of the computer problem in December.
However, Mr Deakin's remuneration rose 46 per cent to £1.1m in 2013-14, primarily because of a £325,000 cash 
payout under the company's long-term incentive plan for executives.
The December 7 computer failure cost NATS a total of £7.4m in penalties and "lost incentives" - the latter a 
reference to how the company forfeited the right to increase charges paid to it by airlines for air traffic control 
services.
The computer failure - in which air traffic controllers had difficulty switching from night to daytime operations at 
NATS' centre at Swanwick, Hampshire - unleashed disruption at airports across the UK, including Heathrow, 
Gatwick, Stansted, Luton, Birmingham, Cardiff and Glasgow.
About 300 flights were cancelled over two days and 1,400 suffered delays. Airlines led by Ryanair complained 
about chaos for passengers, and NATS issued an immediate apology.
Air traffic control chiefs' bonuses cut after glitch; SUPPORT SERVICES
Writing in the annual report, Mr Deakin said the incident caused NATS to fall short of some of its performance 
targets set by the Civil Aviation Authority, the main aviation regulator, although he stressed that 90 per cent of 
flights were able to operate - albeit with significant delays.
He added that despite the incident, NATS' overall performance in 2013-14 was "very good", with delay per flight 
attributable to the company being 5.5 seconds, or about a fifth of the European average.
NATS said an investigation into the incident found that although "staff immediately involved in rectifying the problem 
complied with established procedures, there were some learning points for the organisation about reducing the risks 
of similar levels of disruption in similar types of events".
NATS reported revenue of £917.6m for the year to March 31, up 2 per cent compared with 2012-13.
Load-Date: June 27, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus agree E191m to end dispute A Lingus Row
Aer Lingus agree E191m to end dispute; A Lingus Row
Business World (Digest)
June 27, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 361 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus this morning said that it has reluctantly agreed to a compromise deal to end the protracted 
and damaging row with staff over pensions but said it will cost the company E191m.
Body
Aer Lingus this morning said that it has reluctantly agreed to a compromise deal to end the protracted and 
damaging row with staff over pensions but said it will cost the company E191m.
The agreement will see the airline increase payment to E146m is for the current scheme and a further payment of 
E44m, up from E30m, for deferred members.
Aer Lingus Chief Executive Officer, Christoph Mueller said that the solution recommended by the Expert Panel - 
comprising the airline, the unions, IBEC and the Government - involves a significant increase in payments from the 
Company.
"Aer Lingus and the Company reluctantly accept the recommendations of the Expert Panel as the only solution that 
is capable of acceptance by all the parties. Implementation of the solution will be very complex and will require a 
concerted effort by all of the parties. A significantly improved industrial relations environment is also a key 
requirement and a functioning internal dispute resolution mechanism must be established for this purpose. We 
strongly encourage all parties to work collaboratively to achieve these goals," he said. "The aggregate effect of the 
variations recommended by the Expert Panel and discussed with the IASS Trustee is to increase the total once-off 
payment to be made by the company from E140m to approximately E191m, in addition to implementation costs," 
Aer Lingus said in a statement. "Aer Lingus reluctantly accept the increase in payment recommended by the Expert 
Panel on the basis that the panel's report represents a full and final solution capable of acceptance by all the parties 
and would definitively address the funding issues in the IASS," the company said in a statement. "In addition, the 
recommendations would place pension provision for current and former employees on a significantly improved and 
more stable footing than would otherwise be the case if the Scheme were to be wound up in the absence of an 
agreed solution," it added. Aer Lingus said it will enter talks with ICTU and trade unions on the recommendations 
Aer Lingus agree E191m to end dispute A Lingus Row
before it seeks shareholder approval but, according to reports, Ryanair, which holds a 30pc stake, may try to veto 
the deal.
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
End of Document
Flybe is finding more passengers
Flybe is finding more passengers
City A.M.
June 25, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 339 words
Byline: STEPHAN SHAKESPEARE
Body
THE LOW-COST airline sector is currently in the spotlight. While much of the focus has been about Ryanair's 
charm offensive to reposition itself, fellow carrier Flybe has also made waves in recent months.
A few weeks ago, Flybe announced a return to profits and a record number of passengers. After a few turbulent 
years when the company replaced its executive team and undertook an extensive restructuring, in April it launched 
a multimillion pound advertising campaign.
The activity focused on "time saving travel", portraying the brand as a better and quicker way of getting around the 
country than road and rail.
I have used YouGov's BrandIndex tool to look at whether the adverts have had any impact on the public's view of 
the airline. The good news for Flybe is that its "think minutes not miles" TV campaign seems to have resonated with 
consumers.
The ad awareness metric, which assesses whether people have seen a brand's advert over the previous two 
weeks, shows that Flybe's score rose from 3.6 per cent at the end of March, to a high of 6.7 per cent midway 
through April - after the start of the marketing activity.
Over the same time period, the success of Flybe's advertising campaign was mirrored in its Buzz Score, which 
measures whether consumers have heard anything positive or negative about the brand over the previous two 
weeks.
At the turn of the year, Flybe had a negative rating of -1.6. However, at the end of May once the campaign had 
been running a while, that rating had improved to a respectable +3.9.
Flybe is finding more passengers
Of course, the low-cost airline sector is very competitive and one improved set of results, record passenger 
numbers and a resonant advertising campaign does not mean Flybe can rest on its laurels.
The battle of the budget carriers will continue, but the signs are good for Flybe as it continues its battle for 
consumers' hearts and minds.
Stephan Shakespeare is the chief executive of YouGov
Flybe Ad Awareness Score May 2014 Mar 2014 Jan 2014 6 0 2 4 8 %
Flybe Buzz Score May 2014 Mar 2014 Jan 2014 5 -10 -5 0 10
Load-Date: June 25, 2014
End of Document
EUROPEAN FLIGHTS HIT BY FRENCH STRIKES
EUROPEAN FLIGHTS HIT BY FRENCH STRIKES
City A.M.
June 25, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 58 words
Body
THOUSANDS of air passengers across Europe endured a day of delays and cancellations yesterday as French air 
traffic controllers began a six-day strike. Ryanair said it cancelled 220 flights yesterday, or 13 per cent of its total 
schedule. The French authorities have warned that the disruption across Europe is likely to be "materially worse" 
today.
Load-Date: June 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair flights cancelled over strike Air Strike
Ryanair flights cancelled over strike; Air Strike
Business World (Digest)
June 24, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 267 words
Highlight: Ryanair has cancelled a number of flights to and from France while Aer Lingus said there may be some 
dealys due to a strike by French air traffic controllers that starts tomorrow.
Body
Ryanair has cancelled a number of flights to and from France while Aer Lingus said there may be some dealys due 
to a strike by French air traffic controllers that starts tomorrow.
France is braced for travel chaos after the country's civil aviation body urged airlines today to cut flights by up to 
20pc in Paris and some other cities due to the strike.
The six-day strike called by a leading trade union is due to start tomorrow.
The civil aviation agency said three-quarters of flights would be operational on average. "Flights to southern France, 
Spain, Portugal, Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria leaving from Paris" would be slightly less affected, with services 
reduced by 20pc. It asked airlines to slash flights by 20pc in airports in southern France to ease the pressure. 
Ryanair called on the French Government and EU Commission to prevent thousands of Europe's citizens having 
their flights cancelled or delayed by a small number of French Air Traffic Controllers going on strike this week (the 
fourth such strike in France in the last 12 months). Ryanair was forced to cancel 26 flights (on 24 June) due to the 
French ATC strike. Customers scheduled to fly tomorrow should be prepared for delays and possible further 
cancellations with the strike action likely to affect flights flying to, from and over France. It again called on the EU 
Commission to remove the right to strike from Europe's air traffic controllers, "who are once more attempting to 
blackmail ordinary consumers with strikes, and urged the French Govt and EU to intervene to prevent further 
cancellations and delays on Wednesday."
Load-Date: July 8, 2014
Ryanair flights cancelled over strike Air Strike
End of Document
Accelerating competition: How to level the playing field for challenger banks
Accelerating competition: How to level the playing field for challenger banks
City A.M.
June 24, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 766 words
Byline: JAMES BARTY
Body
THERE is something that politicians and bankers both agree upon - we believe that greater competition improves 
the service and the products that customers get. We've heard ideas about increasing competition in banking from 
across the political spectrum. Today, the BBA is adding to that debate with some new ideas on promoting 
competition by levelling the playing field, so that large and small banks can fairly compete for customers.
Our view is that competition is already coming, not just in the flotation of the TSB or the divestment of Williams & 
Glyn next year, but from all of the challenger banks. The job of the authorities is simply to nurture that competition.
This is not a new topic - at least 38 competition or market investigations into the sector have taken place over the 
past 15 years. Further, banking is already more competitive than most people think, because it is not one market 
but many. Banks don't just offer current accounts, of course, but credit cards, mortgages, personal loans and 
business banking.
Indeed, polling carried out by YouGov for the BBA shows that nearly six times as many customers (57 per cent) 
believe that banks offered them enough choice of products and services than thought not (10 per cent).
Yet merely settling for the current state of play is not an option. We believe banking is starting to witness the type of 
change that has already been seen in industries like supermarkets and airlines in recent years. There, new entrants 
like easyJet, Ryanair, Ocado and Lidl have changed the competitive landscape.
The large airlines and supermarkets have not stood idly by. They have changed their businesses to compete for 
customers.
Accelerating competition: How to level the playing field for challenger banks
The same is now happening in banking. New technology has facilitated the arrival of a new breed of bank, like 
Metro, Aldermore, Shawbrook and Secure Trust, while more established players such as Handelsbanken, 
Santander, Virgin and Tesco have been expanding too. New banks continue to arrive, like Paragon and Tungsten, 
while Atom Bank will be launching next year as an internet only bank.
It is not just the institutions we bank with, but the way we bank, that is likely to change. Digital technology means we 
can now pay people using our mobile phones, receive account updates by text message, check our accounts using 
a digital app, and we will soon be able to pay in cheques by scanning them with our phone. According to YouGov, 
78 per cent of people use online banking at least once a month and 53 per cent said they were confident they could 
do the vast majority of their banking online or over the phone. Having a large branch network is no longer a 
necessity to win new customers, which undoubtedly helps the challengers.
The BBA believes that competition is vital. The key to achieving this is to ensure that all banks, both big and small, 
can compete on a level playing field. That's why we are today calling for four key changes in the areas of capital, 
funding, payments and regulation.
First, many of the challengers are currently required to hold more capital against their lending than bigger banks, 
because they have to use standardised capital weight rather than model-based weights. This is particularly 
important in safer areas of lending such as low loan-to-value mortgages. We support the call to allow challengers 
access to an average of the model-based weights of the larger banks. It would make it easier for challengers to 
recycle their deposits and increase lending.
Second, larger banks also tend to have an advantage in terms of funding because of their size. We propose a 
series of measures, including not restricting local authorities from depositing their money with challengers, making 
the Bank of England's Funding for Lending Scheme more challenger-friendly, and considering in the longer term a 
new Funding for Challengers scheme.
Third, we urge the new Payments Systems Regulator to reform the payments system so that all banks have fair 
access, and pay a reasonable and transparent price to use the system.
Finally, we believe regulators should also look to be more proportionate when implementing regulation so that it 
does not adversely impact on smaller players. While all additional regulation means extra cost, the bigger banks are 
set up to cope with it, while small banks are not. The sheer burden of new rules can sometimes hinder competition.
The banking industry supports competition. Banks compete for customers every day. The challenge is to create the 
right conditions for consumers to benefit from even more competition. James Barty is strategy director at the BBA. 
www.bba.org.uk
Load-Date: June 24, 2014
End of Document
Europe's airlines cancel flights ahead of latest French strikes
Europe's airlines cancel flights ahead of latest French strikes
City A.M.
June 24, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 163 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
EUROPEAN air passengers will be hit with widespread delays and cancellations today and during the rest of the 
week as the French air traffic controllers hold their fourth strike in the space of a year.
France's aviation authority has asked airlines to cancel a fifth of flights passing through most major French airports.
The body warned passengers yesterday that "disturbances are possible throughout the territory" as a result of the 
walkouts, which will end on Sunday.
Ryanair yesterday scrapped 26 services and warned more could be axed on the day. The airline's marketing boss 
Kenny Jacobs called for the EU Commission to strip the air traffic controllers of the right to strike "to stop Europe 
being held to ransom by a small number of air traffic controllers every summer".
British Airways said "the level of disruption is likely to fluctuate" and could lead to delays on any service that flies 
over France, while EasyJet said it was scrapping a quarter of its French flights.
Load-Date: June 24, 2014
End of Document
Airlines feel heat from Iraq conflict
Airlines feel heat from Iraq conflict
Financial Times (London, England)
June 23, 2014 Monday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 15
Length: 445 words
Byline: Sarah Gordon and Jane Wild
Body
European airline shares have fallen sharply as growing violence in Iraq marks the end of an unprecedented period 
of low volatility in oil prices.
Brent crude hit a nine-month high of $115 a barrel on Thursday and has risen more than 5 per cent since militants 
entered the Iraqi towns of Mosul and Tikrit on June 10.
Although jet-fuel prices have not risen as much, European airline shares have responded by falling 13 per cent in 
the same period, according to MSCI, the index provider.
Fuel costs account for a high proportion of European airlines' costs. Although the region's carriers typically hedge 
their costs more aggressively than their Asian and US counterparts - with some having hedged as much as 70 per 
cent of their 2014 fuel needs - several will be caught out by the oil-price rise.
HSBC analysts estimate that a $5-a-barrel rise in the spot crude price will cut operating profits for European airlines 
this year by 1 per cent to 52 per cent.
Norwegian Air Shuttle, Europe's third-largest low-cost carrier after Ryanair and easyJet, does not hedge any of its 
fuel requirements.
Ryanair on Friday dismissed the prospects of a long-term rise in oil prices.
Airlines feel heat from Iraq conflict
"This short-term thing happens all the time," said Howard Millar, chief financial officer. "It was Ukraine, now it's Iraq, 
it will be something else. Every week that goes by in the fuel markets there is an event, this is just one in a long 
sequence."
Ryanair has hedged 90 per cent of its fuel requirements for this financial year at about $96 a barrel, which it says 
has generated savings of roughly EUR70m compared with the previous year.
The Irish low-cost carrier notoriously erred in its fuel-hedging policy in 2008, making a series of missteps that cost it 
EUR102m , prompting a public admission from chief executive Michael O'Leary that it "screwed up".
"For Ryanair, this time the toast has landed butter-side up," said Andrew Lobbenberg, airlines industry analyst at 
HSBC.
The oil-price rise puts an end to a long period of low volatility in the market, with Brent crude trading in a narrow 
range of about $104 to $110 a barrel over the past year.
An end to low volatility in oil prices would have an impact on all airlines, since it has tended to reduce the cost of 
hedging as well as creating a more stable environment for investment decisions. "Obviously hedging does have a 
price, so low volatility tends to lower that price," said Mr Lobbenberg.
Chris Monro, vice-president treasurer at Southwest Airlines in the US, added: "The last several years of relative [oil] 
price stability has allowed us to plan and execute with more assurance."
Additional reporting by Robert Wright and Gregory Meyer in New York
Load-Date: June 22, 2014
End of Document
UK Market Rises, Rolls-Royce Climbs
UK Market Rises, Rolls-Royce Climbs
RTT News (United States)
June 19, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 314 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market is trading higher on Thursday, after the Fed's policymaking committee on Wednesday 
left interest rates unchanged and announced another $10 billion cut in its monthly bond-buying program.
While terming recent inflation figures as "noisy" Fed chair Janet Yellen made it clear that the central bank intends to 
keep rates low "for a considerable time" after the bond-buying ends.
In economic news, British retail sales declined in May largely due to a fall in food store sales, the Office for National 
Statistics said. Retail sales volume, including auto fuel, fell 0.5 percent in May from April. This was the second fall in 
last five months and matched economists' expectations.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is adding 1.04 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.70 percent.
The FTSE 100 index is currently gaining 0.90 percent.
Rolls-Royce is gaining 5.6 percent after announcing a 1 billion pounds share buyback.
Barratt Developments is gaining 3.2 percent and CRH is rising 2.8 percent.
UBS raised Ryanair to ''Buy'' from ''Neutral.'' The stock is moderately higher.
Other major markets in the region are also trading higher.
The Asian stocks, which opened on a strong note after the U.S. Federal Reserve struck a more dovish stance, 
ended mixed.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street, ahead of reports on weekly jobless claims and 
Philadelphia-area manufacturing activity.
In the previous session, stocks gained ground for the fourth consecutive day. The Dow and the tech-heavy Nasdaq 
added 0.6 percent each, while the S&P 500 advanced 0.8 percent.
Crude for August delivery is rising $0.25 to $105.84 per barrel, while gold is gaining $9.1 to $1281.8 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
UK Market Rises, Rolls-Royce Climbs
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 19, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Follow Wall Street Higher On Fed Outlook
European Stocks Follow Wall Street Higher On Fed Outlook
RTT News (United States)
June 19, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 264 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks rallied on Thursday, pushing into positive territory for the week, as dovish comments 
from the U.S. Federal Reserve eased speculation about an imminent rate hike.
The Fed tapered its asset buying program by $10 billion per month yesterday, but Fed Chair Janet Yellen said it 
would be "considerable time" between when the bond taper ends and when rate hikes begin.
Mining stocks were bolstered as the U.S. dollar weakened on the news.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks rose 1.07 percent.
The German DAX rose 0.75 percent, the FTSE of the UK added 0.45 percent, and France's CAC 40 rose 0.72 
percent. Switzerland's SMI inched up 0.20 percent.
Automakers Daimler, BMW and Volkswagen all gained in Frankfurt.
Rolls Royce jumped 8 percent in London after announcing a share buy back. Ashtead Group rose 4 percent and 
Barratt Development added 3.8 percent.
In Paris, EDF dropped more than 7 percent, after French Energy Minister Segolene Royal said a price increase 
would not be applied.
Air France-KLM lost 3.5 percent. UBS cut the stock to ''Sell'' from ''Neutral.''
UBS raised Ryanair to ''Buy'' from ''Neutral.'' The stock was moderately higher.
Hennes & Mauritz (H&M) shares slipped 0.5 percent after Deutsche Bank cut the Swedish fashion retailer to hold 
from buy.
The Swiss National Bank announced "significant progress" made by UBS and Credit Suisse at improving their 
capital positions. Still, shares of both banks were down more than 1 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
European Stocks Follow Wall Street Higher On Fed Outlook
Load-Date: June 19, 2014
End of Document
European Markets Rise On Fed Stance
European Markets Rise On Fed Stance
RTT News (United States)
June 19, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 445 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are trading higher on Thursday, after the Fed's policymaking committee on 
Wednesday left interest rates unchanged and announced another $10 billion cut in its monthly bond-buying 
program.
While terming recent inflation figures as "noisy" Fed chair Janet Yellen made it clear that the central bank intends to 
keep rates low "for a considerable time" after the bond-buying ends.
In economic news, British retail sales declined in May largely due to a fall in food store sales, the Office for National 
Statistics said. Retail sales volume, including auto fuel, fell 0.5 percent in May from April. This was the second fall in 
last five months and matched economists' expectations.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is adding 1.13 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.80 percent.
The German DAX, the French CAC 40 and the UK's FTSE 100 are rising between 0.8 percent and 0.9 percent. 
Switzerland's SMI is climbing 0.3 percent.
In Frankfurt, ThyssenKrupp and E.ON are rising 2.2 percent each. Basf is gaining 1.6 percent.
Daimler, BMW and Volkswagen are gaining between 1.3 percent and 1 percent.
Real estate services provider Deutsche Annington is losing moderately, even as Societe Generale raised the stock 
to ''Premium List.''
In Paris, Saint-Gobain is rising 3 percent and Schneider Electric is adding 2.5 percent.
Societe Generale and Credit Agricole are gaining 2 percent and 1.6 percent, respectively. BNP Paribas is up 0.7 
percent.
Bucking the trend, EDF is declining 6.7 percent, after French Energy Minister Segolene Royal said a price increase 
would not be applied.
Air France-KLM is dropping 2.4 percent. UBS cut the stock to ''Sell'' from ''Neutral.''
In London, Rolls-Royce is gaining 5.6 percent after announcing a 1 billion pounds share buyback.
European Markets Rise On Fed Stance
Barratt Developments is gaining 3.2 percent and CRH is rising 2.8 percent.
UBS raised Ryanair to ''Buy'' from ''Neutral.'' The stock is moderately higher.
The Asian stocks, which opened on a strong note after the U.S. Federal Reserve struck a more dovish stance, 
ended mixed.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street, ahead of reports on weekly jobless claims and 
Philadelphia-area manufacturing activity.
In the previous session, stocks gained ground for the fourth consecutive day. The Dow and the tech-heavy Nasdaq 
added 0.6 percent each, while the S&P 500 advanced 0.8 percent.
Crude for August delivery is rising $0.48 to $106.07 per barrel, while gold is gaining $10.0 to $1282.7 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 19, 2014
End of Document
Hungary 's Wizz Air scraps plan for flotation TRAVEL & LEISURE
Hungary's Wizz Air scraps plan for flotation; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
June 17, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 22
Length: 486 words
Byline: Andy Sharman and Andrew Parker
Body
Wizz Air has become the second company in a month to scrap plans to float in London, blaming recent volatility in 
airline share prices.
The Hungarian budget carrier last month announced that it intended to raise EUR200m through an initial public 
offering - but yesterday said it was not proceeding "due to the current market volatility in the airline sector".
Last week two European flag carriers issued profit warnings and several US and EU airlines' share prices fell 
following a leap in oil prices after jihadi militants gained ground in Iraq. Fuel accounts for about a third of industry 
operating costs.
Last Wednesday Lufthansa slashed its earnings targets for 2014 and 2015 amid strikes by staff and stiff 
competition from rivals based in the Gulf. A day later Aer Lingus issued its second profit warning in a year after 
industrial action deterred travellers from booking flights with it.
Yesterday Wizz Air said: "Despite the positive response to our business story, and the company's growth 
opportunities and prospects within the institutional investment community, Wizz Air today announces that the 
company has decided not to proceed with an IPO at this stage, due to the current market volatility in the airline 
sector."
Hungary 's Wizz Air scraps plan for flotation TRAVEL & LEISURE
Last month, when it announced its intention to seek a London listing on the same day fashion chain Fat Face pulled 
its IPO, one person close to Wizz Air said a float could provide it with a market capitalisation of £1bn, with a free 
float of at least 50 per cent.
This person said yesterday that the dropping of the IPO would not harm the company's growth strategy in central 
and eastern Europe and added that Wizz Air could try to float again in about six months.
The carrier wanted to use the proceeds from the IPO to strengthen its balance sheet and, in doing so, cut the cost 
of renting aircraft, all of which are leased. It also wanted to use the cash to maximise expansion opportunities in 
existing and possibly new markets.
Based in Budapest and founded in 2004, it is one of a newer breed of low-cost carriers including Norwegian Air 
Shuttle and Vueling that are providing heightened competition for longer-established budget operators such as 
Ryanair. It highlights how the longstanding duopoly in the sector - comprised of Ryanair and easyJet - is ending.
The IPO was to have involved some of Wizz Air's investors - led by Indigo Partners, the private equity firm which 
has held stakes in Asian and US airlines - selling some of their existing stock.
Wizz Air's retreat comes amid much debate about the health of the London IPO market . A rush of UK listings in the 
spring helped a number of technology- -enabled retailers - including AO World - achieve heady valuations.
Several newly listed companies are trading at or below their offer prices, prompting concerns about investor fatigue 
, but market jitters have not stemmed the flow of companies lining up to float in London.
See Lombard
Load-Date: June 16, 2014
End of Document
Wizz Air grounds London float
Wizz Air grounds London float
City A.M.
June 17, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 5
Length: 352 words
Byline: MICHAEL BOW
Body
HUNGARIAN low cost airline Wizz Air yesterday ditched plans to float in London due to turbulence in the airline 
industry, the second company to this year to shelve a market listing.
The firm blamed "market volatility" in the airline sector for pulling the initial public offering of shares, which would 
have raised (EURO)200m (£160m) to strengthen its balance sheet.
Rivals like Ryanair, Aer Lingus and EasyJet as well as larger airlines like Lufthansa - which fell 14 per cent last 
week in trading - have been hit by a range of issues ranging from a spike in the price of oil due to unrest in Iraq 
through to industrial disputes.
Wizz Air's base in eastern Europe - it is headquartered in Budapest - also contributed to concerns, given the 
ongoing turmoil on the eastern edge of Ukraine.
The company launched the initial public offering on 22 May after spending months weighing up whether to list, with 
shareholders planning to offload 50 per cent of the firm to public investors.
It is thought the decision to pull the deal was taken on Friday, ahead of an expected pricing on the 20 June.
The company said in a statement: "Despite the positive response to our business story, and the company's growth 
opportunities and prospects within the institutional investment community, Wizz Air today announces that the 
company has decided not to proceed with an IPO at this stage, due to the current market volatility in the airline 
sector."
Wizz Air grounds London float
Wizz Air is the second company this year to reverse plans for a London listing, despite markets experiencing record 
levels of issuances.
Last month retailer Fat Face said it was ditching plans to raise £110m from public investors due to "equity market 
conditions".
Wizz Air's management, led by chief executive Jozsef Varadi, said the outlook for the business remained "positive" 
and would not be dented by the decision.
"The board will continue to focus on executing its strategy of driving growth and value," the company said.
The IPO syndicate included Barclays, Citigroup and JP Morgan as joint global co-ordinators and joint bookrunners 
on the deal, with Nomura acting as lead manager.
Graphic
 
Wizz Air: Failed to take off in London
Load-Date: June 17, 2014
End of Document
Lufthansa mulls take-off for a new budget service in Europe
Lufthansa mulls take-off for a new budget service in Europe
City A.M.
June 16, 2014 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 152 words
Byline: JONATHAN GOULD
Body
GERMANY'S Lufthansa is considering creating a new low-cost platform within its Eurowings regional carrier to 
compete against budget rivals like Ryanair and Easyjet, a German magazine has reported.
Lufthansa's new chief executive Carsten Spohr plans to build out the Eurowings fleet by adding Airbus A320 jets to 
serve destinations throughout Europe from Germany, Der Spiegel magazine reported, without citing sources.
In the medium term, the new platform could offer service between London and Rome, for example, placing it in 
direct competition with Ryanair and Easyjet, the magazine said.
Shares in Lufthansa, Europe's biggest-selling airline, plunged last week after it slashed its profit targets for the next 
two years, citing competition from Middle East and low-cost rivals. Der Spiegel said German financial watchdog 
Bafin had started a routine review of trading in Lufthansa shares following the warning.
Reuters
Load-Date: June 16, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus strives to woo customers after stoppage TRAVEL & LEISURE
Aer Lingus strives to woo customers after stoppage; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
June 13, 2014 Friday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 16
Length: 199 words
Byline: Andy Sharman
Body
Aer Lingus has said it faces a battle to win back customer confidence after a strike by cabin crew harmed 
passenger bookings and forced the airline to issue its second profit warning in less than a year.
The Irish flag carrier yesterday warned that 2014 operating profits would be as much as 20 per cent lower than last 
year after the strike in May, coupled with the threat of further action this month, caused "significant damage" to 
trading.
"This has been particularly noticeable in recent days following increased media coverage and commentary," the 
company said in an unscheduled trading update.
The Impact trade union and staff are seeking a new rostering pattern, although union leaders have now cancelled 
strikes planned for Monday and Wednesday next week after talks in the Irish Labour Court.
Aer Lingus said the hit to earnings before interest and tax would still be significant at 10-20 per cent lower than the 
EUR61.1m achieved last year, depending in part on "the speed with which we can win back customer confidence".
Aer Lingus had warned on profits in September, which it blamed on a drop in its short-haul business in the face of 
competition from low-cost rival Ryanair.
Andy Sharman
Aer Lingus strives to woo customers after stoppage TRAVEL & LEISURE
Load-Date: June 12, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus warns strikes could wipe a fifth from its earnings
Aer Lingus warns strikes could wipe a fifth from its earnings
City A.M.
June 13, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 148 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
AER LINGUS yesterday blamed looming strike action for its surprise profit warning, in which it said profits could be 
up to a fifth lower than last year.
The Irish carrier said Impact union's strikes, expected next week, had caused "significant damage" to bookings over 
the crucial summer months.
The firm said yesterday that, providing there were no more strikes, 2014 operating profits were set to be 10 to 20 
per cent lower than last year, or between (EURO)49m (£39.5m) and (EURO)55m.
"The outcome will depend in part on the speed with which we can win back customer confidence," it said.
Aer Lingus said on 20 May that trading had been strong and in line with the prior year. This is the second time the 
firm has warned on profits in less than a year, having blamed tough price competition from Ryanair in September.
Dublin-listed shares in Aer Lingus fell 3.2 per cent yesterday to (EURO)1.44.
Graphic
 
The Irish airline has warned on profits twice in less than a year
Aer Lingus warns strikes could wipe a fifth from its earnings
Load-Date: June 14, 2014
End of Document
Restructuring lifts Flybe into profit; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Restructuring lifts Flybe into profit; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
June 12, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 25
Length: 407 words
Byline: Mark Odell
Body
Flybe has reported a sharp turnround in its fortunes, recording its first full-year profit since the regional airline 
floated more than three years ago.
Saad Hammad, who took over as chief executive just under a year ago, hailed the result as "a great step forwards" 
and proof that his restructuring plan was working.
The new management took an axe to the business, cutting 1,100 jobs to reduce the workforce to 2,500, and closing 
unprofitable bases and taking out some capacity. It also slashed prices in its UK operation, which reduced yields, a 
measure of the average fare, by more than 6 per cent. This in turn stimulated demand, pushing up load factors by 
more than five percentage points to 69.5 per cent.
The airline, which also operates regional services on behalf of Finnair, under the Finnish carrier's brand, reported a 
1 per cent rise in group revenues to £620m in the 12 months to the end of March, compared with £614m a year 
earlier.
The restructuring programme produced £47m in savings, pushing the airline back into profit, with pre-tax earnings 
of £8.1m against a loss of £41.1m last time. The company reported earnings per share of 9.6p, versus a loss of 56p 
per share last year.
Restructuring lifts Flybe into profit; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Despite a 1.4 per cent cut in capacity in the UK, revenues rose slightly as lower fares pushed up demand. The 
marginally unprofitable Finnish joint venture, in which Flybe has a 60 per cent stake, increased revenues by almost 
50 per cent as it added more routes and aircraft.
Mr Hammad said he planned to expand the "white label" model across Europe and was in talks with "a number of 
flag carriers across Europe" and hoped to announce some deals in the months ahead.
He said the increasing competitive pressure from low-cost operators, such as easyJet, Ryanair and Norwegian, on 
the established airlines was playing into Flybe's hands "We are getting more opportunities because the flag carriers 
are looking to offload more of their regional routes to focus on competition with the low-cost airlines on the bigger 
routes. But they still need that regional traffic to feed their hubs."
Earlier this year, Flybe raised £150m in a rights issue to help strengthen its balance sheet as part of the 
restructuring. Shares have performed strongly over the past 12 months after they hit lows of 40p in June last year. 
The carrier has outperformed the FTSE 250 index by about 180 per cent since last June.
The shares closed down nearly 2 per cent at 137.9p yesterday.
Load-Date: June 11, 2014
End of Document
IAG slips on Lufthansa's profit warning; LONDON
IAG slips on Lufthansa's profit warning; LONDON
Financial Times (London, England)
June 12, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 21
Length: 368 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
A profit warning from Lufthansa meant airlines led the London market lower yesterday, though the reaction baffled 
some ana-lysts, writes Bryce Elder. 
German airline Lufthansa cut 2014 profit guidance by about quarter to reflect weaker than expected passenger and 
freight revenue. British Airways owner IAG slipped 3.1 per cent to 400p in response, even after saying a week 
earlier that market conditions were stable.
"Lufthansa's problem is overcapacity, much of it self-inflicted," said Barclays.
But IAG's north Atlantic business is largely via Heathrow, where competitors cannot add meaningful capacity, said 
Barclays.
For the no-frills airlines, Barclays highlighted that Lufthansa's Germanwings division had been trading well. In any 
case, neither Ryanair (down 2 per cent at EUR7.46) nor easyJet (off 4 per cent at £15.30) had much exposure to 
Germany, it said.
The FTSE 100 ended down 0.5 per cent, losing 34.68 points at 6,838.87. Vodafone , which was trading ex-
dividend, accounted for nearly 10 points of the decline.
IAG slips on Lufthansa's profit warning; LONDON
Rolls-Royce weakened 5.5 per cent to £10.17 on news that Emirates Airlines had cancelled an order for 70 of 
Airbus's A350 jets. Rolls is the sole supplier of the A350 engines. With the jets not due for delivery before 2019, 
there was no short-term earnings impact on Rolls, said analysts.
SABMiller slipped 1.9 per cent to £33.95, having been boosted by speculation of a bid from AB InBev. Shore 
Capital saw a merger of the brewers as "compelling" but too complex to expect in the short term.
Among the gainers, AstraZeneca rose to £44. Pfizer's finance officer Frank D'Amelio said its bid for AstraZeneca 
broke down over price and the US group retained a "strong hand".
Aim-listed insurance broker Quindell fell 20 per cent to 14p after shelving its plan to move to the main list because 
the application would have been rejected. The stock had been weak, partly on word that its lead analyst at joint 
house broker Canaccord Genuity had agreed to go on leave . In April, analyst Kevin Ashton had suspended 
coverage of Quindell after short seller Gotham City Research published a critical report.
Premier Foods rose 6.5 per cent to 61.5p after Goldman Sachs upgraded to "buy" with a 90p target.
Load-Date: June 11, 2014
End of Document
IAG and easyJet under pressure after Lufthansa profit warning
IAG and easyJet under pressure after Lufthansa profit warning
Financial Times (London, England)
June 12, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: ON LONDON; Pg. 33
Length: 538 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
A profit warning from Lufthansa meant airlines led the London market lower yesterday, though the reaction baffled 
some analysts.
The German airline cut profit guidance for 2014 by about a quarter to reflect weaker than expected passenger and 
freight revenue. British Airways owner IAG slipped 3.1 per cent to 400p in response, even after saying a week 
earlier that market conditions were stable.
"Lufthansa's problem is overcapacity, much of it self-inflicted," said Barclays. It reckoned the German airline had 
added too many economy seats on its north Atlantic routes, diluting revenue, and had seen poor transfer volumes 
though its Munich and Frankfurt hubs.
But IAG's north Atlantic business is largely via Heathrow, where competitors cannot add meaningful capacity, said 
Barclays. And since London is the destination rather than a transfer point for 70 per cent of BA passengers, 
competition from other hubs should not be significant, it said.
For the no-frills airlines, Barclays highlighted that Lufthansa's Germanwings division had been trading well. In any 
case, neither Ryanair (down 2 per cent at EUR7.46) nor easyJet (off 4 per cent at £15.30) had much exposure to 
Germany, it said.
IAG and easyJet under pressure after Lufthansa profit warning
The FTSE 100 ended down 0.5 per cent, losing 34.68 points at 6,838.87. Vodafone , which was trading ex-
dividend, accounted for nearly 10 points of the decline.
Rolls-Royce weakened 5.5 per cent to £10.17 on news that Emirates Airlines had cancelled an order for 70 of 
Airbus's fuel-efficient A350 jets, choosing instead to use its existing fleet. Rolls is the sole supplier of the A350 
engines. With the jets not due for delivery before 2019, there was no short-term earnings impact on Rolls, said 
analysts. The bigger risk, they said, is that Airbus might rethink the A350 programme, which would require Rolls to 
spend more on research and development.
SABMiller slipped 1.9 per cent to £33.95, having been boosted by speculation of a bid from AB InBev. Shore 
Capital saw a merger of the brewers as "compelling" but too complex to expect in the short term.
Among the gainers, AstraZeneca rose 1.2 per cent to £44. Pfizer's finance officer Frank D'Amelio said its bid for 
AstraZeneca broke down over price and that the US group retained a "strong hand".
Kurdistan oil explorers retreated after an al-Qaeda splinter group seized control of Mosul, the capital of Iraq's 
northern province. Genel lost 5.7 per cent to 968.5p and Afren fell 4.5 per cent to 144.2p.
Aim-listed insurance broker Quindell fell 20 per cent to 14p after shelving its plan to move to the main list because 
the application would have been rejected, for reasons including its rapid development over the past three years. 
The stock had been weak ahead of the news, partly on word that its lead analyst at joint house broker Canaccord 
Genuity had agreed to go on leave . In April, analyst Kevin Ashton had suspended coverage of Quindell after short 
seller Gotham City Research published a critical report.
Premier Foods rose 6.5 per cent to 61.5p after Goldman Sachs upgraded it to "buy" with a 90p target.
"We believe Premier Foods has sufficient debt facilities to fund the business through to the end of the decade, and 
do not expect any further equity raising," Goldman said.
Load-Date: June 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches new aircraft branding agreement with National Express
Ryanair launches new aircraft branding agreement with National Express
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 12, 2014 Thursday 8:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched a new aircraft branding agreement with National Express, a coach operator, 
unveiling a livery on three of its Boeing 737-800 aircraft.
Body
Ryanair's selected coach partner at London Stansted Airport, National Express offers Ryanair customers travelling 
to and from London convenient and reliable coach travel and savings of up to 70% (versus rail transfers). Ryanair's 
UK General Manager, Ian Clayton said: "Ryanair will carry over 13m customers through Stansted this year at the 
lowest fares, connecting over 120 routes. Now our customers can go even further thanks to our exclusive coach 
partnership with National Express, with coach tickets available to purchase on both the Ryanair.com website and on 
board Ryanair flights operating to and from London Stansted Airport." National Express Managing Director UK 
Coach, Tom Stables said: "Our magnificent National Express-liveried planes are a great representation of the 
flyaway success of our partnership with Ryanair and will doubtless be a real talking point on the runway. As 
summer gets underway we are looking forward to carrying more and more Ryanair holidaymakers and business 
travellers to the airport with our round-the-clock services."
Load-Date: June 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's maiden bond flies high on firm demand
Ryanair's maiden bond flies high on firm demand
Financial Times (London, England)
June 11, 2014 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FAST FT; Pg. 20
Length: 269 words
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has enjoyed a first-class bond market debut, attracting almost EUR6bn of orders despite the 
cyclical nature and tight margins of the industry, and allowing bankers to price the EUR850m deal well below the 
initial guidance.
Although order books are often inflated by unrealistic investor orders and bids from banks arranging deals 
themselves, the scale of demand underscores the ravenous appetite for corporate bonds - especially in Europe.
The European Central Bank's move to ease monetary policy last week - and the possibility of outright "quantitative 
easing" to come this year - has further fuelled demand, and pushed corporate borrowing costs to new lows.
The average yield of Bloomberg's euro-denominated investment-grade corporate bond index has declined to just 
1.4 per cent, markedly below the equivalent US index. While the US gauge has a much longer average maturity, 
CDS indices indicate that European companies are considered less risky than their North American peers for the 
first time since the start of the eurozone crisis in 2010.
Ryanair is rated BBB plus by Standard & Poor's and Fitch, a few notches above "junk", but bankers were able to 
narrow the cost from initial guidance of about 100 basis points above midswaps to 85bp, for an overall yield of 1.93 
per cent.
That will be a relief to the banks on the deal - Citi as global coordinator, with Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas 
bookrunners alongside it. Michael O'Leary, the Ryanair chief executive, is famous for penny-pinching pugnacity, 
and would have been displeased with anything other than a bargain. www.ft.com/fastft 
Ryanair 's maiden bond flies high on firm demand
Load-Date: June 10, 2014
End of Document
BA 's heritage helps it bounce back
BA's heritage helps it bounce back
City A.M.
June 11, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 354 words
Byline: STEPHAN SHAKESPEARE
Body
TODAY I'm returning to an issue that comes around like a baggage carousel every summer: the ongoing battle for 
the hearts and minds of British air travellers.
I never tire of looking at this as it has so many angles - crisis recovery and the strength of a loved brand such as 
British Airways, the continued success of an exciting brand like Virgin Atlantic, alongside the inexorable rise of 
mould-breaking operators such as EasyJet and Ryanair. It is the British Airways tale that I want to focus on here. 
Almost exactly four years ago they were at their lowest ebb in the eyes of the public. Strikes, snow and the 
Icelandic ash cloud had seen their YouGov BrandIndex Index score, made up of six key image measures, drop as 
low as +1. The accompanying chart shows the current top five airlines - but British Airways had fallen out of the top 
20 in 2010.
How different things look now. Their first six months of recovery were impressive enough, as BA quickly recovered 
to the low +20s. What is even more remarkable is the sustained climb since then.
British Airways is now on +38, putting it in first place and eight points ahead of the nearest challenger, Virgin 
Atlantic. How has the company done this? BA has two clear advantages, and the job the company does in servicing 
its comparatively large number of consumers is a good one.
Its satisfaction score amongst customers is +77, which is a good score, albeit not as high as the best because BA 
has a far greater number of customers than any of its long-haul competitors. The firm still ends up with more people 
in the overall population who are satisfied customers of BA than any other airline.
BA 's heritage helps it bounce back
Bolstering this strong performance is British Airways' legacy of trust that has been built up since the brand's 
foundation in 1974, making it a name that people believe in. This has been instrumental in getting people to move 
on from the problems.
It is a lesson to any brand that positive public perception not only stands you in good stead on a day-to-day basis 
but builds foundations that allow you to survive crises when they hit.
Stephan Shakespeare is the chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: June 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair makes its bond debut by raising (EURO)850m for planes
Ryanair makes its bond debut by raising (EURO)850m for planes
City A.M.
June 11, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 142 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair issued its first ever bonds yesterday, raising (EURO)850m (£687m) to help finance its 
order for 180 new Boeing planes.
Ryanair said the seven-year, euro-denominated bonds were eight times oversubscribed and attracted investors 
from across Europe.
The firm, whose shares are listed in London and Ireland, claims its BBB+ debt rating makes it the best-rated airline 
in the world.
Chief financial officer Howard Millar said the bonds, which would pay holders 1.875 per cent, offered the firm a 
significant discount to financing costs from other sources of around 3.8 per cent.
"This is way ahead of anyone else. It's a significant competitive advantage," Millar told Reuters yesterday.
The funds will be used to pay for Ryanair's new fleet of Boeing 737-800 Next Generation aircraft, which will be 
delivered between this September and 2018.
Graphic
 
Ryanair, led by Michael O'Leary, said the bond issue would help fund its Boeing order
Ryanair makes its bond debut by raising (EURO)850m for planes
Load-Date: June 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair issues its 1st ever corp bond Ryanair Bond
Ryanair issues its 1st ever corp bond; Ryanair Bond
Business World (Digest)
June 10, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 304 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that it has issued an E850m Euro Bond at 1.875pc, fixed for 7 years, marking the first 
time it has tapped in to this kind of debt market.
Body
Ryanair today said that it has issued an E850m Euro Bond at 1.875pc, fixed for 7 years, marking the first time it has 
tapped in to this kind of debt market.
It is Ryanair's first ever Euro Bond debt issuance and is part of its plans to access the debt capital markets to 
source low cost financing for its new 180 Boeing 737-800 NG order, deliveries of which start in September 2014.
The airline said it will enable Ryanair to grow by 40pc over the next 5 years to over 110m customers a year.
Ryanair received a BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's and Fitch, making it the highest rated airline in the world. 
The bond will be listed on the Irish Stock Exchange which offers access to investors both in Europe and the rest of 
the world. The global coordinator for the bond was Citibank and the joint book runners were BNP Paribas, Citibank, 
and Deutsche Bank. Commenting on the bond issuance, Ryanair's Chief Financial Officer and Deputy CEO, 
Howard Millar said: "We are very pleased with the issue of our first ever Euro Bond for E850m at 1.875pc fixed for 7 
years. The bond was more than 8 times over-subscribed which reflects very strong demand from investors right 
across Europe. Investors were attracted both by Ryanair's BBB+ ratings from S and P and from Fitch, making us 
the highest rated airline in the world, and by the strength of Ryanair's business model, which is strongly cash 
generative, with a long track record of profitability, and a superior balance sheet with low levels of leverage." "This 
low cost financing, along with our attractively priced Boeing order for 180 aircraft, will enable us to reduce our 
aircraft ownership costs, and pass these savings on to our customers by continuing to offer the lowest fares in 
Europe, while growing from 82m customers to over 110m p.a. over the next 5 years," he added.
Load-Date: June 13, 2014
Ryanair issues its 1st ever corp bond Ryanair Bond
End of Document
Ryanair May passenger traffic increases
Ryanair May passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 10, 2014 Tuesday 1:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 140 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has reported that passenger traffic for the month of May 2014 was 8.2 million passengers, 
an increase of 4%, compared to 7.9 million passengers for May 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of May 2014 was 85%, an increase of three percentage points, compared to 82% for May 
2013. For the year-to-date period ended May 2014, passenger traffic was 82.3 million passengers, an increase of 
3%, compared to the corresponding period of 2013. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair 
traffic grew by 300,000 to 8.2m customers in May, thanks to the continuing success of our lower fares and our 
improving customer experience, including our great new website, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag 
and PED (portable electric device) use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest 
fares for our 82.3m customers. "We are especially pleased with the 3% point improvement in May load factor, which 
is slightly ahead of our 2% point growth target."
Load-Date: June 16, 2014
End of Document
Market Week: Your guide to what's going on
Market Week: Your guide to what's going on
Sunday Business Post
June 8, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 411 words
Body
Ireland credit rating upgraded by S&P
Ratings agency Standard & Poor's upgraded its credit rating for Ireland late last week, citing the improved 
prospects for the domestic economy here.
The move was warmly received by Minister for Finance Michael Noonan, who said the ''upgrade to A- rating by 
S&P's highlights the continued improvement in Ireland's credit worthiness.
''I am confident that we are moving in the right direction, he said, adding that the upgrade would ''further drive down 
bond yields and attract further investment in Ireland.
NTMA chief executive John Corrigan said the S&P decision marked ''the first A rating of Ireland by any of the major 
credit rating agencies since the normalisation of Ireland's return to the bond markets.
........................
**More bad news for beleaguered Tesco**
Retailer Tesco has reported a 5.5 per cent drop in its Irish like-for-like sales for the first quarter of 2014. In its latest 
update, the retailer said that Ireland ''remains intensely competitive with high levels of untargeted couponing in the 
market. Speaking about the supermarket chain's broader international performance, Tesco's chief executive Philip 
Clarke said he had ''never seen a period of such intense transformation.
........................
**ECB rate drops again**
Mario Draghi, the European Central Bank president, announced last week that European interest rates were once 
again moving lower, with the ECB's key rate reducing to 0.15 per cent, down from 0.25 per cent.
Market Week: Your guide to what's going on
The journey to last week's announcement of historically low interest rates began in November 2011, when rates 
were cut from 1.5 per cent to 1.25 per cent, before gradually reducing to current levels in a series of consecutive 
cuts.
Last week's move came as part of a broader package of measures, with the ECB taking its deposit rate into 
negative territory and announcing a multibillion-euro lending programme for banks.
........................
**Passenger numbers up**
Aer Lingus reported last week that passenger numbers rose by 2.4 per cent last month, up from 1,021,000 to 
1,046,000.
The airline's latest traffic statistics for May showed short-haul passenger numbers fell by 3.5 per cent, but this was 
offset by a 20.6 per cent rise in long-haul passengers and a 35.6 per cent increase in Aer Lingus Regional 
passenger numbers.
Meanwhile, rival airline Ryanair also reported its latest traffic statistics last week, which were up 4 per cent 
compared to the same month last year.
Load-Date: June 9, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet is the latest airline to report rising traffic during May
EasyJet is the latest airline to report rising traffic during May
City A.M.
June 6, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 141 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
EASYJET carried 7.9 per cent more passengers in May, the low-cost airline announced yesterday.
The carrier follows budget rival Ryanair and British Airways parent firm IAG in posting strong growth for the last 
month, which contained two bank holiday weekends.
EasyJet said its load factor, a measure of how full each plane is, rose 1.3 percentage points to 89.4 per cent. In the 
year to the end of May, the airline's passenger numbers are up 4.6 per cent on the prior year.
As well as growing in popularity with holidaymakers in Europe, EasyJet has been working to attract business 
travellers with paid-for assigned seating.
The company released a poll this week showing that seat 7F - a spot by the right-hand side windows towards the 
front of the plane - is the most popular place to sit. Seat 19C, in the middle, was deemed the least attractive seat.
Load-Date: June 6, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ gains after ECB rates move ISEQ Gains
ISEQ gains after ECB rates move; ISEQ Gains
Business World (Digest)
June 5, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 281 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rose modestly today after the ECB dropped its base interest rate to a record low and moved 
its deposit rate in to negative territory.
Body
The ISEQ rose modestly today after the ECB dropped its base interest rate to a record low and moved its deposit 
rate in to negative territory.
At the close, the index was up 15.11 points to 4,950.96.
The ECB launched a raft of measures today to fight low inflation and boost the euro zone economy, cutting rates, 
imposing negative interest rates on its overnight depositors and offering banks new long-term funds. The ECB cut 
all its main rates to record lows in a drive to fight off the risk of Japan-like deflation and bring down the euro's 
exchange rate. For the first time, it will charge banks 0.10 percent for parking funds at the central bank overnight. It 
stopped short of large-scale asset purchases known as quantitative easing for now, but ECB President Mario 
Draghi said more action would come it necessary. Draghi outlined a four-year 400 billion euro scheme giving banks 
that have been holding back credit due to looming stress tests an incentive to increase lending to businesses in the 
euro zone.
At home, shares in Ryanair fell 4c to E7.44. Its rival in Britain, easyJet has delivered another strong set of 
passenger numbers for May, with passengers growing by 8pc yoy to 6.1m. Load factor was up 1.3pts to 89.4pc, on 
a 6.4pc capacity increase to 6.8m seats. On a rolling 12 month basis, passenger numbers increased 4.6pc to 62.8m 
with load factor up 0.7pts to 89.9pc. Through the first eight months of easyJet's financial year, passenger growth is 
trending at +4.4pc, close to management's guidance of +5pc for FY14. Hence, we expect strong passenger growth 
to continue into the rest of the financial year, with management guiding that passengers should grow by 6.7pc in 
H214.
Load-Date: June 10, 2014
ISEQ gains after ECB rates move ISEQ Gains
End of Document
Airlines say more go away in May IN BRIEF
Airlines say more go away in May; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
June 5, 2014 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 77 words
Body
? Ryanair and IAG, British Airways' parent firm, have both posted rising traffic for May as the airlines head into the 
peak summer months. IAG said group traffic rose 7.3 per cent compared to last year, helped by big growth at 
Vueling, its recently-acquired budget carrier. Meanwhile low-cost carrier Ryanair said it carried 8.2m passengers 
last month, up four per cent on a year ago. The firm credited a recent decision to lower some fares and overhaul its 
website.
Load-Date: June 5, 2014
End of Document
Big boost for Shannon from Ryanair Ryanair Shannon
Big boost for Shannon from Ryanair; Ryanair Shannon
Business World (Digest)
June 4, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 405 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport has welcomed today's announcement by Ryanair that it is to add five routes onto its 
winter schedule this year as another significant boost for the airport.
Body
Shannon Airport has welcomed today's announcement by Ryanair that it is to add five routes onto its winter 
schedule this year as another significant boost for the airport.
The airport's winter schedule, which starts at the end of October, will see Ryanair retain its new Paris, Berlin, 
Fuerteventura, Warsaw and Krakow routes, all of which commenced in April.
In all, Ryanair will operate ten routes this winter, five more than last year. The other routes operated by the airline 
across the winter schedule will be Gatwick, Lanzarote, Liverpool, Stansted and Wroclaw.
Welcoming the announcement by Ryanair, Shannon Airport CEO Neil Pakey said, "This is a very important 
commitment by Ryanair to its Shannon schedule. We are already experiencing a significant upswing in summer 
passenger numbers thanks to the airline's nine new routes, which started at the beginning of April." "A major 
objective of ours after securing those new summer services was to bolster the winter season and this is a significant 
move in that regard." Also welcoming this latest Ryanair commitment to Shannon, Airport Chairman Rose Hynes 
said, "We have forged a strong relationship with Ryanair since the airport was made independent and this is making 
a significant contribution to the re-emergence of Shannon Airport as a catalyst for growth across this region." 
"Shannon needs to be sustainable across the entire year and these five new routes are helping us improve the 
balance across the two seasons. The new routes all have strong demand and a major positive also is the potential 
for inbound tourism in the off-peak period, which is extremely important for not just Shannon Airport but the region. 
This is a continuation of the upward curve in passenger numbers that we have delivered since the airport became 
independent in January of last year." Said Ryanair's David O'Brien: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Shannon 
2014 winter schedule, with 10 routes, including five new routes to Berlin, Fuerteventura, Krakow, Paris and 
Warsaw, as well as extra flights to and from London Stansted, all of which are on sale on the Ryanair.com website. 
The scrapping of the air travel tax from April last year has restored Ireland's competitiveness and attractiveness to 
Big boost for Shannon from Ryanair Ryanair Shannon
overseas visitors. We are delighted to be able to grow our Shannon operation by more than 50pc this winter season 
and deliver over one million more customers to Irish airports in 2014-2015."
Load-Date: June 6, 2014
End of Document
Rome airport wildcat strike grounds flights
Rome airport wildcat strike grounds flights
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 4, 2014 Wednesday 4:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 131 words
Dateline: ROME 
Body
ROME (AP) - Passengers at Rome's second airport are facing long lines and flight cancellations because of a 
wildcat strike by baggage handlers.
The unannounced strike began Wednesday morning at Ciampino, a hub for Ryanair and other discount airlines. 
About 850 workers of Groundcare, one of seven private companies that handle unloading baggage and cargo at 
Rome airports, are striking to recover back pay. Groundcare recently filed for bankruptcy protection.
Ciampino was paralyzed by the dispute, and airport employees passed out water and hotel information to 
frustrated, stranded customers during the peak tourist season in Rome.
Flights were cancelled into Wednesday evening. Italy's civil aviation authorities were meeting with Groundcare and 
the workers to try to resolve the dispute.
Load-Date: June 5, 2014
End of Document
The reinvention of Terry Smith
The reinvention of Terry Smith
Citywire
June 4, 2014 Wednesday 1:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 508 words
Body
When Terry Smith launched his boutique back in 2010 not everyone was convinced he could make it in the funds 
world.
Smith - one of the City's pugnacious characters who described himself as a 'come-forward boxer' in an interview 
with Citywire when FundSmith launched - had previously carved out his success in the broking world as chief 
executive of Tullett Prebon.
In simple terms, investing in Smith's (pictured) new business would be putting blind faith in someone who had no 
demonstrative track record in fund management.
Smith's Fundsmith Equity fund was run to one of the most basic concepts around, holding 20-30 'resilient' and 'high 
quality' stocks long term from across the world.
He received criticism by claiming the fund was designed for a 'broken industry', focusing on delivering 'superior 
investment performance at a reasonable cost'. The philosophy was based on John Templeton's axiom that 'if you 
want to have better performance than the crowd, you must do things differently from the crowd'.
No fees for performance; No nonsense; No market timing; No index hugging and No shorting are among the fund's 
key principles.
Naturally these boasts and the Templeton comparisons from someone with little history in fund management 
provided plenty of bait for the sceptics. 'The Michael O'Leary (Ryanair chief executive) of the funds world', one 
blasted.
Others questioned the logic of investing in a fund which they perceived to be a quasi tracker, where the manager 
simply buys a handful of blue chip stocks and sits on them.
In the fund's early days, Smith's outspoken nature continued to get the better of him. His constant tirades against 
politicians raised questions as to whether he was really focused on funds or more interested in running for office.
But during this transitionary period, performance of the FundSmith Equity fund held up and the cynics started taking 
Smith a little more seriously, while his political crusade moderated.
The reinvention of Terry Smith
Possibly a key moment in the fund's life was John Chatfeild-Robert's decision to buy into the strategy back in 
August 2012. The Jupiter chief investment officer remains a fan and described the fund as a good 'buy and forget' 
holding in March this year.
Performance backs this sentiment. Since launch the fund has returned 70.7% compared to a sector average of 
38%, ranking it fourth in the 217-strong IMA Global sector, and earning Smith a Citywire AAA-rating.
And today's news that Smith is standing down as chief executive of Tullett after eight years to focus on FundSmith 
shows this business is no flash in the pan. Assets under management have now breached the £2 billion mark, 
giving FundSmith the platform to develop.
Next up is an emerging markets investment trust, which will employ the same straightforward approach to the 
existing fund. Smith is investing £5 million of his own money into the trust and is targeting £250 million from a 
fundraising.
With the politics put to one side and Tullett no longer absorbing his attention, FundSmith could be one of the firms 
to watch over the next few years.
Load-Date: June 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers up 4pc in May Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers up 4pc in May; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
June 4, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 149 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that its passenger numbers rose by 4pc during May to 8.2 million compared to the 
same month a year ago.
Body
Ryanair today said that its passenger numbers rose by 4pc during May to 8.2 million compared to the same month 
a year ago.
It carried 82.3 million in the year to May - a 3pc improvement on the previous year.
The airline's load factor - a measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - rose by 3pc to 85pc in May, it said.
"Ryanair traffic grew by 300,000 to 8.2m customers in May, thanks to the continuing success of our lower fares and 
our improving customer experience, including our great new website, allocated seating, a free second small carry-
on bag and PED (portable electric device) use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the 
lowest fares for our 82.3m customers. We are especially pleased with the 3pc point improvement in May load 
factor, which is slightly ahead of our 2pc point growth target," said Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs.
Load-Date: June 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair May Traffic, Load Factor Up - Quick Facts
Ryanair May Traffic, Load Factor Up - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
June 4, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 120 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc's (RYA.L, RYAAY) May 2014 traffic grew by 4% or 300,000 
to 8.2 million customers from last year's 7.9 million customers, thanks to its lower fares and its improving customer 
experience, including its great new website, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and portable electric 
device or PED use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares for its 82.3 
million customers.
Monthly load factor went up by 3% to 85% from 82% reported a year before, and is slightly ahead of the company's 
2% point growth target.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 4, 2014
End of Document
Manchester airport still gaining altitude Regional Focus: Northwest TRAVEL & LEISURE
Manchester airport still gaining altitude; Regional Focus: Northwest; 
TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
June 2, 2014 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 700 words
Byline: Andrew Bounds
Body
Manchester airport, Britain's third largest, has hit the 21m passengers a year mark for the first time since 2008, 
confirming its recovery from the depths of the financial crisis.
After a plunge in traffic in 2008, the airport says it is 18 months at most from returning to the record annual high of 
22m passengers set in 2006. Its numbers are rising by 5.5 per cent year on year, compared with 3 per cent for the 
UK as a whole, according to the Civil Aviation Authority.
Ken O'Toole, chief commercial officer of Manchester Airports Group said welcoming its 21 millionth passenger in 12 
months on May 27 was testament to better marketing of the "overall strength of the airport".
"You have 24m people and 60 per cent of the UK's businesses within two hours' driving time. That is a strong basis 
to attract airlines."
There are also good travel links across the north and midlands. Its railway station is being expanded, which will give 
it better connections to the north of Manchester, and a tram link to the city centre is opening next year.
In 2014 it added Charlotte in North Carolina, Vienna and Jeddah, served by Saudi Airlines and Flynas, to 
destinations that include Singapore, Las Vegas, Washington DC, New York, Cairo and Moscow.
Manchester airport still gaining altitude Regional Focus: Northwest TRAVEL & LEISURE
The first direct flights to China from any UK airport outside London begin in December when Cathay Pacific starts a 
nonstop Hong Kong service.
Manchester has 65 airlines with 210 routes. Mr O'Toole said that a 2011 decision to work with Ryanair and other 
low-cost carriers it once shunned contributed to passenger growth. But the key was to increase long-haul traffic, 
which accounts for a fifth of passengers.
"We serve every short haul destination you'd want to go to. But we still have a huge amount of people who go down 
to London. If you start a service you recover 70 per cent of the leakage. People want to fly from their local airport."
It has 4m long haul passengers a year but 3m still travel from the region to London to fly. Dubai has become its 
second most popular destination as it becomes a global hub. MAG is working on a flight to Beijing. A third of UK 
traffic to the Chinese capital originates in the northwest.
The group is developing Stansted in Essex , which it bought last year for £1.5bn. Its airports, which include 
Bournemouth and East Midlands, handle 43m passengers annually.
In the six months to September 30 2013 MAG revenues rose from £229.8m in 2012 to £390m. Stansted added 
£138.4m. Without Stansted, revenues grew by 9.5 per cent to £251.6m.
Underlying pre-tax profits were up 80 per cent, from £93.4m in 2012 to £168.3m, with two-thirds of the rise coming 
from Stansted.
To facilitate the purchase, the 10 Greater Manchester councils sold a 35.5 per cent stake to Industry Funds 
Management of Australia. Shareholders shared a 2012 dividend of £72m, including a one-off £30m bonus from the 
Stansted deal.
The group issued a £450m, 20-year bond, with an annual coupon of 4.75 per cent, in February to pay off bank debt 
raised for the acquisition. The offer was oversubscribed, so in April it returned to the markets, raising £360m over 
10 years at 4.125 per cent.
MAG believes it can solve the thorny question of whether to build a third runway at Heathrow, which handled 72m 
passengers in 2013, by using its own second runway at Manchester.
"We are in favour of making best use of the capacity that we have as a country," Mr O'Toole said. It also favours 
building a second runway at Stansted.
Manchester's recovery, has dealt a blow to Liverpool John Lennon Airport, which has been trying to attract the 1m 
Merseysiders who fly from other airports each year. After becoming the 10th busiest UK airport in 2007 with 5.5m 
passengers, Liverpool has shrunk despite investment.
In the year to April 30, Liverpool handled 4.2m, a 3 per cent year on year fall. Some 1m people in its catchment 
area take charter flights from elsewhere and 950,000 take a connecting flight to a hub from another airport. It has 
lost its link to Amsterdam.
In April Peel Holdings took back control of JLA four years after selling to Canadian group Vantage. A joint venture of 
Vancouver Airport Authority and Citi Infrastructure Investors, and Vantage lost C$50m on the deal.
Load-Date: June 1, 2014
End of Document
Update 2: Ryanair 's "phenomenal" debut bond prices
Update 2: Ryanair's "phenomenal" debut bond prices
AirFinance Journal
June 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS
Length: 396 words
Highlight: Irish carrier attracts â,¬6 billion orderbook for debut unsecured bond.
Body
Ryanair has priced a debut â,¬850 million seven-year unsecured bond this week. The deal scored the hat-trick of 
being the lowest coupon ever in the airline sector, the lowest coupon for an Irish corporate and the joint lowest 
coupon for any seven-year BBB+ Eurobond.
The Irish carrier's notes were significantly oversubscribed. Airfinance Journal understands that the Irish carrier 
attracted at least â,¬6 billion worth of bids for the bond, and decided to increase the size of the bond from over 
â,¬500 million to â,¬850 million.
The deal priced at midswaps +85bp and carried a coupon of 1.875%
Market sources described the market appetite for the deal as "phenomenal." "It simply flew", adds one source close 
to the financing.
The notes are part of Ryanair's â,¬3 billion medium-term note programme.
Ryanair's proposed senior unsecured notes have been assigned an expected rating of BBB+ by Fitch Ratings.
Citi is the&nbsp;global coordinator for the bond&nbsp;while BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank are&nbsp;the joint 
bookrunners.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
The bond is the first part of Ryanair's plans to access the debt capital markets to source low cost financing for its 
new 180 Boeing 737-800 NG order. The first deliveries of the aircraft start in September 2014. Ryanair claims the 
incoming aircraft will allow it to grow by 40% over the next five years.
Ryanair has 175 Boeing 737-800s on order. In March, chief financial officer Howard Millar told Airfinance Journal 
that the carrier hoped to pay for the first deliveries through an unsecured debt programme.
Last month the carrier secured a credit rating of BBB+ from Fitch, while in March it secured a BBB+ rating from 
Standard and Poor's, which made it the world's highest rated airline.
Update 2: Ryanair 's "phenomenal" debut bond prices
Speaking to Airfinance Journal Millar added that the airlines was open to all forms of debt, including export credit 
financing, commercial debt and a EETC.
Millar comments: "The bond was more than eight times over-subscribed which reflects very strong demand from 
investors right across Europe."
He adds: "This low cost financing, along with our attractively priced Boeing order for 180 aircraft, will enable us to 
reduce our aircraft ownership costs, and pass these savings on to our customers by continuing to offer the lowest 
fares in Europe, while growing from 82m customers to over 110m p.a. over the next five years."
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's debut bond set to price today
Ryanair's debut bond set to price today
AirFinance Journal
June 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS
Length: 165 words
Highlight: Investors pile in for Irish carrier's first unsecured bond.
Body
Ryanair is set to price its debut unsecured bond later today.
Market sources state investor appetite has been "soaring" for the bond which Airfinance Journal understands will be 
over â,¬500 million.
The notes are part of Ryanair's â,¬3 billion medium-term note programme.
Initial pricing chatter for the bond is 100bp over&nbsp;midswaps &nbsp;but could change depending on how much, 
or whether, the bond is oversubscribed.
Ryanair's proposed senior unsecured notes have been assigned an expected rating of BBB+ by Fitch Ratings.
BNP Paribas, Citi and Deutsche Bank are leading the transaction.
Ryanair has 175 Boeing 737-800s on order. In March, chief financial officer Howard Millar told Airfinance that the 
carrier hoped to pay for the first deliveries through an unsecured debt programme.
Last month the carrier secured a credit rating of BBB+ from Fitch, while in March it secured a BBB+ rating from 
Standard and Poor's, which made it the world's highest rated airline.
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's senior unsecured notes rated BBB+
Ryanair's senior unsecured notes rated BBB+
AirFinance Journal
June 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 185 words
Highlight: Notes are part of â,¬3 billion medium-term note programme.
Body
Ryanair's proposed senior unsecured notes have been assigned an expected rating of BBB+ by Fitch Ratings.
Explaining its rating, Fitch noted that the capital structures of investment-grade issuers rarely included such high 
levels of secured debt and encumbered assets. 
However, as Ex-Im funding has become less cost efficient, the agency noted that future funding is likely to lead to 
an increase in unencumbered assets.
Last week Airfinance Journal revealed that Ryanair would launched a European bond roadshow and that the airline 
had mandated BNP Paribas, Citi and Deutsche Bank to arrange meetings with fixed income investors. 
Last month the carrier secured a credit rating of BBB+ from Fitch, while in March it secured a BBB+ rating from 
Standard and Poor's, which made it the world's highest rated airline.
The notes are part of Ryanair's &#8364;3 billion medium-term note programme.
Ryanair has 175 Boeing 737-800s on order. In March, chief financial officer Howard Millar told Airfinance that the 
carrier hoped to pay for the first deliveries through an unsecured debt programme.
Joe.Kavanagh@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Update 2: Ryanair's "phenomenal" debut bond prices
Update 2: Ryanair's "phenomenal" debut bond prices
AirFinance Journal
June 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS
Length: 196 words
Highlight: Irish carrier attracts â,¬6 billion orderbook for debut unsecured bond.
Body
Ryanair has priced a debut â,¬850 million seven-year unsecured bond today.
The Irish carrier's notes were significantly oversubscribed. Airfinance Journal understands that the Irish carrier 
attracted at least&nbsp;â,¬6 billion worth of bids for the bond, and decided to increase the size of the bond from 
over â,¬500 million to â,¬850 million.
The deal priced at midswaps +85bp and carried a coupon of 1.875%
Market sources described the market appetite for the deal as "phenomenal." "It simply flew", adds one source close 
to the financing.
The notes are part of Ryanair's â,¬3 billion medium-term note programme.
Ryanair's proposed senior unsecured notes have been assigned an expected rating of BBB+ by Fitch Ratings.
BNP Paribas, Citi and Deutsche Bank are leading the transaction.
Ryanair has 175 Boeing 737-800s on order. In March, chief financial officer Howard Millar told Airfinance that the 
carrier hoped to pay for the first deliveries through an unsecured debt programme.
Last month the carrier secured a credit rating of BBB+ from Fitch, while in March it secured a BBB+ rating from 
Standard and Poor's, which made it the world's highest rated airline.
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair plans first ever bond sale Ryanair Bond
Ryanair plans first ever bond sale; Ryanair Bond
Business World (Digest)
May 30, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 271 words
Highlight: Ryanair is planning its first bond sale after corporate borrowing costs fell to a record in Europe and the 
Irish company was awarded credit ratings that make it the highest-ranked carrier in the world.
Body
Ryanair is planning its first bond sale after corporate borrowing costs fell to a record in Europe and the Irish 
company was awarded credit ratings that make it the highest-ranked carrier in the world.
Europe's No. 1 discount airline has hired banks to arrange investor meetings starting June 3 to market a possible 
sale of notes in euros, according to a person familiar with the matter. It was graded BBB+ by Fitch Ratings this 
month, three levels above junk, the same rank awarded by Standard & Poor's in April.
Ryanair is refining its no frills model with customer- friendly enhancements such as allocated seating and an 
improved website as it seeks to lift passengers numbers by more than one- third to 110 million by 2019. The Dublin-
based airline agreed to buy five more Boeing Co. 737-800s last month, bringing its total order book to 180 jets 
worth dollar 16 billion at current list prices.
"We have our first deliveries coming in September, so we're looking to do a bond," Chief Financial Officer Howard 
Millar said on May 19, adding that the value would be at least E500 million, with a seven-year term. BNP Paribas, 
Citigroup and Deutsche Bank AG are the banks mandated by Ryanair, according to the person, who asked not to 
be identified as they are not authorised to speak. Citi is acting as global coordinator, the person said. Ryanair, led 
by Chief Executive Officer Michael O'Leary, didn't immediately respond to requests for further comment. The 
average yield on investment-grade bonds in euros fell 18 basis points this month to an all-time low of 1.6 percent, 
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Load-Date: June 4, 2014
Ryanair plans first ever bond sale Ryanair Bond
End of Document
24-hour strike at Aer Lingus snarls Irish airports
24-hour strike at Aer Lingus snarls Irish airports
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 30, 2014 Friday 8:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 133 words
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - A 24-hour strike at Irish airline Aer Lingus has grounded 202 flights and decimated traffic at the 
Republic of Ireland's three main airports in a union dispute over work schedules.
Aer Lingus offered free refunds or rescheduled bookings to an estimated 28,000 passengers obstructed by Friday's 
protest by the IMPACT trade union, which wants three-day breaks between work periods.
The airline has suffered repeated strike threats from its unionized staff as it seeks to compete with Dublin-based 
budget airline leader Ryanair.
IMPACT leaders argue that Aer Lingus should allow cabin crews to work in a pattern of five days on duty and three 
days off, the schedule already provided to pilots. They say Aer Lingus sometimes makes flight attendants work six 
days in a row, with a single day off.
Load-Date: May 31, 2014
End of Document
Low-cost airlines
Low-cost airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
May 27, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 308 words
Body
The market, like nature, abhors a vacuum. Both the leading low-cost airlines, easyJet and Ryanair, are drifting 
steadily upwards, towards better service and higher-paying customers. The empty airspace they are leaving behind 
is being filled quickly. Wizz Air's announcement, last week, that it intends to float its shares on the London Stock 
Exchange, comes amid a glut of UK IPOs. Its unfortunate name aside, it should not be bunged in with the tacky 
retailers and the second-tier, overpriced internet businesses that have disappointed in their debuts.
Wizz has a young fleet (about four years old) of 50 Airbus A-320 jets flying more than 12 hours a day; high, 
according to Citi. This suggests low unit costs. Moreover, it is based in Hungary, serving mainly central and eastern 
Europe where there is limited route competition. In the UK, Wizz uses Luton as its base, one of the cheaper airports 
from which it can expand its offering. It also plans to grow. Wizz anticipates increasing its fleet by 15 per cent 
annually over the next three years.
Investors, admittedly, already have plenty of choice among low-cost airlines. A timely £150m rights issue in 
February enabled management at regional airline Flybe to sit up from the brace position, given a previously weak 
cash position. Its shares have outperformed the sector, up 30 per cent this year alone.
Yet more than two-thirds of Flybe's capacity is UK-based and it sees itself as a competitor to rail and motor 
transport. Wizz might perhaps fear the likes of Vueling (now owned by International Airlines Group) and Ryanair, 
which do fly to some of its destinations.
Low-cost airlines
All the low-cost players will be competing for investor attention. Wizz deserves to get some, if its offering is priced 
reasonably. With its low costs, differentiated routes and growth potential, Wizz has some open sky to fly in.
Load-Date: May 26, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair boss gives ConnectIre thumbs up ConnectIreland
Ryanair boss gives ConnectIre thumbs up; ConnectIreland
Business World (Digest)
May 26, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 353 words
Highlight: Ryanair boss, Michael O'Leary, has given the government-backed ConnectIreland jobs initiative the 
thumbs up, describing Ireland as a great place in which to start and grow a business.
Body
Ryanair boss, Michael O'Leary, has given the government-backed ConnectIreland jobs initiative the thumbs up, 
describing Ireland as a great place in which to start and grow a business.
He appealed to the Irish public to play their part and earn E1,500 for every job they help create.
Mr O'Leary described the two year-old initiative, which has already brought 483 jobs and 19 foreign companies 
here, as "visionary and a brilliant idea". Ryanair is already promoting ConnectIreland through its in-flight magazine 
and its Chief Executive has vowed to promote the people-power plan any way he can.
Mr. O'Leary is ConnectIreland's latest ambassador, joining a group of supporters which includes stars from film, 
music, sport and the business world, among them Martin Sheen and Michael Flatley, Saoirse Ronan, Keith Wood 
and Sonia O'Sullivan. All have filmed YouTube clips, promoting the initiative, and encouraging others to join in 
assisting Ireland's economic recovery. "The ConnectIreland concept is a visionary strategy, a brilliant idea," Michael 
O'Leary said. "It is one that is already very successful - encouraging people to attract others to come into Ireland, 
create new jobs and it rewards those who bring them in here. It is a great idea and one that we thoroughly support." 
"Like all simple ideas, it has enormous potential. We've seen that already. People are meeting Americans, overseas 
investors who are over here perhaps on a holiday or business and encouraging them to create jobs here and set up 
businesses here." Mr O'Leary also commended the pro-business climate and culture in Ireland. "This is a great 
country in which to create a business and grow a business. We have a very competitive labour force. We have a 
terrific tax rate. What we need now is to send that message across the world. ConnectIreland is helping us to do 
this." "I think the more we can bring people in to Ireland, whether it is for tourism, for leisure of for work, it will 
certainly help. We will promote the ConnectIreland concept and encourage more and more entrepreneurs and 
business people to come to Ireland and set up businesses."
Ryanair boss gives ConnectIre thumbs up ConnectIreland
Load-Date: May 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair annual net profit decreases
Ryanair annual net profit decreases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 26, 2014 Monday 5:11 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 151 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings plc has reported that profit attributable to equity holders of the parent for the year 
ended March 31, 2014 was E522.8 million, or 36.86 cents per diluted share, compared to E569.3 million, or 39.33 
cents per diluted share, for the year ended March 31, 2013.
Body
Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the year ended March 31, 2014 were E5.04 billion, 
compared to E4.88 billion for the year ended March 31, 2013. Operating profit from continuing operations for the 
year ended March 31, 2014 was E658.6 million, compared to E718.2 million for the year ended March 31, 2013. 
Profit before tax for the year ended March 31, 2014 was E591.4 million, compared to E650.9 million for the year 
ended March 31, 2013. Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary, said: "While disappointing that profits fell 8% to E523m 
due mainly to a 4% decline in fares, weaker sterling, and higher fuel costs, we reacted quickly to this weaker 
environment last September by lowering fares and improving our customer experience which caused H2 traffic to 
grow 4% as load factors rose 1%. Ancillary revenues grew 17%, much faster than traffic growth, and now accounts 
for 25% of total revenues."
Load-Date: June 1, 2014
End of Document
Market Results: Positive signs from the big guns
Market Results: Positive signs from the big guns
Sunday Business Post
May 25, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 529 words
Body
C&C: American cider expansion on cusp of bearing fruit
''C&C delivered a robust full-year performance across key financial metrics, as Scotland and the Republic of Ireland 
underpinned profitability.
Cathal Kenny, Davy
.....
''There are still challenges ahead . . . but there are signs of stabilisation. Hopefully, the recovery in Ireland continues 
and they get that swing from the off-trade to the on-trade, [but] the investment case for C&C is about the 
internationalisation of cider.
Phil Carroll, Shore Capital
.........................
**Greencore: healthy serving of growth as convenience food giant looks stateside**
   A £30 million investment announced today for the Northampton sandwich business is from M&S and is on the 
back of firm orders; it will add £30 million per annum to sales from January 2015.  
Charles Pick, director, equity research, Numis Securities
.....
   Robust half-year results are slightly ahead of expectations with earnings before interest and tax up 14 per cent 
year on year to £37.2 million. This is 2.5 per cent ahead of our top-of-consensus estimates, driven by 17.2 per cent 
sales growth in UK Food-to-Go and 25.7 per cent growth in the US.  
Market Results: Positive signs from the big guns
Alex Howson, equity analyst, Jefferies
.........................
**Ryanair: fine forecast after turbulent winter**
   Ryanair's full-year profit after tax performance delivered few surprises. The outlook statement highlights strong 
summer trading, which will be mitigated by expected yield dilution in winter. The winter caution was to be expected 
given the 11 new aircraft that will be added to the fleet and the opening of new bases in Poland and Germany.  
Jack Diskin, Goodbody
.....
   Ryanair sees first half of the year fares rising by up to 6 per cent, due in part to stable growth in the second 
quarter. Guidance for the winter is cautious, with fares down 6 to 8 per cent on 6 per cent capacity growth. Unit 
costs will be flat.  
Stephen Furlong, Davy
.........................
**Datalex: flying high as deals flow**
   In its interim management statement covering the first four months of the year, Datalex has revealed continued 
strong growth. Transaction revenue is up 18 per cent year on year, and the company is currently deploying its TDP 
platform at JetBlue Airways and Virgin Atlantic, both of which will go live towards the back end of the year.  
Ross Harvey, Davy
.....
   Datalex continues to pursue other avenues of growth by expanding into new travel verticals such as rain and 
travel agency, and discussion with potential partners are ongoing, with its first partnership announcement expected 
soon.  
Colm Foley, Goodbody
.........................
**ICG: leaving choppy waters in its wake**
   Following the already announced weather-interrupted first two months to the year, momentum has improved over 
the last two to three months . . . Roll-on-roll-off traffic continues to be up strongly at 18 per cent, in line with the 
growth in the first two months . . . This growth reflected the introduction of the Epsilon and a growing freight market.  
Jack Diskin, Goodbody
.....
   The other news is that the company's debt is reducing . . . so the company is performing quite well.  
Stephen Furlong, Davy
Load-Date: May 26, 2014
Market Results: Positive signs from the big guns
End of Document
Budget airline Wizz aims for London lift off
Budget airline Wizz aims for London lift off
City A.M.
May 23, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 188 words
Byline: KATE McCANN
Body
HUNGARIAN budget airline Wizz Air is preparing to list on the London Stock Exchange as it looks to raise 
(EURO)200m (£162m) and grow its business in central and eastern Europe.
The no-frills airline, which provides travel to destinations across Europe, expects to launch its initial public offering 
next month and will be in direct competition with listed rivals EasyJet and Ryanair.
József Váradi, chief executive of the 10-year-old company, commented: "Our consistent focus on providing high-
quality services at attractive price points has brought strong, sustained growth in revenue and profit, significant 
brand recognition and a reputation for innovation and hometown customer care.
"We look forward to building on our success to date as we leverage opportunities in our current markets, new 
markets in central and eastern European region and further east, many of which have significantly higher GDP 
growth forecasts than the rest of western Europe."
The business has a market share in central and eastern Europe of 38 per cent and annual revenue of over 
(EURO)1bn. Barclays, Citigroup, JP Morgan and Nomura will work on the deal.
Load-Date: May 23, 2014
End of Document
Well run companies tend to perform better in environmental terms Profitability
Well run companies tend to perform better in environmental terms; 
Profitability
Financial Times (London, England)
May 22, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS: THE GREEN ECONOMY; Pg. 3
Length: 678 words
Byline: Rose Jacobs
Highlight: Initiatives with the best results tend to involve energy and resource efficiency, writes Rose Jacobs
Body
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, has a stock response to questions about green fuel. The airline will 
adopt it "the second it costs less than traditional aircraft fuel".
His cynicism pleases hard-nosed investors, and for good reason: there are trade-offs between environmental and 
financial performance. Yet just as Mr O'Leary's dismissive attitude towards customers has come under pressure 
recently, passive ap-proaches to sustainability are starting to lose their appeal, as evidence grows that groups 
pursuing a green agenda need not do so at the expense of profits - and that sustainable practices can even 
increase profitability.
Green rankings often tot up the money saved or revenues earned by companies through their environmental 
initiatives: over two decades, IBM's energy conservation efforts saved the group almost $400m; Broad Group in 
China invested in non-electric air conditioners and boosted revenues by 80 per cent in three years; Sainsbury's 
water-efficiency drive revealed leaks costing the UK grocer hundreds of thousands of pounds a year.
Some research suggests sustainable practices positively influence the share price: work by Harvard Business 
School professor Robert Eccles has shown that, over 18 years, shares in companies classified as high-
sustainability groups (in terms of environmental and social policies) have markedly outperformed those of low-
sustainability companies.
Well run companies tend to perform better in environmental terms Profitability
But Jon Williams, a partner at PwC who focuses on sustainability and climate change, cautions against mistaking 
effects for causes. "I'd argue any outperformance is because sustainable companies tend to be well-run companies 
more generally," he says.
Knut Haanaes at Boston Consulting Group agrees. "There is no automatic correlation between sustainability 
activities and economic value," he says.
In research he conducted with MIT's Sloan School of Management, 60 per cent of surveyed companies said they 
saw sustainability as a high priority, but only 30 per cent said that their sustainability activities had increased their 
profits.
Another 30 per cent thought they had broken even, while the rest admitted either that they did not know or that the 
activities had dented profits.
Mr Haanaes says that, to make sure a company is part of that third whose financials are boosted, the focus should 
be on material issues and highlighting the investments that will most benefit the firm.
Over the past 10 years, the initiatives with the best results have tended to centre on energy and resource efficiency. 
Mr Haanaes sees value-for-money opportunities in waste-handling and driving up revenues by tapping into 
consumer demand for products that are safe and traceable.
PwC's Mr Williams urges companies wanting to link green initiatives with increased profitability to explore potential 
efficiencies and risk - all along the supply chain - and then use the knowledge from that experience to develop 
green products and innovations. He doubts, however, that customers will pay more for sustainable products, 
particularly following the global recession.
That should not be a problem, says Keivan Zokaei, co-author of Creating a Lean and Green Business System . He 
compares the sustainability movement today with the push towards higher-quality products 40 years ago:
"The assumption for thousands of years was that if you wanted to make a product of higher quality, it would cost 
more. But quality is free if you build it into the process, and it's the very same notion with environmental stuff."
It is not surprising, he says, that companies such as Toyota, that led the way on quality, are also good at linking 
profitability and sustainability.
Mr Zokaei believes the link is essential, particularly when many people do not believe in man-made climate change.
Vincent Neate, UK head of sustainability at KPMG, agrees. But he thinks that arguing the business case for 
sustainability is too narrow an approach.
"What we talk about . . . is sustainability being a lens that helps you examine your company and helps you manage 
your business in a potentially hostile environment."
Load-Date: May 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to launch new Cardiff-Tenerife route
Ryanair to launch new Cardiff-Tenerife route
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 22, 2014 Thursday 8:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 127 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that it will launch a new Cardiff route to/from Tenerife from October 30, 
2014.
Body
The new route will deliver over 15,000 customers p.a. at Cardiff Airport (Ryanair's 15th UK airport) with a weekly 
service. Ryanair's Deputy Director of Route Development, Kate Sherry said: "Consumers and visitors already 
choose Ryanair for the lowest fares, great route choice and our industry leading customer service. Now they can 
also book their flights on our improved website, carry a free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats and use 
their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families and friends 
booking a winter sun holiday from Cardiff. We also have a new smartphone app, family and business products 
coming soon, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: May 28, 2014
End of Document
China's Comac set to deliver first passenger jets
China's Comac set to deliver first passenger jets
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 21, 2014 Wednesday 7:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 542 words
Byline: LOUISE WATT, Associated Press
Dateline: SHANGHAI 
Body
SHANGHAI (AP) - A state-owned aircraft maker said Wednesday it is ready to deliver China's first homegrown 
regional airliner and should complete a bigger plane in 2018.
The first two of the ARJ21-700 regional jets have been completed for a Chinese carrier, Chengdu Airlines, and are 
coming to the end of the certification process, according to Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China Ltd. The 
company said it has 252 orders.
China launched the ARJ21 project in 2002 in an attempt to break into the Western-dominated aircraft market. The 
plane was promised for 2007 but delivery was pushed back due to technical problems.
China is expected to become one of the world's biggest aircraft markets over the next two decades. Boeing Co. 
forecasts total demand at 5,580 planes worth a total of $780 billion.
The ARJ21-700 can seat 78 to 90 passengers depending on its configuration, with a range of 2,225 to 3,700 
kilometers (1,300 miles to 2,300 miles). Comac said it successfully completed test flights in North America in March 
and April and has flown 13,000 kilometers (8,000 miles).
The company is targeting China's domestic market and flights to Southeast Asia.
"We first want to develop our business in China and then gradually we will go to the international market," Comac 
executive Tian Min told reporters at Comac's assembly and manufacturing center in Shanghai.
Comac's larger C919 is a single-aisle jet meant to compete with Boeing and Airbus Industrie. It can seat up to 168 
passengers and has a planned range of 4,000 to 5,100 kilometers (2,500 to 3,200 miles).
The C919 is an official initiative "for China to re-capture the value in aircraft manufacturing that currently goes 
offshore to Airbus and Boeing," said industry analyst Will Horton of CAPA Centre for Aviation. "With such a large 
objective, accomplishments will come gradually."
China's Comac set to deliver first passenger jets
The company has received 400 orders from 16 customers, including aircraft leasing company GE Capital Aviation 
Services. Low cost carrier Ryanair and British airlines have signed memorandums of understanding about their 
intention to purchase planes, Tian said.
He wouldn't disclose price but said developers were focused on controlling costs.
Most orders have come from China's state-owned airline industry under government instructions to support the 
program.
"Global aviation remains pessimistic on the C919, given the ARJ21 delays," said Horton.
On May 15, the first front fuselage of a C919 was delivered by a supplier to Comac, Tian said. He said the plane will 
be assembled in the second half of 2014, its maiden flight is due at the end of 2015 and the first delivery to a 
customer is slated for 2018.
Longer term, Comac is cooperating with Russia to build a next-generation wide-body plane. The two sides signed a 
memorandum of understanding on Tuesday during Russian President Vladimir Putin's visit to China. Tian said 
Comac is working on a feasibility study with Russia.
From its beginning in 2008, Comac has focused on developing the two passenger planes. It has grown from 3,800 
employees to 8,300.
Earlier news reports said the C919 maiden flight was due in 2014, with delivery in 2016. Tian said those reports 
were wrong, and Comac always planned for its maiden flight to be 90 months from the project launch.
Load-Date: May 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair finding it hard to recruit techs Ryanair Jobs
Ryanair finding it hard to recruit techs; Ryanair Jobs
Business World (Digest)
May 21, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 246 words
Highlight: Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary has told the Wall Street Journal's Live TV that finding highly qualified 
technical and Web staff in Ireland has held back the airline's regeneration plans.
Body
Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary has told the Wall Street Journal's Live TV that finding highly qualified technical and 
Web staff in Ireland has held back the airline's regeneration plans.
He said that, because the airline is based in Ireland he is competing with the likes of Google and Facebook to 
recruit suitably qualified and experienced staff.
He said that the airline has transformed, simplified and modernised its online booking systems but that this difficulty 
in finding the right tech staff represents a problem.
He said changes to its Website has already driven forward sales "significantly higher". "Our forward bookings for 
the Summer period are about five percentage points ahead of last year. When you're an airline carrying 85 million 
passengers a year a 5pc uptick in forward bookings is quite significant," he said. Responding to questions about the 
airline's ambitions to grow a transatlantic business, with reports quoting Ryanair spokespeople as saying they could 
offer E10 tickets between Europe and the US, Mr O'Leary said that now that "regulatory interference" was a thing of 
the past, this is certainly a possibility. "The problem is we can't source a fleet of long distance aircraft. We won't do 
this as Ryanair. We'll set up a sister company. If we could source a fleet of between 30 and 50 longhaul aircraft but 
there's a big backlog in the delivery of those kind of aircraft so it's unlikely to happen in the next four or five years," 
said Mr O'Leary.
Load-Date: May 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair finding it hard to recruit techs Ryanair Jobs
Ryanair finding it hard to recruit techs; Ryanair Jobs
Business World (Digest)
May 21, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 246 words
Highlight: Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary has told the Wall Street Journal's Live TV that finding highly qualified 
technical and Web staff in Ireland has held back the airline's regeneration plans.
Body
Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary has told the Wall Street Journal's Live TV that finding highly qualified technical and 
Web staff in Ireland has held back the airline's regeneration plans.
He said that, because the airline is based in Ireland he is competing with the likes of Google and Facebook to 
recruit suitably qualified and experienced staff.
He said that the airline has transformed, simplified and modernised its online booking systems but that this difficulty 
in finding the right tech staff represents a problem.
He said changes to its Website has already driven forward sales "significantly higher". "Our forward bookings for 
the Summer period are about five percentage points ahead of last year. When you're an airline carrying 85 million 
passengers a year a 5pc uptick in forward bookings is quite significant," he said. Responding to questions about the 
airline's ambitions to grow a transatlantic business, with reports quoting Ryanair spokespeople as saying they could 
offer E10 tickets between Europe and the US, Mr O'Leary said that now that "regulatory interference" was a thing of 
the past, this is certainly a possibility. "The problem is we can't source a fleet of long distance aircraft. We won't do 
this as Ryanair. We'll set up a sister company. If we could source a fleet of between 30 and 50 longhaul aircraft but 
there's a big backlog in the delivery of those kind of aircraft so it's unlikely to happen in the next four or five years," 
said Mr O'Leary.
Load-Date: May 22, 2014
End of Document
Cheaper fares dent Ryanair earnings; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Cheaper fares dent Ryanair earnings; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
May 20, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 444 words
Byline: Andrew Parker in London
Highlight: Airline suffers first decline in five years
Body
Ryanair yesterday reported an 8 per cent fall in net income for 2013-14, its first earnings decline in five years, and 
issued cautious profit guidance for 2014-15.
Europe's largest low-cost carrier by revenue described the profit fall as "disappointing", and blamed the decline on 
cheaper fares, negative exchange rate movements and higher fuel costs.
It sought to reassure investors it could increase earnings in 2014-15 after embarking on a series of improvements to 
its much-criticised customer service , and several analysts said the profit guidance was conservative. Ryanair's 
shares closed up 10.2 per cent at EUR7.00. The company expects profit after tax in 2014-15 to be between 
EUR580m and EUR620m, although it stressed the target was partly dependent on the fares it could secure from 
passengers next winter.
Average fares could fall as much as 8 per cent in the second half of 2014-15, as Ryanair tries to woo business 
travellers by flying more between some of Europe's larger airports.
Last year, the airline surprised several investors with two profit warnings, which it blamed on increased competition, 
weakening demand amid fragile European economic conditions, and sterling's weakness against the euro.
Cheaper fares dent Ryanair earnings; TRAVEL & LEISURE
The company, which last year was voted worst of 100 big brands in the UK market in terms of customer relations by 
readers of consumer magazine Which, pledged significant changes to its digital marketing and image, as well as its 
booking and network strategies.
Some analysts concluded the changes - similar to initiatives by rival easyJet - were an important effort by Ryanair to 
try to ensure success with plans for a new phase of growth based on buying 175 new Boeing aircraft.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, said yesterday that there had been "a perception out there that we did 
not have very good customer service - we are [now] making real and meaningful improvements in the customer 
experience". He added that Ryanair's average fares - or yields - should rise up to 2 per cent in 2014-15, although 
he warned these could fall between 6 and 8 per cent in the second half of the year.
He stressed that expected post-tax profit of EUR580m- EUR620m was therefore "heavily qualified by [second-half] 
yield out-turn, over which we currently have zero visibility".
Ryanair has the leanest cost structure in European aviation, but it expects expenses - excluding fuel - to rise 5 per 
cent in 2014-15, partly because it is flying to more of Europe's larger airports, which have higher landing charges.
These destinations should make the airline more attractive to business travellers who want to fly from airports such 
as Brussels Zaventem.
See Lex
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair blames cheaper fares for slide in earnings TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair blames cheaper fares for slide in earnings; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
May 20, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 14
Length: 204 words
Byline: Andrew Parker in London
Body
Ryanair yesterday reported an 8 per cent fall in net income for 2013-14, its first earnings decline in five years, and 
issued cautious profit guidance for 2014-15.
Europe's largest low-cost carrier by revenue described the profit fall as "disappointing", and blamed the decline on 
cheaper fares, negative exchange rate movements and higher fuel costs.
It sought to reassure investors it could increase earnings in 2014-15 after embarking on a series of improvements to 
its much-criticised customer service , and several analysts said the profit guidance was conservative. Ryanair's 
shares closed up 10.2 per cent at EUR7.00. The company expects profit after tax in 2014-15 to be between 
EUR580m and EUR620m, although it stressed the target was partly dependent on the fares it could secure from 
passengers next winter.
Average fares could fall by as much as 8 per cent in the second half of 2014-15, as Ryanair tries to woo business 
travellers by flying more between some of Europe's larger airports.
The company reported revenue of EUR5bn in the year to March 31, up 3 per cent compared to 2012-13.
Net income fell to EUR523m from EUR569m the year before. Diluted earnings per share fell 6 per cent to EUR0.37.
Andrew Parker 
Ryanair blames cheaper fares for slide in earnings TRAVEL & LEISURE
See Lex
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
The Short View
The Short View
Financial Times (London, England)
May 20, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: THE SHORT VIEW; Pg. 13
Length: 327 words
Byline: James Mackintosh
Body
Investors who want to see what complacency looks like can take a glance at the US equity market. The S&P 500 
has gone 468 days without a correction of 10 per cent, points out Andrew Lapthorne at Société Générale - the 
fourth-longest period since 1970.
But to see what happens after investors become complacent, take a trip across the Atlantic. As investors have 
become less and less worried about risk in the eurozone periphery, they have pushed government bond yields to 
record (or near-record) lows, in spite of huge sovereign debt.
The result has been a reach for risk: investors who had little appetite for risk bought peripheral bonds as they 
searched for yield. Italian and Portuguese banks loaded up with the bonds saw their prices soar, helped by 
investors who thought the banks themselves had become a lot less risky.
While the complacency in equities peaked six weeks ago, it was only when bonds sold off hard last week that the 
true pain began. At their worst yesterday, Italian stocks were in correction territory, down 10 per cent from last 
month's high, as were Portuguese shares ( Ryanair's share price jump yesterday saved Ireland from a correction).
This drop has been led by the same banks that pushed the markets up: the weakest, riskiest stocks, which had 
been in demand, were dumped.
The Short View
Drops of 20 per cent or more among Italian and Portuguese banks from last month are the norm, along with a few 
other weak banks in the region. Spain mostly escaped the bank pain, and the correction, due to the strong 
international position of its largest banks, and its earlier recapitalisation.
Whether this is a mere correction on the route to a normally functioning eurozone financial system, or the start of 
the next crisis, is a matter of conjecture - although the evaporation of hopes for early European Central Bank bond-
buying contributed to the fall.
For now, though, it is healthy to remind investors what is normal. Owners of equities elsewhere, take note.
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair raises hopes after its profits decline
Ryanair raises hopes after its profits decline
City A.M.
May 20, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 338 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
RELIEVED Ryanair investors yesterday took the budget airline's shares 10.6 per cent higher after the firm's first fall 
in profits for five years was less steep than expected.
The Irish airline said net profits fell eight per cent in the year to the end of March to (EURO)523m (£426m), slightly 
above its own prediction of up to (EURO)520m.
Revenues rose three per cent to just over (EURO)5bn, though this was outpaced by a five per cent rise in costs.
Average fares fell four per cent, as Ryanair slashed some prices to try to stir up demand.
The firm expects fares to rise two per cent this year and profits to rise "significantly" to as much as (EURO)620m, 
though it remains "very cautious" about giving guidance for the winter when extra capacity could end up denting its 
prices again.
Ryanair also said it will spend (EURO)35m on advertising and marketing in the coming year, as part of chief 
executive Michael O'Leary's ambition to present the airline as more customer-friendly and, in his words, "stop 
unnecessarily pissing people off".
The firm posted a 17 per cent rise in ancillary revenues to (EURO)1.25bn for the past year, in small part due to the 
introduction of allocated seating in February.
"While disappointing that profits fell eight per cent... we reacted quickly to this weaker environment last September 
by lowering fares and improving our customer experience," O'Leary said. "We expect this combination of a strong 
first half but a weaker second half will generate a significant rise in after-tax profits."
Ryanair raises hopes after its profits decline
RYANAIR'S FIRST FALL IN PROFITS FOR FIVE YEARS 1 EIGHT PER CENT How much Ryanair's net profits fell 
in the financial year. It still made (EURO)523m, beating forecasts.
2 (EURO)35M Ryanair's marketing budget for this year, up from (EURO)10m a year ago. This works out at around 
(EURO)0.50 per passenger.
3 (EURO)500M The amount Ryanair plans to return to investors this year, after a (EURO)482m buyback last year
Ryanair Holdings PLC 16 May 19 May 13 May 14 May 15 May 6.80 6.60 6.40 7.00 7.20 (EURO) 7.02 19 May
Graphic
 
LAURA LEAN/CITY AM
Michael O'Leary has vowed to make the airline more customer-friendly
Load-Date: May 20, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair
Ryanair
Financial Times (London, England)
May 20, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 299 words
Body
As long as the music plays, keep dancing. The tune for European budget airlines may have changed, but Ryanair 
chief executive Michael O'Leary has not missed a step so far. Ryanair's results yesterday, which were slightly 
above expectations, pleased the market. Even better, in the programme notes for the year ahead the company 
promised a good first half with fares up 6 per cent over last year. Cue applause: shares jump 10 per cent.
In recent months Ryanair has splashed out on full-page newspaper advertisements featuring beaming employees. 
The charm offensive has worked so far as bookings appear to attest. Yet a smiling face and a relaxed posture 
conceal furiously dancing feet below. Earnings per share fell on the year despite EUR500m of share buybacks. 
Another EUR500m in returned cash should follow this year, in the form of a special dividend. Management 
promises to return even more cash to shareholders if net cash rises.
However, as Credit Suisse notes, Ryanair may not keep to the same rhythm for the second half of the coming year. 
The company's targets hint at lower fares in the second half (down 6-8 per cent) given the outlook for seat growth. 
Meanwhile, the newfound loveliness will cost: wages (smile fees?) will increase, as will marketing costs. Yes, 
Ryanair has some of the lowest unit costs in the industry, barely half those of easyJet. But now Ryanair wants to 
compete on something other than price: customer service.
Ryanair's shares have underperformed the MSCI European airline index by nearly a quarter over the past year, 
suggesting that the market already understands Mr O'Leary's capacity to entertain on the dance floor. At 12 times 
next year's earnings the shares are not historically cheap. Adding more spangles to uniforms may not add much to 
the performance.
Ryanair
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
Astrazeneca's refusal of Pfizer bid lowers FTSE; LONDON REPORT
Astrazeneca's refusal of Pfizer bid lowers FTSE; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
May 20, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 19
Length: 375 words
Body
BRITAIN'S top shares fell yesterday, dented by a sharp drop in pharmaceutical firm Astrazeneca after it rejected 
rival Pfizer's higher takeover bid.
Astrazeneca dived 11.1 per cent after turning down Pfizer's 55 pounds/share take-it-or-leave-it offer.
That steep decline was the biggest drag on the FTSE 100 by some margin, with the index closing down 11.26 
points, or 0.2 per cent, at 6,844.55 points.
Astrazeneca had risen more than 27 per cent in the month since the first Pfizer bid was reported, and traders said 
that a deal was now unlikely after Pfizer appeared reluctant to engage in a hostile approach.
"With Pfizer saying they won't go hostile, it looks like it is pretty much dead," Will Hedden, sales trader at IG, said.
"The rhetoric from certain government sections about securing jobs in the UK will have been a hurdle and certainly 
put off Astrazeneca shareholders."
Recent price moves had left Astrazeneca trading at a forward price/EPS multiple of 19.5, according to StarMine 
data, compared to 15.5 for Glaxosmithkline and 14.3 for Sanofi , and over double its 10-year median of 9.3.
But following yesterday's share price pull-back, Citi took the opportunity to add Astrazeneca to its Focus List 
Europe.
It reckoned the market still underappreciated Astrazeneca's portfolio in both immune-oncology and the 
management of auto-immune related disease.
Astrazeneca's refusal of Pfizer bid lowers FTSE; LONDON REPORT
The FTSE 100 retraced some of the previous week's 0.6 per cent gain, which saw it touch 14-year highs. On 
Thursday it came within 0.8 per cent of all-time highs set in December 1999.
"With the FTSE 100 close to all-timehigh territory, concerns have once again been raised in relation to valuation, 
which is creating something of a headwind," said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, analyst at Charles Stanley.
In common with Astrazeneca, the broader market is also trading above long-run average valuations. The FTSE 100 
trades at a price to earnings ratio of 13.8, compared to a 10-year average of 11.8, Thomson Reuters Datastream 
showed.
The top two risers were airlines EasyJet, up 4.7 per cent, and International Consolidated Airlines, up 3.5 per cent, 
as forecast-beating results from Irish peer Ryanair buoyed the sector.
FTSE 6,900 6,844.55 19 May 6,840 6,860 6,880 6,820 16 May 19 May 13 May 14 May 15 May
Load-Date: May 20, 2014
End of Document
Imperial Tobacco edges up to record on bid talk LONDON
Imperial Tobacco edges up to record on bid talk; LONDON
Financial Times (London, England)
May 20, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 21
Length: 367 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Imperial Tobacco crept to a record high yesterday after Goldman Sachs reheated bid speculation writes Bryce 
Elder  .
Having been on an investor roadshow with Imperial, Goldman said it was "more convinced that there is genuine 
change happening".
Goldman had a £27.80 target on the stock, which rose 0.1 per cent to £26.65.
The FTSE 100 ended 0.2 per cent lower at 6,844.55, an 11.26 point fall. AstraZeneca cost the index nearly 27 
points by falling 11.1 per cent to £42.88 after it rejected Pfizer's "final" £69bn takeover offer .
Shire , a perennial subject of bid rumours, climbed 2.6 per cent to £33.53. Both Citigroup and Deutsche repeated 
"buy" advice on Shire based on the progress of its lifitegrast dry-eye treatment, which is due to be filed with US 
regulators in the first quarter of 2015.
Airlines reversed weakness after Ryanair said average fares for 2015 would improve. EasyJet added 4.7 per cent 
to £15.87, IAG took on 3.5 per cent to 370.8p and Ryanair was up 10.2 per cent to EUR7.
In belated reaction to Friday's election of the pro-business Bharatiya Janata party in India, Cairn Energy climbed 
3.8 per cent to 188p and Vedanta Resources was up 3.8 per cent to £10.15
Imperial Tobacco edges up to record on bid talk LONDON
India's new government was likely to be sympathetic to Vedanta's problems with power supply and environmental 
permits, said analysts. A deal for Vedanta to buy the state's 29.5 per cent stake in its Hindustan Zinc subsidiary 
should also face fewer hurdles, they said.
Other miners drifted on the back of Chinese data showing a slowdown in new-home price growth. Rio Tinto faded 
1.9 per cent to £32.25 and BHP Billiton was 0.6 per cent lower at £19.42.
Mondi , the packaging maker, rose 2.8 per cent to £10.23 after US industry data for April showed box shipments 
increasing.
Fashion label Supergroup dropped 5.9 per cent to 964p after Oriel Securities turned cautious. Two consecutive 
quarters of weaker-than-expected sales hinted at problems with pricing and advertising strategies as well as a stale 
range, said the broker.
Poundland hit the lowest since its 300p a share flotation in March, losing 3 per cent to 290p. Just Eat also finished 
below its flotation price, dropping 7 per cent to 197p against a placing price of 260p.
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
Imperial Tobacco edges up to record as bid talk rekindled
Imperial Tobacco edges up to record as bid talk rekindled
Financial Times (London, England)
May 20, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: ON LONDON; Pg. 29
Length: 535 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Imperial Tobacco crept to a record high yesterday after Goldman Sachs rekindled longstanding bid speculation.
Having been on an investor roadshow with Imperial, Goldman said it was "more convinced that there is genuine 
change happening".
Most investors "believe a takeover of Imperial Tobacco is unlikely, based on the company's inferior market share 
performance relative to its global peers", said Goldman. But targeted investment in markets such as Italy and 
Australia is cutting Imperial's reliance on underperforming tail brands, which has the potential to make life more 
difficult for its larger rivals, the broker said.
Industry consolidation "not only would drive potential earnings accretion for the acquirer, but also lead to a more 
concentrated market and be supportive to industry pricing power," said Goldman. It had a £27.80 target on the 
stock, which rose 0.1 per cent to £26.65.
The FTSE 100 ended 0.2 per cent lower at 6,844.55, an 11.26 point fall. AstraZeneca cost the index nearly 27 
points by falling 11.1 per cent to £42.88 after it rejected Pfizer's "final" £69bn takeover offer .
Shire , a perennial subject of bid rumours, climbed 2.6 per cent to £33.53. Both Citigroup and Deutsche repeated 
"buy" advice on Shire based on the progress of its lifitegrast dry-eye treatment, which is due to be filed with US 
Imperial Tobacco edges up to record as bid talk rekindled
regulators in the first quarter of 2015. Citi forecast the treatment to generate peak sales of $1.2bn, with a 90 per 
cent probability of approval.
Airlines reversed recent weakness after Ryanair said average fares for 2015 would improve. EasyJet added 4.7 
per cent to £15.87, IAG took on 3.5 per cent to 370.8p and Ryanair was up 10.2 per cent to EUR7.
In belated reaction to Friday's election of the pro-business Bharatiya Janata party in India, Cairn Energy climbed 
3.8 per cent to 188p and Vedanta Resources was up 3.8 per cent to £10.15
India's new government was likely to be sympathetic to Vedanta's problems with power supply and environmental 
permits, said analysts. A deal for Vedanta to buy the state's 29.5 per cent stake in its Hindustan Zinc subsidiary 
should also face fewer hurdles, they said.
Other miners drifted on the back of Chinese data showing a slowdown in new-home price growth. Rio Tinto faded 
1.9 per cent to £32.25 and BHP Billiton was 0.6 per cent lower at £19.42.
Mondi , the packaging maker, rose 2.8 per cent to £10.23 after US industry data for April showed box shipments 
increasing.
Fashion label Supergroup dropped 5.9 per cent to 964p after Oriel Securities turned cautious. Two consecutive 
quarters of weaker-than-expected sales hinted at problems with pricing and advertising strategies as well as a stale 
range, said the broker.
"The last two seasons' ranges may have lacked sufficient newness to attract new and existing customers to make 
purchases," said Oriel. "We are not suggesting that the brand has longevity issues, nor that the overseas expansion 
is inappropriate . . . However we fear that that the multiple does not reflect the risks."
Poundland hit the lowest level since its 300p a share flotation in March, losing 3 per cent to 290p.
Just Eat also finished below its flotation price, dropping 7 per cent to 197p against a placing price of 260p.
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
AstraZeneca and AT&T are big market movers
AstraZeneca and AT&T are big market movers
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 19, 2014 Monday 8:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 246 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Monday on the New York Stock Exchange 
and the Nasdaq Stock Market:
NYSE
AstraZeneca PLC, down $10.41 to $71.05
Investors are not happy about the drugmaker's categorical rejection of a fattened, $119 billion takeover offer from 
Pfizer.
Campbell Soup Co., down $1.06 to $44.06
Despite heavily promoting its iconic soup brands, the foodmaker reported disappointing sales and cut its outlook for 
the year.
AT&T Inc., down 36 cents to $36.38
The telecommunications company will lay out $48.5 billion for DirecTV in a headfirst dive into Internet-delivered 
video.
Abbott Laboratories, up 57 cents to $39.63
Analysts are almost universally in support of the medical device maker's acquisition of CFR Pharmaceuticals for 
nearly $3 billion.
The Walt Disney Co., up 66 cents to $81.05
The entertainment company is near all-time highs as it hikes ticket prices at parks and "Frozen" opens to big 
crowds in Japan.
Nasdaq
AstraZeneca and AT&T are big market movers
Urban Outfitters Inc., down 4 cents to $36.17
There is growing optimism ahead of this quarter's earnings release and Webush named the retailer one of its top 
picks in the sector.
InterMune Inc., up $4.61 to $38.92
There's some buzz about a new study that could point to regulatory approval for the pharmaceutical company's 
treatment for lung disease.
Ryanair Holdings PLC, up $3.70 to $54.68
The first profit drop in five years was outshone by special dividend and what many see as conservative guidance 
from the airline.
Load-Date: May 20, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair upbeat, 1st profit fall in 5 yrs Ryanair Profits
Ryanair upbeat, 1st profit fall in 5 yrs; Ryanair Profits
Business World (Digest)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 491 words
Highlight: Ryanair reported its first fall in profits in five years on Monday on intense competition in European short-
haul, but said higher average ticket prices this summer would help lift profits by up to 20 percent in the coming year.
Body
Ryanair reported its first fall in profits in five years on Monday on intense competition in European short-haul, but 
said higher average ticket prices this summer would help lift profits by up to 20 percent in the coming year.
The Irish airline earned 523 million euros after tax in the year ended March 31, a fall of 8 percent on the previous 
year.
But Ryanair's share price rose 5.5 percent as it forecast its profit in the current year year could climb to 620 million 
euros and the fall last year was slightly better than feared when the airline gave its second profit warning of the year 
in November.
Rivals last year said Ryanair's first profit warnings in a decade were the result of it being forced to cut ticket prices 
after losing business to competitors seen as being more friendly to customers. In response Chief Executive Michael 
O'Leary in September reversed decades of famously austere service, adding seat allocations, easing restrictions on 
hand luggage and cutting penalty charges such as for failing to print out online boarding passes. "While 
disappointing that profits fell 8 percent ... we reacted quickly to this weaker environment last September by lowering 
fares and improving our customer experience," O'Leary said in a statement. "We expect this combination of a 
strong first half but a weaker second half will generate a significant rise in after-tax profits", he said. Ryanair shares 
were up 6.4 percent at 6.75 euros by 0937 GMT, although that was still 14 percent below their all-time high of 7.82 
euros hit before last year's profit warning. While the after-tax profit of 523 million euros was behind last year's 569 
million, it was ahead of guidance given late last year of 500 million to 520 million. It was also ahead of an average 
forecast of 515 million euros given in a company poll of more than 20 analysts. O'Leary said profits in the current 
year should be between 580 million and 620 million euros, an increase of between 11 and 19 percent. That was 
below the average of 634 million given in the Ryanair poll but many analysts see Ryanair as being routinely 
cautious in forecasting future profits. "Their guidance is conservative. But I think the market will take that guidance 
Ryanair upbeat, 1st profit fall in 5 yrs Ryanair Profits
as dependent on (fare) yields falling in the winter and they say they have zero visibility," said Stephen Furlong, an 
analyst with Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin. Ryanair expects to see average fares increase 6 percent in the key 
summer months compared to the same period a year earlier. Rival easyJet last week forecast growth in revenue 
per seat yields "in the low single digits" for the same period. Ryanair's average fares will fall by between 6 percent 
and 8 percent in the six months to March as the first of 180 new Boeing jets are delivered, Millar said. The airline 
expects passenger numbers to increase 4 percent to 84.6 million in the current year, consolidating its position as 
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers.
Load-Date: May 21, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rebound led by Ryanair shares ISEQ Rebound
ISEQ rebound led by Ryanair shares; ISEQ Rebound
Business World (Digest)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 281 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rebounded strongly today, helped by a robust showing by Ryanair following its full year 
statement and outlook.
Body
The ISEQ rebounded strongly today, helped by a robust showing by Ryanair following its full year statement and 
outlook.
The index was up 12252 points to 4,776.61.
Ryanair stocks jumped 67c to E7.02. Ryanair reported its first fall in profits in five years on intense competition in 
European short-haul, but said higher average ticket prices this summer would help lift profits by up to 20 percent in 
the coming year. The Irish airline earned 523 million euros after tax in the year ended March 31, a fall of 8 percent 
on the previous year. But Ryanair's share price rose as it forecast its profit in the current year could climb to 620 
million euros and the fall last year was slightly better than feared when the airline gave its second profit warning of 
the year in November.
Shares in IFG fell 1c to E1.63 after it said its various businesses have traded strongly this year so far and that its full 
year results will be in line with expectations. In an interim management statement for the months from January to 
the end of April, IFG said momentum has been sustained in its core businesses with James Hay Partnership, 
Saunderson House and IFG Ireland continuing to win new clients and assets. Irish Continental Group shares fell 
53c to E27.50 after it today reported a wider pre-tax loss for the four months to March, despite a growth in 
revenues. Loss before tax widened to 4.3 million euros from 3.1 million euros a year ago. Operating costs, before 
depreciation and amortisation, increased by 9pc to E73.8 million from E67.7 million last year, chiefly reflecting 
higher costs of operating the 'Epsilon.' Core earnings or EBITDA stood at E2.9 million, compared to E4.8 million a 
year ago.
Load-Date: May 22, 2014
ISEQ rebound led by Ryanair shares ISEQ Rebound
End of Document
Ryanair shares lift ISEQ higher ISEQ Up
Ryanair shares lift ISEQ higher; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 287 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rebounded strongly in morning trading today, helped by a strong showing by Rysnair following 
its full year statement and outlook.
Body
The ISEQ rebounded strongly in morning trading today, helped by a strong showing by Rysnair following its full year 
statement and outlook.
By 14:30, the index was up 110.71 points to 4,764.80.
Ryanair stocks jumped 63c to E6.98. Ryanair reported its first fall in profits in five years on intense competition in 
European short-haul, but said higher average ticket prices this summer would help lift profits by up to 20 percent in 
the coming year. The Irish airline earned 523 million euros after tax in the year ended March 31, a fall of 8 percent 
on the previous year. But Ryanair's share price rose as it forecast its profit in the current year year could climb to 
620 million euros and the fall last year was slightly better than feared when the airline gave its second profit warning 
of the year in November.
Shares in IFG fell 2c to E1.62 after it said its various businesses have traded strongly this year so far and that its full 
year results will be in line with expectations. In an interim management statement for the months from January to 
the end of April, IFG said momentum has been sustained in its core businesses with James Hay Partnership, 
Saunderson House and IFG Ireland continuing to win new clients and assets. Irish Continental Group shares rose 
1c to E28.04 after it today reported a wider pre-tax loss for the four months to March, despite a growth in revenues. 
Loss before tax widened to 4.3 million euros from 3.1 million euros a year ago. Operating costs, before depreciation 
and amortization, increased by 9pc to E73.8 million from E67.7 million last year, chiefly reflecting higher costs of 
operating the 'Epsilon.' Core earnings or EBITDA stood at E2.9 million, compared to E4.8 million a year ago.
Load-Date: May 22, 2014
Ryanair shares lift ISEQ higher ISEQ Up
End of Document
UK Market Declines, AstraZeneca Plunges
UK Market Declines, AstraZeneca Plunges
RTT News (United States)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 370 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market is trading lower on Monday, following weak cues from Asia, after drugmaker 
AstraZeneca rejected an improved and final offer from Pfizer Inc. Mining stocks were hit on concerns that China's 
property sector is cooling.
In economic news, Eurozone March construction orders slid 0.6 percent on month, compared to a growth of 0.4 
percent in February.
The average asking price for a house in the United Kingdom jumped 3.6 percent on month in May, property tracking 
website Rightmove said on Monday. That follows the 2.6 percent increase in April
Meanwhile, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said the housing market has "deep deep" problems and it 
represents the biggest risk to the economy.
In an interview with Sky News, Carney said insufficient number of houses is the issue around the housing market. 
"We're not going to build a single house at the Bank of England," he said. "We can't influence that."
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is losing 1.08 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is falling 1.06 percent.
The FTSE 100 index is currently falling 0.53 percent.
AstraZeneca is declining 13 percent after its board rejected the final proposal firm US-based Pfizer.
Miners Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton are losing 2.3 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively.
Ryanair is climbing 7.3 percent. The low-cost airline sees increased profit and traffic for fiscal 2015. Peer easyJet 
added 1.3 percent.
Other major markets in the region are also trading lower.
The Asian stocks fell broadly on concerns that China's property sector is cooling sapped investor appetite for riskier 
assets.
In the U.S., futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks finished modestly higher, 
as investors digested some solid retail earnings reports as well as mixed housing starts and consumer sentiment 
UK Market Declines, AstraZeneca Plunges
data. The Dow rose 0.3 percent, the tech-heavy Nasdaq gained half a percent and the S&P 500 advanced 0.4 
percent.
Crude for June delivery is gaining $0.72 to $102.74 per barrel, while gold is adding $6.7 to $1300.1 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
European Markets Fall, AstraZeneca Slumps
European Markets Fall, AstraZeneca Slumps
RTT News (United States)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 518 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are trading lower on Monday, following weak cues from Asia, after UK-based 
drugmaker AstraZeneca rejected an improved and final offer from Pfizer Inc. Mining stocks were hit on concerns 
that China's property sector is cooling.
In economic news, Eurozone March construction orders slid 0.6 percent on month, compared to a growth of 0.4 
percent in February.
Elsewhere, the average asking price for a house in the United Kingdom jumped 3.6 percent on month in May, 
property tracking website Rightmove said on Monday. That follows the 2.6 percent increase in April
Meanwhile, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said the housing market has "deep deep" problems and it 
represents the biggest risk to the economy.
In an interview with Sky News, Carney said insufficient number of houses is the issue around the housing market. 
"We're not going to build a single house at the Bank of England," he said. "We can't influence that."
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is losing 0.74 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is falling 0.90 percent.
The German DAX, the French CAC 40, the UK's FTSE 100 and Switzerland's SMI are losing between 0.4 percent 
and 0.7 percent.
In Frankfurt, Commerzbank is declining 4.6 percent. Deutsche Bank is losing 1.8 percent after the lender 
announced Sunday plans to raise about 8 billion euros of capital through the sale of 360 million new shares.
Tiremaker Continental is sliding 1.9 percent. Carmakers Volkswagen and Daimler are moderately lower.
Salzgitter is gaining 2.8 percent. JPMorgan raised the stock to ''Overweight'' from ''Neutral.''
In Paris, Societe Generale, Credit Agricole and BNP Paribas are losing between 3.3 percent and 1.6 percent.
Renault is falling 1.6 percent and Alcatel Lucent is losing 1.3 percent.
European Markets Fall, AstraZeneca Slumps
Alstom is gaining 2.2 percent. U.S. conglomerate General Electric Co. is said to be in early-stage talks with nuclear-
plant maker Areva SA and other French companies about asset sales or partnerships to win regulatory approval for 
the $17 billion deal.
In London, AstraZeneca is declining 13 percent after its board rejected the final proposal from US-based Pfizer.
Miners Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton are losing 2.3 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively.
Ryanair is climbing 7.3 percent. The low-cost airline sees increased profit and traffic for fiscal 2015. Peer easyJet 
added 1.3 percent.
The Asian stocks fell broadly on concerns that China's property sector is cooling sapped investor appetite for riskier 
assets.
In the U.S., futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks finished modestly higher, 
as investors digested some solid retail earnings reports as well as mixed housing starts and consumer sentiment 
data. The Dow rose 0.3 percent, the tech-heavy Nasdaq gained half a percent and the S&P 500 advanced 0.4 
percent.
Crude for June delivery is gaining $0.65 to $102.67 per barrel, while gold is adding $6.6 to $1300.0 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Flat After Choppy Session
European Stocks Flat After Choppy Session
RTT News (United States)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 278 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks were narrowly mixed on Monday after losing ground on renewed worries about the 
euro zone economy last week.
Stocks recovered from steep early losses by mid-day, leaving most of the major averages little changed from the 
previous session.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks inched down 0.07 percent.
The German DAX added 0.31 percent, the French CAC 40 rose 0.3 percent and the UK's FTSE 100 slipped 0.16 
percent.
AstraZeneca plunged 11.1 percent after its board rejected the final proposal from US-based Pfizer.
Ryanair jumped 8.3 percent. The low-cost airline sees increased profit and traffic for fiscal 2015.
In Frankfurt, Commerzbank lost 2.6 percent.
Deutsche Bank fell 1.8 percent after the lender announced plans to raise about 8 billion euros of capital through the 
sale of 360 million new shares.
Alstom rose 2.5 percent in Paris.
General Electric Co. is said to be in early-stage talks with nuclear-plant maker Areva SA and other French 
companies about asset sales or partnerships to win regulatory approval for a $17 billion deal for Alstom.
In economic news, Eurozone March construction orders slid 0.6 percent on month, compared to a growth of 0.4 
percent in February.
Elsewhere, the average asking price for a house in the United Kingdom jumped 3.6 percent on month in May, 
property tracking website Rightmove said on Monday. That follows the 2.6 percent increase in April
Meanwhile, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said the housing market has "deep deep" problems and it 
represents the biggest risk to the economy.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
European Stocks Flat After Choppy Session
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair FY Profit After Tax Down 8% - Quick Facts
Ryanair FY Profit After Tax Down 8% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 201 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) posted 8% lower full-year net profit of 523 
million euros, versus last year's 569 million euros, chiefly due to a 4% decline in fares, weaker sterling, and higher 
fuel costs. The firm said it reacted quickly to this weaker environment last September by lowering fares and 
improving its customer experience, that caused traffic in the second half to grow 4% as load factors improved by 
1%. On a per share basis, basic earnings came in at 36.96 euro cents, down 6%, compared with the prior year's 
39.45 euro cents.
IFRS revenue for the year amounted to 4.9 billion euros, a 3% increase from 5.04 billion euros reported a year 
back. Ancillary revenues advanced by 17%, much faster than traffic growth, and now accounts for 25% of total 
revenues.
For the year, traffic grew by 3% year-on-year to 81.7 million passengers, from 79.3 million passengers.
Looking ahead to fiscal 2015, the company expects traffic to increase 4% to over 84.6 million as load factors 
increase by 2% to 85% and it adds some limited new route and capacity growth.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
Correction: Ryanair FY Profit After Tax Down 8% - Quick Facts
Correction: Ryanair FY Profit After Tax Down 8% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Body
(RTTNews) - correction: corrects FY revenue figures in the second para.
Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) posted 8% lower full-year net profit of 523 million euros, 
versus last year's 569 million euros, chiefly due to a 4% decline in fares, weaker sterling, and higher fuel costs. The 
firm said it reacted quickly to this weaker environment last September by lowering fares and improving its customer 
experience, that caused traffic in the second half to grow 4% as load factors improved by 1%. On a per share basis, 
basic earnings came in at 36.96 euro cents, down 6%, compared with the prior year's 39.45 euro cents.
IFRS revenue for the year amounted to 5.04 billion euros, a 3% increase from 4.9 billion euros reported a year 
back. Ancillary revenues advanced by 17%, much faster than traffic growth, and now accounts for 25% of total 
revenues.
For the year, traffic grew by 3% year-on-year to 81.7 million passengers, from 79.3 million passengers.
Looking ahead to fiscal 2015, the company expects traffic to increase 4% to over 84.6 million as load factors 
increase by 2% to 85% and it adds some limited new route and capacity growth.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair FY14 Profit Down, Sees Growth In FY15 Profit, Traffic; Stock Rises
Ryanair FY14 Profit Down, Sees Growth In FY15 Profit, Traffic; Stock Rises
RTT News (United States)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 537 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Monday a decline in fiscal 2014 
profit, mainly reflecting a 4 percent drop in fares, weaker Sterling, and higher fuel costs. Revenues increased with 
higher ancillary revenues and traffic. Looking ahead, the company projects increased profit and traffic for fiscal 
2015. In London, the stock is gaining around 5 percent in the morning trading.
For the year 2014, the company's net profit, on IFRS basis, declined 8 percent to 523 million euros from last year's 
569 million euros. Earnings per share dropped 6 percent to 36.96 euro cents from 39.45 euro cents a year ago.
Revenue for the year amounted to 5.04 billion euros, a 3 percent increase from 4.88 billion euros reported a year 
back. Ancillary revenues advanced 17 percent, much faster than traffic growth, and now accounts for 25 percent of 
total revenues, the company said.
Traffic grew 3 percent to 81.7 million passengers from 79.3 million passengers in the previous year. Load factor 
increased 1 percent to 83 percent.
Revenue per passenger was flat, as strong ancillary revenue growth offset a fall in average fares. Excluding fuel, 
sector length adjusted unit costs declined 3 percent.
In a weaker environment, the company noted that it lowered its fares and improved customer experience, resulting 
in second-half traffic growing 4 percent as load factors improved by 1 percent.
The company further noted that its forward bookings for Summer 14 are significantly ahead of last year since it 
began offering lower fares and released seasonal schedules earlier, and would continue to deliver 2 percent higher 
load factors.
Looking ahead to fiscal 2015, Ryanair expects a strong first half, but a weaker second half, would generate a 
significant increase in after tax profits to a range between 580 million euros and 620 million euros.
The company expects traffic to increase 4 percent to over 84.6 million as load factors increase 2 percent to 85 
percent and with the addition of some limited new route and capacity growth.
According to the firm, most of the projected traffic growth would be skewed towards the second half as it reduce 
winter grounding to approximately 50 aircraft in fiscal 2015 from 70 aircraft last year.
Ryanair FY14 Profit Down, Sees Growth In FY15 Profit, Traffic; Stock Rises
The company also expects fares to rise by up to 2 percent in the new year, following a decline last year. The first-
half fares would rise by up to 6 percent due in part to Easter, stable growth in the second quarter, and stronger 
forward bookings and load factors.
Meanwhile, the company remains very cautious about the second half due to last winter's weak price environment, 
and expects its commitment to 6 percent capacity growth could cause fares in this period to fall by as much as 6 
percent to 8 percent.
Ryanair also projects flat unit costs, while fuel costs will be lower than last year as 90 percent are hedged.
Further, Ryanair said it would return a further 500 million euros to shareholders in the fourth quarter through a 
special dividend subject to AGM approval.
In London, Ryanair stock is gaining 0.30 euros or 4.69 percent, and trading at 6.65 euros.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 19, 2014
End of Document
O'Leary rings the changes in Ryanair remodelling TRAVEL & LEISURE
O'Leary rings the changes in Ryanair remodelling; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
May 19, 2014 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 823 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: News analysis
Second-largest carrier in Europe is trying hard to alter its public image, writes Jane Wild
Body
When Ryanair opened its new Dublin headquarters this year, furnished with pinball machine, a giant chessboard 
and an indoor slide for staff, the inspiration may have been Google but the tone remained distinctly Michael O'Leary 
.
"Warning: the slide is not suitable for pregnant women, those with existing injuries or gobshites," a sign next to the 
slide read.
While its chief executive might not have changed much, the company has been trying harder to revamp its image 
after two successive profit warnings towards the end of last year spurred a rethink. The group, which is Europe's 
second-largest carrier by passengers, is due to report its full-year results today.
Blaming weaker demand and greater competition, Ryanair warned in November that full-year profits would not 
come in towards EUR600m as forecast, but at more like EUR500m-EUR520m. It would be the first decline in profits 
for five years and was far off the analysts' mark of EUR650m.
Two weeks later, rival easyJet announced that its profits had leapt 51 per cent to £478m. Allocated seats, a better 
website and a focus on customer service were part of the formula for its success.
O'Leary rings the changes in Ryanair remodelling TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair launched its transformation programme in September after its first profit warning, and the group has rolled 
out a number of changes, including a new public face - Kenny Jacobs, head of marketing, a role Mr O'Leary had 
previously described as being best done by "bad publicity".
Mr Jacobs, appointed this year, says that despite Mr O'Leary handing over the marketing reins, his boss will not be 
falling silent.
"People would hate for Michael to be saying less ," Mr Jacobs said. "People like a straight-talking CEO. There's not 
enough of them in Europe."
But Mr O'Leary might find it a tough act to strike the right balance between being outspoken while conveying a 
friendlier, cuddlier Ryanair.
After a three-course lunch and presentation on the changes for journalists at London's Design Museum - a 
transformation compared to former, more basic, company events - Mr O'Leary strode out of the restaurant firing a 
parting shot: "That was my entire last-quarter profit you've been eating."
Profits have also been invested into a more user-friendly website launched last month. While it does not quite 
deliver the five-click booking it promises, it does simplify the process. The airline offers its tickets through global 
distribution systems, has introduced allocated seating and made television adverts. A mobile app and deals for 
families and business travellers are in the pipeline.
Not all the changes have gone smoothly - technical problems led to search engines failing to rank Ryanair flights 
highly. A search for "cheap flights to Italy" does not mention the group on the first results page.
The Irish carrier, lambasted for flying into tiny airports miles from the cities it named, has also begun overhauling its 
network in favour of more popular primary airports. It has dropped 222 routes since August - ditching destinations 
such as Brussels Charleroi and Girona in favour of Brussels and Barcelona - according to research last week from 
anna.aero.
But its network trails that of easyJet, which has been steadily building its presence at key airports for a decade or 
so, gaining highly prized slots at airports such as Paris Orly.
The problem with Ryanair trying to change tack suddenly, according to branding consultant Shaun Smith, is that its 
culture has been built around saving money rather than satisfying customers.
While its changes could bring short-term benefits, there was no quick fix to replace the lengthy time it would take to 
overhaul its organisation, he says, or build affection for the brand among the public.
"What you then end up with is almost a dissonance within the organisation . . . a classic 'stuck in the middle' 
strategy where you become neither one thing nor another," says Mr Smith, who has forecast the airline's strategy 
will drive customers away.
Mr Jacobs admits that Ryanair's transformation will take time - two years - but insists "we will develop an emotional 
connection".
Analysts, too, question Ryanair's attempt to shift upmarket and attract higher-value passengers such as business 
travellers, as easyJet has successfully been doing. Mark Manduca, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, 
says: "The question for many people is: can they migrate towards a more easyJet-type model?"
Tougher competition on the horizon promises to make that difficult. Gone are the days when Ryanair and easyJet 
were the sole big beasts of European low-cost flying. Challengers such as Vueling, Norwegian, Germanwings and 
Pegasus are vying for fares and bringing extra capacity into the market.
With 180 Boeing 737-800 aircraft on order, Ryanair must win over a lot of new customers in the coming years. Mr 
Jacobs says the changes are bringing results - forward bookings are ahead of last year.
O'Leary rings the changes in Ryanair remodelling TRAVEL & LEISURE
"We are the good guys," he said.
"And no one can come near us on low fares."
Load-Date: May 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair considers flights to the US Ryanair US?
Ryanair considers flights to the US; Ryanair US?
Business World (Digest)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 164 words
Highlight: Low-cost carrier Ryanair plans to offer flights to the United States by 2019 and will lure long-distance 
passengers with very cheap prices, Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported, citing chief executive 
Michael O'Leary.
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair plans to offer flights to the United States by 2019 and will lure long-distance passengers 
with very cheap prices, Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported, citing chief executive Michael O'Leary.
"We will start with this as soon as we get the planes," O'Leary told the newspaper in an interview.
New aircraft are currently too expensive and out of stock due to heavy orders by Gulf airlines such as Emirates, the 
CEO said.
Tickets for U.S.-bound flights could be sold at a net price of 10 euros (8.14 pounds), excluding extra costs for 
luggage, food and entertainment, O'Leary said, insisting that the offer was not a marketing stunt to grab public 
attention. "We have a finished business plan (for long-distance routes) in the drawer," he said. Competition among 
European discount carriers is intensifying, with Norwegian Air offering long-distance flights and EasyJet adding 
planes. Ryanair said last month it was planning to expand at Cologne airport.
Load-Date: May 21, 2014
End of Document
O'Leary: Ireland is not a tax haven O'Leary On Tax
O'Leary: Ireland is not a tax haven; O'Leary On Tax
Business World (Digest)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 191 words
Highlight: Ireland has been "unfairly singled out" as a tax haven for corporations, Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary 
said today on CNBC in the US.
Body
Ireland has been "unfairly singled out" as a tax haven for corporations, Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said today on 
CNBC in the US.
"I wish we were, but we're not," he said.
O'Leary also described as "egregious" personal tax rates there. "The top tax rate ... is about 58pc but you get there 
on dollar 25,000."
But corporate tax rates are much lower in Ireland than in the United States. "Most companies are paying high 
single-digit [effective] rates of tax." Because of that, O'Leary said in a "Squawk Box" interview, "(Ireland) has been 
very attractive to forward inward investment, particularly for U.S. companies." A year ago, Apple came under fire in 
Washington, with lawmakers saying the company kept billions of dollars in profits in Irish subsidiaries and paid little 
or no taxes to any government. "We're not some tax free country," O'Leary said. "We're not the Cayman Islands. 
We're not some kind of off-shore, zero tax place." But he did admit: "Corporation tax rates are relatively low by 
European standards." "Everything is low compared to the French rates of tax," he said. "That's why the French 
economy doesn't work particularly well."
Load-Date: May 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair full year profits dip by 8 PC Ryanair dip
Ryanair full year profits dip by 8 PC; Ryanair dip
Business World (Digest)
May 19, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 147 words
Highlight: Ryanair has reported a full year net profit of E523m - a drop of 8pc on the previous year but ahead of the 
airline's guidance.
Body
Ryanair has reported a full year net profit of E523m - a drop of 8pc on the previous year but ahead of the airline's 
guidance.
It also marked its first decline in annual profit in five years.
Ryanair carried just under 82 million passengers during the 12 months to the end of March and generated E5 billion 
in revenue - an increase of 3pc.
Revenue per passenger was flat, as strong ancillary revenue growth offset a 4pc fall in average fares. For the year 
ahead, Ryanair is predicting a significant increase in profit to a range of between E580m and E620m. Ryanair said 
it will ground fewer aircraft during winter and it also expects average fares to rise by 2pc driven by stronger 
demand. Fares fell 4pc over the past 12 months. The airline said its forward bookings for Summer are ahead of last 
year. It said this should continue to deliver 2pc higher load factors according to RTE News.
Load-Date: May 21, 2014
End of Document
Taking stock: earnings season is under way in Ireland Inc
Taking stock: earnings season is under way in Ireland Inc
Sunday Business Post
May 18, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 865 words
Body
'A lot done, more to do,   ran the now infamous Fianna Fáil election slogan from 2002. As we gear up for yet 
another election season, the phrase has fresh significance when it comes to the companies listed on the Irish Stock 
Exchange.
With results from the likes of Aer Lingus and Smurfit Kappa already in May, last week saw results from UTV, TVC, 
Green Reit, Glanbia, Paddy Power, Petroceltic and Fyffes, in total comprising more than 10 per cent of the Iseq's 
total market capitalisation.
This week will see even more data emerging from the Iseq, with Ryanair and C&C releasing their full year results, 
Permanent TSB and Datalex holding their annual general meetings, and Irish Continental Group releasing a trading 
statement.
Meanwhile, of the formerly Iseq-listed companies now listed in London, United Drug released half-year results last 
week, while Greencore will announce its ones this week.
   One of our key themes at the start of the year was that earnings growth in general would be quite benign this year 
across the board, and that many companies would struggle to justify the elevated multiples they were trading on at 
the end of 2013,   said David Donnelly of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Robert Eason of Goodbody agreed.    If you look at the aggregate indices, they haven't shifted too much. If you look 
at the Dow Jones, it's been hovering around the 16,500 to 16,000 level [while] FTSE has just been oscillating 
between 6,500 and 6,800,   he said, further reflecting the general trend.
And the concept of Ireland Inc may be weaker than in the past, at least as it pertains to the Iseq, some markets 
experts point out.
   A direct consequence of the financial meltdown is that the financial crisis reduced the correlation   between the 
Irish economy and the Irish stock exchange, according to Brian Weber of Dublin investment firm Quilter Cheviot.
Taking stock: earnings season is under way in Ireland Inc
So while    business activity is generally up [and] there's no doubt there's a recovery going on and some domestic 
companies are seeing that, it's mostly urban-centric and predominantly the companies with a more international 
focus  .
Glanbia, for example, has been at the forefront of a trend where food companies generally position themselves 
beyond Ireland.
Glanbia's Irish food business continued to tread water last year, with first quarter revenues only in line with the 
previous year's figure, while the firm's international nutrition business grew steadily. Revenues at Glanbia increased 
17 per cent in the three months to April 5 compared to the same period last year.
   The firm's strategy is clearly being executed, and its brand strength in the US and roll-out into 19 international 
markets are driving significant market share increases globally,   said Alex Howson of Jefferies & Company.
Some companies do provide some insight into the domestic economy, however. Conall MacCoille of Davy said UTV 
was    a nice domestic demand story  .
   If you look at [UTV's] Irish radio revenue, it's up 6 per cent,   in the first quarter of 2014, he said, which suggested 
greater demand for advertising slots and more confidence in retail sales.
Overall, revenues at UTV Media rose 7 per cent in the first three months of the year, the company reported, as 
trading conditions improved in the run-up to the 2014 World Cup this summer, with TalkSport performing strongly. 
Its new Irish television station will launch next year.
David O'Brien at Shore Capital said:    The results were in line with expectations [and] overall, we are now 
expecting modest growth in earnings.  
Rachel Cairns at Goodbody agreed.    There is encouraging momentum in revenue growth and, in the first half of 
the year, UTV is looking at 12 per cent growth,   she said.
Most companies on the Iseq, however, are largely decoupled from the Irish economy.
Paddy Power released its interim management statement last week, as well as the news that its chief executive, 
Patrick Kennedy, would be stepping down next year.
   The news has naturally caused investors some concern,   said David Jennings, equity analyst at Davy.
   When investors hear of a departure like that, they take stock and assess whether the prospects for the business 
remain as positive as they have been to date.
   There will probably be a period of heightened scrutiny now as a result. As such, we don't expect the stock to 
advance until this period of uncertainty has passed.  
The company's results last week were less than eye-popping. Ivor Jones of Numis Securities described the 
increase of 5 per cent in total revenue at Paddy Power as    not spectacular  .
Meanwhile, banana giant Fyffes, one of the stalwarts of the Irish stock exchange, is to merge with bigger rival 
Chiquita and will soon delist.
David Holohan of Merrion Capital said that while it was always unfortunate to lose companies, Fyffes' case was 
different to the departures of United Drug or DCC, which left the Irish Stock Exchange to list in London. For starters, 
it's a merger, not an equity emigration, and moreover    it's offset somewhat by the listing of [new companies like] 
the Reits and Mincon  , he said.    [Comparing] the market cap of Fyffes versus some of the newly floated 
companies, it's a net gain.  
A lot done, more to do.
Taking stock: earnings season is under way in Ireland Inc
Load-Date: May 18, 2014
End of Document
Digital Media & Marketing Summit: Digital summit 2014 to focus on key trends
Digital Media & Marketing Summit: Digital summit 2014 to focus on key 
trends
Sunday Business Post
May 18, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMERCIAL REPORTS
Length: 441 words
Body
The digital media sector is in a constant state of flux, and those who want to keep apace need to ensure that they 
stay up to speed with key developments. Summit organiser Adrian Hopkins said:    We purposely decided to cover 
a number of key trends and developments in the sector rather than be limited to a single theme. Our four areas for 
discussion this year are UX - the user experience, search, analytics and measurement, and mobile as the primary 
device.  
Alan Coleman chief executive of award winning Wolfgang Digital agreed about the rate of change and the need for 
marketing managers in particular to stay in touch.    A year is a long time in digital, even six months is a long time, 
the rate of innovation is frightening and it is accelerating.  
He added:    It's a full time job just staying on top of the up-dates and innovations. If your digital marketing 
campaigns haven't evolved for six months you could find yourself a dozen innovations behind.  
He urged marketing managers to attend the Digital Media and Marketing Summit.    The way we research and 
arrive at purchasing decisions, be it a car or dinner on Friday, is very different to six years ago and a lot of those 
decisions are made online, so marketers must know how to best engage with that audience.  
Speakers at the Digital Media and Marketing Summit 2014 include Michael Faley, head of search, with Google 
Ireland, Reuben May, head of digital marketing, Ryanair, Denis Bree, UK and Ireland sales manager, Twitter, 
James Carr, client solutions manager, e-commerce, Facebook, Alan Coleman, chief executive of Wolfgang Digital 
and Adrian O'Flynn, digital marketing leader with the charity Concern Worldwide, among many others.
   We chose speakers who are willing and giving. They are known to be very generous when it comes to sharing 
their expertise and that's what's important at an event like this. We want delegates to go back to their office with a 
lot more knowledge than when they left it,   said Hopkins.
Digital Media & Marketing Summit: Digital summit 2014 to focus on key trends
He added:    The day will comprise a series of short, sharp, insightful presentations, delivered by speakers who are 
at the cutting edge of this sector. If you want to know what's happening in the world of digital marketing right now 
and what trends are coming down the tracks, then attendance at this summit is a must.
   Events like this can't take place without sponsors and we are fortunate and grateful for the support of Ballywire, 
Wolfgang Digital, CPL Recruitment, iReach, Siteimprove and the Digital Marketing Institute,   concluded Hopkins.
For further details and registration for this year's Digital Media and Marketing Summit, visit: digitalsummit.ie
Load-Date: May 18, 2014
End of Document
Fitch rates Ryanair BBB+, outlook stable; Ryanair Rating
Fitch rates Ryanair BBB+, outlook stable; Ryanair Rating
Business World (Digest)
May 16, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 407 words
Highlight: Fitch Ratings has assigned Ryanair Holdings a 'BBB+' Long-term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) with a 
Stable outlook.
Body
Fitch Ratings has assigned Ryanair Holdings a 'BBB+' Long-term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) with a Stable outlook.
Ryanair's low cost advantage and substantial liquidity are key drivers of the rating, it said.
"The company's high margins, significant cash generation, and financial flexibility further differentiate RYA from 
most airline peers. RYA's solid capacity for meeting its financial commitments is also supported by the company's 
relatively flexible cost structure, low break-even load factor, and robust hedging programmes for fuel and 
currencies. RYA has delivered strong financial results for the past three years despite a lacklustre demand 
environment and relatively high fuel costs, and Fitch expects the company's results to continue to show strength 
while it begins taking delivery of new aircraft over the next five years. The company's low fleet age, fleet 
commonality and other elements of it business model also support the ratings. RYA's financial metrics are generally 
strong for the rating, with the exception of gross leverage, but this is offset by low net leverage metrics driven by the 
company's large cash position," it said.
"Overall, Ryanair's conservative and simplified business model tempers the impact of the financial leverage and 
operating leverage that are characteristic of the airline industry. The business model is designed not just to achieve 
industry-low costs but also to mitigate some of the key risks in the sector. The company's financial strength, 
including strong cash liquidity, is a key element of this low-cost/reduced-risk strategy. RYA's leading cost position, 
liquidity, high margins and significant cash generation give it the ability to withstand the inevitable shocks that 
periodically hit the airline industry, as well as fending off competitive threats." Reacting to the rating, Ryanair today 
said: "We are pleased with the Fitch rating of BBB+, our second in as many months, following Standard and Poor's 
BBB+ rating, which makes Ryanair the highest rated airline in the world and reflects the financial strength of 
Ryanair's business model." "The successful achievement of these BBB+ ratings is part of our plan to access capital 
markets for low cost finance to purchase our 180 new Boeing 737-800 aircraft. These BBB+ ratings will enable 
Fitch rates Ryanair BBB+, outlook stable; Ryanair Rating
Ryanair to achieve lower cost financing to ensure that we continue to have the lowest costs and offer the lowest 
fares in Europe for our customers.
Load-Date: May 21, 2014
End of Document
Routes axed as Ryanair remodels plan Ryanair Routes
Routes axed as Ryanair remodels plan; Ryanair Routes
Business World (Digest)
May 14, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 338 words
Highlight: Ryanair has actually cut the number of routes it has on offer as its new business plan shifts emphasis 
from small regional airports to larger hubs.
Body
Ryanair has actually cut the number of routes it has on offer as its new business plan shifts emphasis from small 
regional airports to larger hubs.
This summer the airline will be operating fewer routes than it did last summer, according to an analysis from 
anna.aero, an industry insider publication.
The number of flights (and hence seat capacity) will be up, but not by much, less than 1pc according anna.aero's 
analysis of schedule data for the first week of August).
Meanwhile, the number of routes operated will have fallen by a net 84, from 1,396 last August to 1,312 this August. 
It said that Ryanair has introduced 138 new routes across its network that it was not operating last summer. 
However, it has dropped a massive 222 routes. A closer look at the data by airport reveals at which airports Ryanair 
has swung its route-chopping axe the hardest. Ryanair's secondary airports serving such major cities as Barcelona, 
Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Milan, Oslo and Stockholm have seen the biggest number of net route droppings (which 
takes into account new routes as well as dropped routes). Ryanair has added 112 flights per week to Fiumicino, the 
biggest and most expensive airport in Italy. It has added 91 flights per week to the main airport in Brussels, 79 to 
Athens, 66 to Lisbon, and 53 to Barcelona. Ryanair previously served the Catalan city mostly through Girona, which 
is 92 km from Barcelona, but it has axed 59 flights per week from Girona this summer. It also cut 65 flights per week 
from Charleroi, which is 46 km from Brussels city centre, and 73 flights per week from Weeze, which is 70 km from 
Dusseldorf. Ryanair has previously announced it will chase more market share from business travellers, who pay 
higher fares to fly to more convenient locations. Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary has previously said the 
only airports it will never fly to are London Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle, Paris Orly, and Frankfurt Main. The 
airline declined to comment last night as it is in a closed financial period.
Routes axed as Ryanair remodels plan Ryanair Routes
Load-Date: May 16, 2014
End of Document
Roundup- Fyffes records increased profits News Roundup
Roundup-Fyffes records increased profits; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
May 14, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 522 words
Highlight: Fruit distributor Fyffes has recorded total revenues of  306.5 million for the first quarter, up 3.4 per cent 
on the  296.5 million reported for
Body
Fruit distributor Fyffes has recorded total revenues of  306.5 million for the first quarter, up 3.4 per cent on the  
296.5 million reported for the same three-month period a year earlier.
The company said group revenue, which excludes Fyffes share of joint ventures, was up 5.4 per cent to  256.7 
million from  243.4 million.
Adjusted profit before tax amounted to  15.8million, up 18.4 per cent.
Fyffes said sales were higher in each of its product categories, driven mainly by organic growth and partly offset by 
lower average prices in the banana and pineapple categories.
The group reported that average selling prices were lower in the first quarter, particularly in Continental Europe. 
Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes and amortisation (Ebita) was 14.9 per cent higher at  16 million on the 
same period last year, which the group attributed to favourable market conditions in the melon category. The Irish 
Times XXXX An analysis of internal aviation industry data has uncovered the full extent to which Ryanair has 
overhauled its low fares business model. The analysis, provided to The Irish Times by specialist aviation industry 
website anna.aero, illustrates the extent to which the airline is abandoning its old policy of pursuing growth primarily 
by flying to secondary airports located miles from major cities. Using data obtained from Innovata, the company to 
which most global airlines report changes to their route networks, the website has found that Ryanair axed a net 
222 routes for this summer, even after launching 138 new routes. Most of the routes axed are to outlying airport. 
The analysis underscores how much the airline is shifting its capacity to some of the biggest airports in major 
European cities, which it typically eschewed until the company changed its model last year after a series of profit 
warnings. The Irish Times XXXX Shares in Glanbia inched up yesterday after the company reported a stronger-
than-expected first quarter and signalled a slew of deal-making this year. In an interim management statement 
Roundup- Fyffes records increased profits News Roundup
covering the first three months of its year to April 5, the firm said total revenues surged some 17pc. That was 
marginally ahead of expectations, and was driven mainly by volume and pricing growth. Importantly, only 1pc of the 
increase was driven by acquisitions. If the first three months of the year - Glanbia's fiscal calendar runs from 
February- were quiet for the company, the months ahead are expected to be much more lively. The Irish 
Independent XXXX AIB has booked a modest profit after buying back debt at a discount from bondholders. The 
bond deal closed just ahead of the bank's latest distribution of new shares to the Government in lieu of a cash 
dividend on its  3.5bn of preference shares, raising taxpayers' stake in the lender marginally. AIB booked profit of 
around  13m on its tender offer to buy back a portion of its Emerald securitisation deal - a mortgage-backed debt 
deal originally issued by EBS. The deal was designed to offer holders of the illiquid investment an exit on the bank's 
terms ahead of a step in interest later this summer. The Irish Independent
Load-Date: May 16, 2014
End of Document
Vodafone trails record-breaking market as AT&T bid hope fades
Vodafone trails record-breaking market as AT&T bid hope fades
Financial Times (London, England)
May 14, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: ON LONDON; Pg. 31
Length: 536 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Vodafone was left behind yesterday, even as the FTSE 100 rose to its highest level since 1999.
Hopes of a bid for the mobile operator took another knock from reports that AT&T was closing in on a deal to buy 
DirecTV, the US satellite broadcaster , for about $50bn. Analysts saw the apparent strategy shift by AT&T as a 
move to secure its dividend rather than pursue expansion.
AT&T's move into Europe "looks more and more like an ambition for 2015-6 onwards," said Bernstein Research. Its 
team expected AT&T to hold off until a reform of European telecom regulation spurs in-market consolidation by 
catching up with the current shape of the industry.
Theories that Vodafone might buy Liberty Global also look "extremely unlikely for at least a year and probably for 
ever - both because Vodafone cannot afford it and because the regulatory hurdles under this regime are too high," 
Bernstein said. Ahead of results yesterday, Vodafone closed down 2 per cent to 219.9p.
The FTSE 100 finished at 6,873.08, having risen 21.33 points, or 0.3 per cent, to top the 14-year high it reached in 
February. Housebuilders led the way after Taylor Wimpey raised margin guidance to reflect a robust housing 
market.
Taylor rose 7.6 per cent to 114.4p, Persimmon took on 3.2 per cent to £14.04 and Crest Nicholson was up 3.3 
per cent to 363.5p.
Vodafone trails record-breaking market as AT&T bid hope fades
Barratt Developments gained 3.2 per cent to 386.3p after Merrill Lynch repeated "buy" advice. The stock has been 
weak since joining the FTSE 100 in March, leaving it at the lowest ratio to expected earnings since the 2008 crash, 
Merrill said. That looks good value, it argued, in advance of a review of targets likely to be revealed at full-year 
results in September.
London Stock Exchange fell 2.5 per cent to £18.08 after confirming it was in the auction to buy Russell Investments, 
the US index builder and asset manager, and would require an equity issue if it won.
Buying the whole Russell business could require a rights issue of up to £1.6bn, or a third of LSE Group's market 
value, said analysts. The reward would be to reduce LSE's reliance on cash equities and make it look more like 
MSCI, the US index business, which trades at a 30 per cent premium. Profit-taking pulled easyJet 4.2 per cent 
lower at £16.58 after its half-year earnings came with an outlook that left expectations unchanged but noted 
growing competition. Ryanair , whose full-year results are due on Monday, slid 1.6 per cent to EUR6.83.
Lonmin fell 3.7 per cent to 261p. Results on Monday from the platinum miner showed the impact of a 16-week 
strike, which meant that first-half production was down 41 per cent.
CIBC estimated that Lonmin had lost $450m from idled production and extra costs, with each additional week 
burning through between $4m and $5m. "Lonmin was prepared for a drawn-out strike, but we believe it is now 
reaching the limits of its contingencies," it said.
Drax faded 2.4 per cent to 637.5p after the government published a consultation on fixed-price subsidies for 
converting power stations to burn biomass.
The proposal was for biomass conversion to compete against established, rather than emerging, technologies but 
be kept in a separate pot to be allocated cash "only if the budget is available".
Load-Date: May 13, 2014
End of Document
Can-do McCall
Can-do McCall
Financial Times (London, England)
May 14, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 18
Length: 169 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
The Guardian newspaper likes a good cause. So does Carolyn McCall, former boss of its parent company and chief 
executive of easyJet. Her mission, she said yesterday, has been to make travel easy and affordable.
Ms McCall's success has been recorded in a 200 per cent outperformance by easyJet's shares against those of 
Ryanair over two years, according to S&P Capital IQ. Slippage of 4 per cent yesterday represented a pause for 
breath. Seasonal first-half losses narrowed in line with forecasts to £53m. But Ms McCall warned airline capacity on 
easyJet routes would probably grow more than demand this summer.
That aside, the former ad jockey looks like a chief executive on top of her game. One must, however, quibble with 
Ms McCall's forecast that airline capacity will grow in balance with demand in the medium term. Incredibly, the 
airline industry blasts millions safely through the air in winged metal tubes every year. But minimising empty seats is 
one feat it can never quite manage.
 
Load-Date: May 13, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ declines, bucks European trend ISEQ Falls
ISEQ declines, bucks European trend; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
May 13, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 360 words
Highlight: The ISEQ bucked the European trend and dipped back in to the red today as Paddy Power's shares 
slumped after its CEO said he intends to resign.
Body
The ISEQ bucked the European trend and dipped back in to the red today as Paddy Power's shares slumped after 
its CEO said he intends to resign.
The index was down 33.33 points to 4,862.99.
European equities rose, with some benchmarks hitting multi-year highs, on upbeat company results and a report 
that Germany's central bank is ready to back new stimulus measures from the ECB.
Share sin Paddy Power slumped 250c to E56.74. There are a number of notable features in this morning's trading 
statement from the bookie. All however are overshadowed by the news that CEO, Patrick Kennedy, intends to leave 
the group by April 2015. "Given the group's very impressive track record under his tenure, this is likely to lead to a 
period of uncertainty for investors with questions in relation to succession and the group's willingness and ability to 
pursue significant strategic opportunities in the interim period. Naturally, this may weigh on the stock for a period. It 
is now key that the group demonstrates superior execution in each of its markets as it enters what is likely to be a 
period of higher scrutiny," said Davy Research. Ryanair's stocks fell 9c to E6.83. Ryanair will report FY2014 results 
on May 19th. Davy said it assumes net income of E510m (guidance E500-520m; consensus E515m). This includes 
a loss of -E56.7m in the traditionally weak Q4 with yields down 8.3pc. More important will be the FY2015 guidance 
and cash generation, the broker said. "Despite the E484m in share buybacks last year and indications of a further 
E500m to be returned to shareholders through a mix of a special dividend and some limited buybacks by the end of 
FY2015 (bringing total funds returned to over E2.5bn since FY2008), we forecast that Ryanair will be in net cash by 
year-end. We currently assume flattish unit revenue growth (0.5pc) and net income of E643.9m (consensus: 
E634m) for FY2015. Ryanair's brand and digital strategy, which should be showing initial results (rising load 
factors), and relatively benign industry capacity (c.3pc) should be positive indicators; however, very limited winter 
visibility is likely to mean that Ryanair is cautious in its guidance."
ISEQ declines, bucks European trend ISEQ Falls
Load-Date: May 16, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rally knocked by Paddy Power ISEQ Falls
ISEQ rally knocked by Paddy Power; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
May 13, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 326 words
Highlight: The ISEQ dipped back in to the red this morning as Paddy Power's shares slumped after its CEO said 
he intends to resign.
Body
The ISEQ dipped back in to the red this morning as Paddy Power's shares slumped after its CEO said he intends to 
resign.
By 1pm, the index was down 13.70 points to 4,882.62.
Share sin Paddy Power slumped 241c to E56.84. There are a number of notable features in this morning's trading 
statement from the bookie. All however are overshadowed by the news that CEO, Patrick Kennedy, intends to leave 
the group by April 2015. "Given the group's very impressive track record under his tenure, this is likely to lead to a 
period of uncertainty for investors with questions in relation to succession and the group's willingness and ability to 
pursue significant strategic opportunities in the interim period. Naturally, this may weigh on the stock for a period. It 
is now key that the group demonstrates superior execution in each of its markets as it enters what is likely to be a 
period of higher scrutiny," said Davy Research.
Ryanair's stocks fell 5c to E6.88. Ryanair will report FY2014 results on May 19th. Davy said it assumes net income 
of  510m (guidance  500-520m; consensus  515m). This includes a loss of - 56.7m in the traditionally weak Q4 with 
yields down 8.3pc. More important will be the FY2015 guidance and cash generation, the broker said. "Despite the  
484m in share buybacks last year and indications of a further  500m to be returned to shareholders through a mix of 
a special dividend and some limited buybacks by the end of FY2015 (bringing total funds returned to over  2.5bn 
since FY2008), we forecast that Ryanair will be in net cash by year-end. We currently assume flattish unit revenue 
growth (0.5pc) and net income of  643.9m (consensus:  634m) for FY2015. Ryanair's brand and digital strategy, 
which should be showing initial results (rising load factors), and relatively benign industry capacity (c.3pc) should be 
positive indicators; however, very limited winter visibility is likely to mean that Ryanair is cautious in its guidance."
ISEQ rally knocked by Paddy Power ISEQ Falls
Load-Date: May 16, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet post small than expected loss EasyJet Loss
EasyJet post small than expected loss; EasyJet Loss
Business World (Digest)
May 13, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 433 words
Highlight: British low-cost airline easyJet said a smaller-than-expected first-half loss, helped by tight cost control 
and more business passengers, showed it could cope with growing competition and any disruption to bookings from 
this summer's soccer World Cup.
Body
British low-cost airline easyJet said a smaller-than-expected first-half loss, helped by tight cost control and more 
business passengers, showed it could cope with growing competition and any disruption to bookings from this 
summer's soccer World Cup.
Shares in the group, which have risen around 50 percent in the past year, dropped as much as 6 percent in early 
trading, as some analysts expressed disappointment it had broken a recent trend of upgrading forecasts.
However, they mostly remained upbeat about a business which has stolen a march on larger rival Ryanair by 
introducing allocated seating and allowing passengers to change flights in a bid to appeal to business travellers.
"The initial share price reaction shows that the weight of expectation for easyJet is, unsurprisingly, increasing," said 
Hargreaves Lansdown analyst Richard Hunter. "The shares may be subject to some shorter term profit taking, 
although the market consensus of the shares as a "buy" remains firmly intact." EasyJet said it expected a 3 percent 
increase in flight capacity by competitors this summer and that the soccer World Cup, due to start in Brazil in June, 
meant forecasting passenger behaviour was difficult. "The booking patterns are quite hard to read. In every single 
market people will watch the World Cup and then they will go away on holiday but they will wait for their team to go 
out," Chief Executive Carolyn McCall told reporters on a call. Nonetheless, the group said 51 percent of its second-
half seats were already booked and its "ruthless focus on cost" would ensure it coped well. EasyJet posted a pretax 
loss of 53 million pounds (dollar 89 million) for the six months to March 31, a 13 percent improvement on the same 
period last year, and ahead of its own guidance for a loss of between 55 million and 65 million pounds. The group, 
like other airlines, traditionally runs at a loss over the winter when fewer customers fly. Its improved performance 
came despite the fact that, unlike the first-half last year, it did not benefit from the Easter holiday, which fell in April 
this year. However, benign winter weather meant fewer disruptions and lower de-icing costs, as it delivered 14 
EasyJet post small than expected loss EasyJet Loss
million pounds of annualised savings in the first half, while its number of business passengers rose 8.5 percent, 
ahead of overall passenger growth of 4 percent. Ryanair, due to report its annual results later in May, has stepped 
up its efforts to attract business travellers, saying in March it was in talks about flying to more convenient airports, 
having already introduced allocated seating. (Reuters)
Load-Date: May 15, 2014
End of Document
Shannon Airport posts big traffic rise; Shannon Gains
Shannon Airport posts big traffic rise; Shannon Gains
Business World (Digest)
May 12, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 423 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport's nine new European routes have delivered a dramatic month of growth, with a 140pc 
increase in passenger numbers on continental services recorded last month compared to April 2013.
Body
Shannon Airport's nine new European routes have delivered a dramatic month of growth, with a 140pc increase in 
passenger numbers on continental services recorded last month compared to April 2013.
The airport has halted five years of passenger numbers decline in its first year as an independent entity after being 
separated from the State airports' group in January of last year but April's passenger figures are proof that 2014 will 
be about growth.
Boosted by a really strong Easter period, Shannon enjoyed its biggest month-over-month increase in over a decade 
as 31pc more passengers flew through the airport in April compared to the same month last year. The sharpest 
increase, not surprisingly, was recorded in passenger numbers to and from the continent, which more than doubled.
The airport had its biggest month in ten years in April in terms of route launches, with new services commenced to 
Munich, Paris, Faro, Warsaw, Krakow, Nice, Poitiers, Berlin, Fuerteventura (all Ryanair) and Bristol (Aer Lingus 
Regional). April also saw a new Aer Lingus Malaga service kick-off, while it was also the first full month for the 
airline's year-round six times weekly JFK New York service, which commenced at the end of March. The increase 
in services is particularly timely with the commencement this year of the Wild Atlantic Way project, the longest 
defined coastal driving route in the world. Shannon is the key gateway airport for the project as it is not alone the 
only airport on the west coast with services to a European hub (Heathrow), providing one-stop connectivity to an 
additional 170 global destinations, but it is also the only airport on the entire route, which stretches from Cork to 
Donegal, with transatlantic services. Passenger numbers on European routes rose to 38,610, from 16,087 in April 
2013, with UK provincial increasing by 27pc, from 13,401 to 17,000. Transatlantic, meanwhile, enjoyed an 18pc 
uplift in the month, from 20,147 to 23,852. Airport CEO Neil Pakey said that after just one month of the new 
services there are already strong signs as to the benefits for local tourism. "For the airport, passenger growth is a 
key objective. We are starting from a low base and a lot of ground needs to be made up but April has been really 
Shannon Airport posts big traffic rise; Shannon Gains
positive for us. One of the great plusses from these services is the strong inbound potential. This was very evident 
in its first month as we saw German and French visitors coming through Shannon for the first time in years thanks 
to our new Berlin, Munich and Paris services."
Load-Date: May 14, 2014
End of Document
Government set to agree new collective bargaining laws
Government set to agree new collective bargaining laws
Sunday Business Post
May 11, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 417 words
Body
The government is expected to agree to new collective bargaining laws at its cabinet meeting this Tuesday, to 
implement a coalition pledge to placate trade unions with a restoration of indirect union recognition.
The move will see an effective restoration of the 2001 and 2004 Industrial Relations Acts which were struck down 
by the Supreme Court in 2007. This arose from an appeal by Ryanair against attempts by the Irish Airline Pilots 
Association, a branch of the Impact public service union, to force through better employment terms.
Union chiefs expect the new arrangements to be announced by Tánaiste and Labour Party leader Eamon Gilmore 
when he addresses the Impact union's biennial conference in Killarney this Friday.
Last July, union bosses were disappointed when Gilmore pulled out of a planned address to the ICTU biennial 
conference in Belfast. The unions had hoped that Gilmore would announce new union recognition rights as they 
celebrated the centenary of the 1913 Lockout.
Under the new collective bargaining rules, unions denied representation for their members in a workplace will be 
able to take a case to the Labour Court if they can show that wage rates and other conditions are out of line with 
similar employments.
It has the advantage of preventing some employers undercutting 'industry rates' paid by rival businesses. From the 
unions' perspective, this puts a brake on the 'race to the bottom' where they contend that employers in highly 
competitive sectors aim to trim costs or boost profits by paying minimum-wage rates.
In countries like the US, an employer must negotiate with a trade union if a majority of the employees indicate that 
they prefer to have union representation. Similar rules apply in most EU states, but the Irish Constitution provides 
that any workers can join a union but an employer can refuse to engage in any discussions with union officials 
acting on their behalf.
Government set to agree new collective bargaining laws
The government proposals, due for cabinet sanction, fall short of legal union recognition. Instead, a union would 
have to seek the intervention of the Labour Court where an employer withholds recognition.
A key aspect of the new legislation will be tougher rules against victimisation of employees who are anxious to 
secure trade union representation. Three years ago, the government pledged to protect disclosures of underhand 
business practices and breaches of the law in Irish workplaces by employees, but the law has not yet been 
enacted.
See page 15: The Sunday Interview with Shay Cody
Load-Date: May 12, 2014
End of Document
The Sunday Interview: Shay Cody 15
The Sunday Interview: Shay Cody 15
Sunday Business Post
May 11, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1802 words
Body
CV: Shay Cody
**Role:**general secretary of Impact union since 2010
**Age:**57
**Influence:**chair of ICTU public services committee; member of the National Competitiveness Council
**Interests:**Irish Labour History Society -- co-authored The Parliament of Labour, a history of Dublin's Council of 
Trades Unions
**Leisure:**attending hurling matches and swimming
.....
Income restoration will be placed on the union agenda this week as the chief of the biggest public service union 
launches a programme for clawing back the pay cuts and pension contribution increases imposed by the Croke 
Park and Haddington Road deals.
Shay Cody, general secretary of the 60,000-member Impact, was the key designer of both deals and is now 
positioned as the most influential union leader within the Irish Congress of Trades Unions (Ictu).
On Wednesday he will address 700 delegates at Impact's biennial conference flanked by Ictu's chief David Begg 
and the chief executive of the Labour Relations Commission, Kieran Mulvey.
Cody rejects suggestions that the bitterness between the union leaders over the initial Croke Park II deal had 
fragmented and split the unions.
The Sunday Interview: Shay Cody 15
   I think that relationships between the unions on the various sides of Haddington Road and Croke Park II are good,   
he says.    There was never any bitterness or interpersonal issues at the time, though different unions had different 
perspectives. Every union recognised the validity of other unions' issues. Unlike, say divisions in the Congress in 
the 1930s - there was a lot of personal bitterness between O'Brien and Larkin, but there was none of that this time.  
Cody says that it would be foolish to put a timeframe on clawing back the concessions conceded over the past five 
years.
   Our agenda, and it will be an issue at our conference, is to start the issue of clawing-back or what we call income 
restoration. Clearly there is a link between that and government finances and if they remain on track and are picking 
up, hopefully government will be on target to achieve less than 3 per cent budget GDP deficit next year.   
Presented with an argument that a deficit is still a deficit that requires borrowing or that the unemployed should be 
prioritised over those who have work, the Impact chief said:
   That is a false set of choices. There is an extremely valid argument that if we can get more money circulating in 
the domestic economy through pay increases, in both the private sector and the public sector, that generates more 
tax revenue. In turn, that generates more jobs, particularly in the retail economy  .
*****
As well as income restoration, high on Cody's agenda will be the continuing low-intensity war with Ryanair which 
saw the airline undermine the last vestiges of collective bargaining rights when it won a Supreme Court appeal 
seven years ago.
For 15 years, Impact has had an on-off campaign to secure recognition for its pilot members but has failed to dent 
Ryanair's resolve to be totally    union-free  .
This month, the government will finally unveil its adaptation of earlier industrial relations laws, struck down by the 
Supreme Court, which will allow for    arm's-length   collective bargaining through the Labour Court.
An active member of the Irish Labour History Society, Cody gave a hostage to historical centenaries two years ago 
when he confidently predicted the restoration of some form of collective bargaining rights or processes before the 
1913 Lockout centenary was over.
That centenary ended five months ago, but Cody smiles, noting that the Lockout dispute at Jacobs biscuit factory 
continued to May 1914. He is confident that that centenary deadline will be met over the next two weeks.
The public service is changing, he believes. When he started as a young union official with the Union of 
Professional and Technical Civil Servants (UPTCS) in 1979, workers such as agriculture officers, air traffic 
controllers or vets could never apply for senior administrative jobs.
   One of their issues in that period was that they were compartmentalised and had barriers climbing to the top of 
the structure. In the last 12 months, Brendan Howlin accepted a recommendation which came from the Public 
Appointments Commissions, triggered by technical civil servants, that all public posts would be open to all 
applicants.  
*****
Impact came about from a merger of the Local Government and Public Services Union (LGPSU), the Municipal 
Workers Union and UPTCS in 1991 with Phil Flynn as its leader. Flynn was replaced by Peter McLoone in 1995. 
Cody says that he is in initial discussions with the three main civil service unions and the smaller veterinary officers' 
union, about a potential merger to form a public service union block.
The Sunday Interview: Shay Cody 15
With David Begg due to step down as Ictu general secretary in the next 12 months, Cody has no intention of 
seeking to replace him.    I think the Congress job probably requires a generation shift,   he says, adding that he has 
enough to do over the next few years steering Impact.
   We would be champions of a more rationalised trade union structure. Impact itself is a product of a debate that 
took place in the 1980s. We advocated it, as we had a single employer in the public service who was able to play 
one union off against another. We were masquerading as if we were independent republics but, in reality, we were 
working for a single employer, and that was partly the stimulus for the merger in 1991. We are at a time again when 
that discussion is live.  
   We have the same amount of unions as the UK, even though they have a population of 60 million and we have 
six million on the island. In Germany, there are eight unions for a population of 80 million. The Congress 
commission is a strong advocate of a significant rationalisation of trade union structures We have welcomed an 
initiative from the Public Service Executive Union (PSEU) for discussions with all the unions that represent staff in 
the civil service and some of the state agencies. We are at the early stages in those discussions  .
   Government is moving in the general direction of a single public service union and that is something which the 
LGPSU had supported in the past. The opening of promotion outlets which I mentioned is a very, very significant 
issue, and an issue which will arise in the future is one of mobility between different parts of the public service. You 
get a greater degree of it now that you did in the past  .
He cites the appointment of Paul Reid from the private sector, where he was network director at Eircom, as an 
assistant secretary in the Department of Public Expenditure and then Reid's recent appointment as county manager 
for Fingal, as evidence of a more open public service rather than the traditional    Buggins's turn   system.    That 
can't be bad for the public service getting people with different experiences and backgrounds,   he says.
On the issue of lop-sided union density, at over 60 per cent in the public sector and lower than 10 per cent in 
smaller, indigenous firms, Cody said:    There is a chicken and egg situation. Clearly, the unions need to put a lot 
more resources into organising, and we need to have a proper legislative framework around collective bargaining, 
which hopefully we will have progressed by the time we get to our conference next week.
   The Supreme Court was very explicit that it was not minded to allow for simple trade union recognition legislation 
that exists north of the border or in the US. I think that, in the longer run, there will be a European perspective 
brought to bear on that, but in the shorter term we have to talk about the restoration of a more robust form of the 
2001 and 2004 legislation with strong anti-victimisation provisions.  
*****
As a young union official in the 1980s, Cody was a member of the Workers' Party trade union organisation. It was a 
sort of INSEAD graduate school for up-and-coming union activists who learned how to manage and face down 
'utopian' opposition.
Cody is one of the Workers' Party union graduates who still remain in senior trade union and employment relations 
positions, though many, like him, have since joined the Labour Party. He does not see any conflict or tension in 
representing 60,000 public servants in negotiations with leading Labour Party ministers like Brendan Howlin and 
Eamon Gilmore while holding a party card.
   A trade union official's, at any level, first responsibility is to their members and during negotiations there was no 
reference to any official's political affiliations. Whether it's Brendan Howlin, Fine Gael or Fianna Fáil, that is not how 
business is done.  
Impact is not affiliated to any political party, unlike Siptu, but it has been very active on political issues such as its 
campaign over the sale of Coillte forestry assets. The union hired the economist Peter Bacon to prepare an analysis 
indicating that it might cost more than it would generate to dispose of a key national resource.
The Sunday Interview: Shay Cody 15
Another political issue has been campaigning to retain the state's 25 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, as well as 
lobbying over chief executive Christoph Mueller's generous pension arrangements while union members face 
reduced retirement benefits. Another successful Impact campaign was to preserve Dublin City Council budgets for 
the homeless.
Cody was a trustee of the Telecom   ireann employee share scheme and chair of a similar ESOP body at Aer 
Lingus, initiated as sweeteners to enhance their privatisation from state enterprise status. Neither scheme proved 
very successful in securing collective employee influence or ensuring quality customer service, but they paid 
handsome dividends to employees, many of whom no longer work with either company.
Cody's realistic analysis is enhanced by his membership of the National Competitiveness Council (NCC) for much 
of the past decade. Ten years ago, the NCC was one of the few bodies highlighting the hollowness of Celtic tiger 
Ireland.
He compliments the Council as being broader than some of its counterparts in other states, noting that it highlights 
infrastructural shortages, the high costs of utilities and professional services while acknowledging that median wage 
rates, or employment costs, in Ireland are in the lower segment of eurozone economies.
Cody is the key influencer within the ICTU executive as chair of the public service committee which has effectively 
directed ICTU policy for the past 15 years. Four years ago, he replaced Peter McLoone (Impact) and Dan Murphy 
(PSEU) as the main strategy influencer, despite the sometimes higher media profile of Siptu's leaders and the 
noisy, smaller unions representing teachers, health workers or transport employees. And as Begg prepares to step 
back after 14 years in the onerous post of Ictu general secretary, increasingly Cody is the brains of the operation.
Load-Date: May 12, 2014
End of Document
AstraZeneca is doing very little to play hard to get
AstraZeneca is doing very little to play hard to get
Financial Times (London, England)
May 8, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: INSIDE BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 764 words
Byline: Sarah Gordon, Europe business editor
Body
The way deals are presented in public rarely gives a glimpse of the real discussions going on behind the scenes, 
the motivations of the chief executives involved or the genuine areas of disagreement. This is, after all, one of the 
reasons why acquirers and targets in any potential takeover spend a fortune on PR advisers as well as lawyers.
But it is often possible to get a clue to what the real issues are from what companies involved in a bid do not do, as 
much as from what they do.
Pfizer, for example, will not put a number on the tax it believes it would save from its putative £63bn offer for 
AstraZeneca . And AstraZeneca, while saying it does not want a bid, is pursuing none of the measures that would 
really put off a potential purchaser.
There are many ways to do this, some more effective than others. Pointing out the valid reasons why a deal should 
be scuppered, such as competitive overlaps, is a good start.
Michael O'Leary, boss of Irish carrier Ryanair, has mounted three failed bids for Aer Lingus since 2005. On each 
occasion, the minute Ryanair comes knocking, Aer Lingus has rushed to the European Commission, not to mention 
the press, to point out all the possible competitive hurdles.
There is no doubt that some of these are real: a merged Ryanair/Aer Lingus at the time of the last bid in 2012 would 
have operated nearly four-fifths of all flights from Dublin airport. But Aer Lingus's zeal in arguing this doubtless 
AstraZeneca is doing very little to play hard to get
helped the European competition authorities reach the desired conclusion when it blocked the merger for the 
second time last year.
If this method of dissuading a bidder does not work, there are other options. Although poison pills are more or less 
banned under UK law, there are various pill-like measures which a target can pursue that do the same trick.
Engaging in mergers and acquisitions activity of your own can work well. Elan, the Irish drugmaker, managed to put 
off three offers last year from Royalty Pharma, a US private equity group, by proposing acquisitions and a share 
buyback of $200m. Although Elan's shareholders blocked all the planned purchases - not surprisingly, given their 
quality - they backed the buyback and Royalty's hostile bid lapsed.
(Incidentally, Elan was so weakened by the tussle that it finally had to sell itself to Perrigo, a rival US pharma 
company which was attracted to the deal because of the tax benefits of re-domiciling in Ireland.)
Getting rid of assets, whether real or liquid, is another tried and tested way of putting off potential buyers. BAA, 
owner of Heathrow and Gatwick airports, promised shareholders a £750m share buyback and a 40 per cent rise in 
the dividend in 2006 if they rejected the overtures of Spain's Ferrovial.
Finally, unwilling targets can talk a deal down to the best of their abilities. At its most basic, this means bad-
mouthing the acquirer and its management - the rhetoric around Royalty Pharma's hostile approach to Elan was 
particularly poisonous - to shareholders and other stakeholders. And it means "quiet words" with journalists in order 
to get the negative message across.
AstraZeneca is pursuing none of the above strategies. It may be too early for it to propose a special dividend or a 
share buyback given that no formal offer has yet been received from Pfizer.
But there are plenty of opportunities for the company's management to fan the flames of the rising political hostility 
to the deal, both in public and in private conversations. This is an opportunity that is not being seized. Instead, 
AstraZeneca argues that Pfizer's suggested bid of £50 a share seriously undervalues the company, and that its 
pipeline of drugs is so good that investors should let it continue to do business on its own.
Neither of these factors constitutes a killer blow to any potential deal. What they do is exactly what any company 
being pursued should do - make the case for a higher price. And if a deal does not happen at a higher price, try to 
come out of it looking like an independent and valuable company with its strategy intact.
This is probably the best course to follow in order to wring the highest possible price out of Pfizer for AstraZeneca's 
shareholders. But, given that these will become future investors in Pfizer, a ridiculous price would hurt the merged 
company which they will end up owning, so is hardly a desirable outcome. Instead, they should be telling 
AstraZeneca that if it wants to say "No" there are ways of doing so which show it really means it.
Sarah Gordon is the Financial Times's Europe Business Editor
 www.ft.com/insidebusiness 
Load-Date: May 7, 2014
End of Document
Boeing receives order from Ryanair for five additional 737-800 aircraft
Boeing receives order from Ryanair for five additional 737-800 aircraft
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 8, 2014 Thursday 11:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 126 words
Highlight: Boeing has received an order from Ryanair, an airline company, for five additional next-generation 737-
800 aircraft. The order is valued at $452 million at list prices.
Body
"The 737-800 is the perfect airplane for us as we continue to expand our fleet to cater to both business passengers 
and tourists who want to visit and explore Europe at affordable, reliable rates," said Michael O'Leary, director and 
CEO of Ryanair. "The addition of these highly efficient airplanes will help provide our customers with additional 
options when it comes to planning their travel." "Ryanair and Boeing share a rich history together. The 737-800 
offers strong operating economics and will provide comfort and reliability to Ryanair passengers," said Boeing 
Commercial Airplanes President and CEO Ray Conner. "We are honored to be chosen by Ryanair as they expand 
their fleet and look forward to continuing our partnership for decades to come."
Load-Date: May 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair April passenger traffic increases
Ryanair April passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 8, 2014 Thursday 10:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 88 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has reported that passenger traffic for the month of April 2014 was 7.8 million passengers, 
an increase of 5%, compared to 7.4 million passengers for April 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of April 2014 was 84%, an increase of three percentage points, compared to 81% for April 
2013. Robin Kiely, head of communications at Ryanair, said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to 7.8m customers in 
April due to the presence of Easter in the month (but not in April the prior year), the continuing success of our lower 
fares and our improved customer experience, including our great new website, allocated seating, a free 2nd small 
carry-on bag and PED (portable electric device) use on all flights."
Load-Date: May 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches Manchester 2014 winter schedule
Ryanair launches Manchester 2014 winter schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 7, 2014 Wednesday 7:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 129 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its Manchester 2014 winter schedule, with four new routes to Barcelona, 
Fuerteventura, Gran Canaria and Lisbon.
Body
Ryanair's Manchester 2014 winter schedule will deliver: 23 Manchester routes in total; growth from 214 to over 226 
weekly flights; increased frequencies & better schedules on 3 existing routes; over 2.3m Ryanair customers p.a. at 
Manchester (up 200,000 customers); and over 2,300 jobs sustained at Manchester Airport. Ryanair's Maria Macken 
said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Manchester 2014 winter schedule, with 23 routes, including 4 new routes to 
Barcelona, Fuerteventura, Gran Canaria and Lisbon, as well as increased frequencies on 3 other routes." "To 
celebrate our Manchester winter 2014 schedule and 4 new routes, we are releasing 100,000 seats on sale from 
GBP19.99 for travel in June and July, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (1 May)."
Load-Date: May 13, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair traffic up 5pc in April Ryanair PAX
Ryanair traffic up 5pc in April; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
May 6, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 67 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that it carried 5pc more passengers in April than in the same month a year ago.
Body
Ryanair today said that it carried 5pc more passengers in April than in the same month a year ago.
It said that traffic grew by 400,000 to 7.8 million customers with 82 million people flying Ryanair in the 12 months to 
the end of April.
Its load factor - an industry wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - rose by 3pc to 84pc in the month and 
stood at 83pc for the year to the end of April.
Load-Date: May 8, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair April Traffic Rises 5% - Quick Facts
Ryanair April Traffic Rises 5% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
May 6, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 113 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) said that its traffic for the month of April 
2014 increased 5% to 7.8 million customers from last year's 7.4 million customers, due to the presence of Easter in 
the month (but not in April the prior year), the continuing success of its lower fares and its improved customer 
experience. The customer experience included new website, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and 
PED or portable electric device use on all flights.
Monthly load factor grew 3% to 84% from 81% in the previous year.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 6, 2014
End of Document
Mueller restored Aer Lingus staff bonus after his salary was approved
Mueller restored Aer Lingus staff bonus after his salary was approved
Sunday Business Post
May 4, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 457 words
Body
Aer Lingus chief executive Christoph Mueller emailed staff to say they would now receive a EUR 750 per head 
bonus payment that he had cancelled in March, just shortly after his own bumper Euro 1.5 million pay package was 
approved by shareholders.
The state, which holds a 25 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, voted against the remuneration report at Friday's annual 
general meeting, as well as a number of large institutions after international shareholder advisory group Institutional 
Shareholder Services recommended No vote, it is understood.
But the package, which included a 15 per cent pension hike, was voted through by a tiny margin after Ryanair voted 
in its favour.
Shorty afterwards, Mueller emailed staff representatives:    I am happy to inform you that the Board has now 
decided to pay the balance of the incentive,   he said in the email, sent at 5.45pm on Friday as the AGM concluded 
its business.
Staff had reacted angrily in March when Mueller informed them that they would only receive a quarter of the annual 
payment, because of    legacy issues   with the Ryanair stake in the airline and the row over the pension fund 
deficit.
The 75 per cent cut came despite Aer Lingus hitting agreed profitability targets and the 3,700 staff being entitled to 
share the EUR 6.25 million payment.
Mueller said the decision to pay up was made in recognition that the payment related to the previous    Greenfield   
cost-cutting programme, and that this had now been successfully concluded.
   We also acknowledge that making progress together on further change initiatives would be made all the more 
difficult without drawing a proper conclusion to Greenfield,   he wrote.    This case was well made by your 
Mueller restored Aer Lingus staff bonus after his salary was approved
representatives yesterday at a constructive meeting regarding the commencement of engagement on the CORE 
programme.  
The CORE programme is designed to cut a further EUR 30 million in costs that union sources say will be 
impossible to achieve without a resolution to the pension crisis.
Mueller also stands to benefit personally to the tune of nearly EUR 700,000 if the pension issue is resolved this 
summer in a manner which boosts the company's share price.
If the Aer Lingus share price tops EUR 2.20 for 25 of the 40 days ahead of September 7 of this year, 500,000 
shares will become available to Mueller to buy, at EUR 0.886 per share.
Those shares would then be worth at least EUR 657,000, on top of previous share option awards now worth almost 
EUR 1 million.
Meanwhile, a coalition source said the passing of Mueller's pay package, despite government opposition, 
underlined the fact that the government is a minority player in the airline, and that the power to approve a pension 
resolution lay with other shareholders, including Ryanair.
Load-Date: May 5, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus defend Mueller's pension; A Lingus Pay
Aer Lingus defend Mueller's pension; A Lingus Pay
Business World (Digest)
May 2, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 238 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus today said that it will "carefully consider" shareholders' concerns on the chief executive's pay 
package amid talk that the Government will object to a pension top up for CEO Christoph Mueller.
Body
Aer Lingus today said that it will "carefully consider" shareholders' concerns on the chief executive's pay package 
amid talk that the Government will object to a pension top up for CEO Christoph Mueller.
Aer Lingus Chairman Colm Barrington said that, since Mr Mueller had joined Aer Lingus, he had built a new 
business model which had delivered four years of operating profits totalling E236m.
He added that Aer Lingus shares were up three times and shareholders were now receiving a substantial dividend 
since the CEO joined.
Mr Barrington said that Mr Mueller's pay was "well below" the average for Irish publicly-listed companies. He said 
the "retention of the CEO was critical for development" of the airline. Vote on pay at Aer Lingus is to be put to a poll 
of shareholders after the AGM concludes. Results of the poll are expected later today. Mr Barrington's comments 
come after the Government said it would vote against the remuneration report at the annual general meeting. 
However, RTE News has also learned that Ryanair will now vote in favour of the pay package for Mr Mueller. 
Ryanair director Howard Millar also asked for a poll on the resolution to re-elect David Begg to the board of Aer 
Lingus. The State holds a 25pc stake in Aer Lingus and has expressed strong concerns to management about a 
15pc increase to the contribution to Mr Mueller's pension fund. That increase would bring the total payment to 
E175,000.
Load-Date: May 7, 2014
End of Document
Roundup- Smurfit Kappa hits the heights News Roundup
Roundup-Smurfit Kappa hits the heights; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
May 2, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 659 words
Highlight: Smurfit Kappa has reported an 81 per cent jump in pre-tax profits on the back of a strong performance in 
its Americas business.
Body
Smurfit Kappa has reported an 81 per cent jump in pre-tax profits on the back of a strong performance in its 
Americas business.
The packaging group said profit before income tax was E104 million for the first three months of the year, up from 
E57 million for same period last year.
Revenues rose by 2 per cent to E1.9 billion.
The company said the results also reflected price improvements in its European packaging operations.
Chief executive Gary McCann said the group's reduced it financing costs as a result of the completion of the 
significantly more attractive financing structure. "The first quarter has delivered a strong underlying financial 
performance as a result of good demand growth and the successful implementation of price increases in the 
majority of countries," he said. The Irish Times XXXX Impaired loans at Ulster Bank fell by 80 per cent in the first 
quarter of this year compared with the same period last year. According to results published today by its British 
parent Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), loan losses at the bank fell from E292 million to E57 million. This included 
significant reductions across its mortgage, SME and corporate portfolios, the bank said. Ulster Bank also recorded 
an operating profit of E21 million down from a loss of E200 million, representing its first quarterly profit since 2009. 
"We are focused on sustaining the recovery of our business," Ulster Bank chief executive Jim Brown said. The Irish 
Times XXXX The Government is planning to protest at the pension increase granted recently by Aer Lingus to its 
chief executive Christoph Mueller by voting against a motion relating to remuneration when it is put to shareholders 
at the airline's agm today. With the Government owning 25 per cent of the shares and some institutional investors 
rumoured to be planning a similar move, it raises the prospect of the motion being voted down. Aer Lingus might 
end up depending on the support of Ryanair, which owns just under 30 per cent of the company, to carry the 
Roundup- Smurfit Kappa hits the heights News Roundup
motion. The Irish Times XXXX A structured proposal for the former Quinn Group manufacturing companies will be 
ready "within days", a director of a company set up to buy them has said. Fine Gael councillor for Ballinamore, Co 
Leitrim, John McCartin, who is a director of QBRC Ltd, (formerly Quinn Business Retention Company Ltd), said the 
effort to get financial backers had been delayed by the campaign of sabotage against the former Quinn Group 
businesses. The group, which is now called Aventas, comprises glass, cement, building materials and packaging 
businesses, in the Cavan/Fermanagh border area, England, and continental Europe. It has 1,190 employees in the 
border businesses, and 2,800 overall. The Irish Times XXXX Euro-area manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in 
three months in April on accelerating expansion in Germany and Italy, evidence the currency bloc's recovery 
remains on track. A Purchasing Managers' Index increased to 53.4 from 53 in March, Markit Economics said in a 
statement today. That exceeded a preliminary reading of 53.3 published on April 23rd. The measure has exceeded 
the level of 50, indicating expansion, for the past 10 months. While the euro area is recovering from a record-long 
recession and confidence indicators signal further growth, officials are gauging the risk that low inflation might 
evolve into falling prices. The threat has prompted European Central Bank president Mario Draghi to pledge further 
monetary stimulus if needed. "The recovery is becoming more broad-based," said Chris Williamson, an economist 
at Markit. "It remains to be seen whether this strengthening of demand will feed through to more pricing power, 
which remains weak due to the widespread existence of spare capacity and high unemployment in many countries." 
Markit's report showed input costs in the euro region fell at the fastest pace since July 2013, while output prices 
declined for a second month. The Irish Times
Load-Date: May 7, 2014
End of Document
Former Ryanair boss for tourism role Tourism Boss
Former Ryanair boss for tourism role; Tourism Boss
Business World (Digest)
May 1, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 381 words
Highlight: Former Ryanair Deputy CEO Michael Cawley is to be the new Chairman of Failte Ireland.
Body
Former Ryanair Deputy CEO Michael Cawley is to be the new Chairman of Failte Ireland.
Mr Cawley worked with Ryanair for 17 years until his retirement last March, most recently as Deputy Chief 
Executive and Chief Operating Officer.
Minister for Transport, Tourism & Sport Leo Varadkar said if Michael Cawley can do for Irish tourism what he did for 
Ryanair, he will bewill be a very happy Minister.
"I'm delighted to nominate a Chairman of the calibre of Michael Cawley and I think he is an ideal fit for Failte 
Ireland. Michael played a pivotal role in Ryanair over the last two decades and helped it to become one of the 
world's leading airlines. I know that Michael will bring a new dynamism to the position of the Chairmanship of Failte 
Ireland and drive forward the tourist sector, building on the success of The Gathering and Government initiatives 
such as the 9pc Vat rate. This appointment comes at a crucial time. The tourism industry is now firmly in recovery 
and visitor numbers are ahead of target. However, our resources remain limited, and Michael will have a key role in 
targeting investments carefully." Welcoming the appointment, Failte Ireland CEO Shaun Quinn said: "The 
nomination of a new Chairman is timely as tourism emerges from a period of contraction and begins to grow again. 
As Ireland's largest indigenous industry, tourism is capable of delivering significant additional revenue and jobs and 
make a strong contribution to this country's economic recovery. I look forward to working with Michael as, along 
with our partners throughout the industry, we work to sustain and build on the recent growth in the sector." Michael 
Cawley served as Ryanair's Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer until his retirement. He previously 
served as Chief Financial Officer and Commercial Director. Prior to his time with Ryanair he served as Group 
Finance Director of Gowan Group Limited, one of Ireland's largest private companies and the main distributor for 
Peugeot and Citroen automobiles in Ireland. Mr Cawley's appointment will take effect following an appearance at 
the Oireachtas Joint Committee on Transport and Communications. He has been appointed for a five year term in 
accordance with Section 14 of the National Tourism Development Authority Act, 2003.
Former Ryanair boss for tourism role Tourism Boss
Load-Date: May 6, 2014
End of Document
Analysis: Investors hungry for unsecured debt
Analysis: Investors hungry for unsecured debt
AirFinance Journal
May 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: EUROPE,NORTH AMERICA,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,ANALYSIS
Length: 874 words
Highlight: US carriers and European low-cost airlines are actively seeking more floating rate debt as Ryanair 
launches bond roadshow
Body
A panel of US carriers, including American Airlines, United Airlines, Southwest Airlines and Allegiant Air, have 
confirmed that investors are eager for unsecured airline paper.
Speaking at the 34th Annual New York Airfinance Conference, Chris Monroe, vice-president and treasurer at 
Southwest Airlines, says he expects eventually all of the US carriers to issue unsecured bonds.
"It has just been a matter for us of timing and need. Clearly there is investor demand in the unsecured market "" 
they like the paper, and there is not much out there. We get a lot of reverse enquiries ourselves but we haven't 
seen the need to tap it yet. I think we are all going to find our way there and everyone's ratings are becoming higher 
for good reason," he says.
Only one airline has taken advantage of the unsecured market recently. United Continental issued a $300 million 
high-yield unsecured bond in May last year. The five-year bond secured a coupon of 6.375% with a spread to 
benchmark treasury of 573 basis points.
United Continental got cheaper pricing with its second $300 million unsecured bond. The notes have a 6% coupon 
and mature in December 2020. Both deals highlighted that the unsecured market is open to investment-grade and 
non-investment-grade airlines.
"It is not just investment-grade airlines that are finding unsecured very attractive "" non-investment-grade airlines 
also do," confirms Gerry Laderman, senior vice-president, finance and treasurer, United Airlines.
"I wouldn't say unsecured for us would be the same as issuing an A-tranche EETC [enhanced equipment trust 
certificate], but certainly today and in the last fall when you look at the unsecured versus the C tranche, the 
unsecured made more sense than issuing a C-tranche EETC.
"The other difference is that maybe in the old days if I was lucky I could get a five-year unsecured deal done; now 
we can go out as far as 10 years. There is appetite for that at reasonable spreads given our non-investment-grade 
rating," adds Laderman. 
Analysis: Investors hungry for unsecured debt
Foreign issuers 
The universe of potential issuers is limited because only a handful of carriers are rated. Many of these eligible 
carriers are based in the US but operators such as American Airlines and Delta Air Lines are so cash rich they are 
unlikely to do many issuances at all.
What the market does expect, however, is to see more foreign low-cost carriers tap this market. Ryanair has been 
rated BBB+ by both Standard Poor's and Fitch this year. Howard Millar, Ryanair's chief financial officer, speaking 
with Airfinance Journal in January, was clear the airline was planning to access the capital markets. The carrier is 
widely expected to do an unsecured bond and has just announced it will launch a roadshow to gauge investor 
appetite for a "Euro-denominated senior transaction". Rival low-cost carrier Wizz Air has stated it will float on the 
London Stock Exchange this summer. When it does the carrier may subsequently try to get a rating. This could 
potentially open the door for an unsecured bond for the airline further down the line.
Given investor demand it will be fascinating to see where spreads end up for Ryanair's debut unsecured bond.
Demand for floating-rate debt
One topic that brought agreement from all four US carriers on the panel was their desire to raise more floating-rate 
debt.
Tom Weir, American Airlines' treasurer, says the carrier is keen to explore floating-rate debt structures.
"We have also seen some interesting pricing for floating-rate unsecured transactions, shorter term, but it is 
comparable to the secured term loan pricing you can get. This is a very interesting option," says Weir.
Southwest's Monroe adds that the airline is overly fixed and is interested in arranging additional floating-rate debt.
It is no surprise that airlines have taken advantage of record low interest rates to ensure they have low predictable 
fixed-rate debt.
"You haven't seen a lot of floating-rate issuances. A lot of the aviation investors are money managers looking for 
fixed-rate money. Similarly with pension funds and insurance companies who want to match liabilities. They are 
basically looking for a steady cash-flow stream. Now that's not to say that they wouldn't take floating-rate paper and 
maybe swap it, but it's just the investor base has more of a fixed-rate focus," he says.
However, if the market expectation is correct that interest rates will stay low or flat for a period of time then airlines 
could benefit by using floating-rate structures.
"The US government and the banking regulators have said that they are going to keep interest rates low for the 
foreseeable future, so it is not a gamble. What you are doing is you are managing your interest rate risk 
management policy with the expectation around what the interest rate environment currently is," says one banker.
Floating-rate debt structures are likely to include term loans or floating-rate bonds. Crucially, bankers state that 
there is an expanding investor base willing to buy into these products, particularly from collateralized loan obligation 
(CLO) funds looking for institutional term loans.
The financier adds: "Term loan instruments are naturally floating rate and a lot of your CLO money is shorter term 
paper." 
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
Analysis: Investors hungry for unsecured debt
End of Document
Frontier names new CFO and president
Frontier names new CFO and president
AirFinance Journal
May 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,NORTH AMERICA,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 257 words
Highlight: US airline hires Ryanair and VivaColombia executives for transformation to ultra-low cost model.
Body
Frontier Airlines has appointed James "Jimmy" Dempsey as chief financial officer (CFO) and Barry L. Biffle as 
president, both reporting to chief executive David Siegel.
Dempsey most recently served as treasurer for ultra-low cost carrier (ULCC) Ryanair "" holding the position for five 
of his 11 years at the airline - and brings more than 17 years of experience in aviation finance.
He played a part in financing the airline's growth, managing fuel costs and reducing operating costs, enabling the 
airline to grow to carry 81 million passengers annually.
"I am looking forward to working with (CEO) David Siegel, the team at Frontier Airlines and (controlling shareholder) 
Indigo Partners in transitioning Frontier into a competitive, stable and efficient ultra-low cost carrier," says 
Dempsey.
Another ULCC specialist "" Barry L. Biffle "" will join Frontier as its president in July.
He will have responsibility for operations, marketing and related information technology organisations.
Biffle has focused on pioneering ULCCs' development in North and South America, and was most recently chief 
executive of VivaColombia.
Before that he served as executive vice president of Spirit Airlines where he helped with the financial turn-around of 
the company.
He has also held several management positions with US Airways and AMR where he began his airline career.
Frontier offers ultra-low fares with customer choices to more than 75 destinations in the United States, Mexico, 
Costa Rica, Jamaica and the Dominican Republic.
William.mace@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
Frontier names new CFO and president
End of Document
China Deal of the Year 2013
China Deal of the Year 2013
AirFinance Journal
May 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: ASIA PACIFIC & AUSTRALASIA,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS
Length: 381 words
Highlight: Minsheng's $477 million portfolio acquisition from SMBC Aviation Capital.
Body
Minsheng Financial Leasing was mainly a shipping and business jet lessor until it established a commercial aircraft-
leasing arm "" Minsheng Commercial Aviation (MCA) "" in July 2013.
Under the leadership of its president, Bo Zhang, and with the significant aviation expertise of former Spring Airlines 
chief financial officer Johnny Lau, MCA has set about growing its presence in the global market.
MCA's first portfolio buy was an 11-aircraft purchase and leaseback deal with AirBerlin backed by ICBC Asia and 
ICBC Luxembourg.
But it was the portfolio acquisition of 13 on-lease aircraft from major leasing player SMBC Aviation Capital that 
really signalled MCA's intentions and its standing with financiers, lessors and airlines.
The $477 million transaction was for two A319s, six A320s and five 737s, and was again backed by ICBC, this time 
alongside SMBC.
The deal also required MCA to establish a new Irish leasing platform.
It was a huge feat to organize the purchase and transfer the ownership of the first aircraft all within 34 days, says 
Lau, MCA's chief executive.
"For a young entity it's particularly large because we started from zero in July last year and we needed to build up 
our volume," he says, adding: "We decided to opt for a portfolio acquisition so we could accelerate our growth. This 
strategy is correct, but execution is never easy for a Chinese organization in terms of approval, regulatory 
constraints, funding and also communications with external parties. But we made everything happen within only 34 
calendar days."
The first tranche of the novation agreement closed on December 19.
Lau also notes the benefit of striking up relationships with some of the world's largest airlines, such as Ryanair.
"Don't forget we need the airlines to cooperate because the novation of the lease from Ryanair to us is not easy," 
says Lau.
China Deal of the Year 2013
He adds: "Ryanair is also a very prestigious airline with a very high standing in the market and this is the first time a 
Chinese leasing company has dealt directly with them "" through SMBC AC "" so that's also a very meaningful 
transaction."
Purchaser: Minsheng Commercial Aviation
Assets: 13 aircraft "" two A319s, six A320s,
five 737s
Tenor: Five years
Amount: $477 million
Lawyers: White Case
Lenders: ICBC and SMBCwilliam.mace@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair announces European bond roadshow
Ryanair announces European bond roadshow
AirFinance Journal
May 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: EUROPE,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 150 words
Highlight: Airline to meet with investors following BBB+ rating.
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair will meet with fixed income investors across Europe next month, following its stated plans 
to access the capital markets.
Ryanair has mandated BNP Paribas, Citi and Deutsche Bank to arrange the meetings, with Citi acting as global 
coordinator and joint arranger on the airline's Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme.
Beginning on June 3, meetings will take place across Germany, Paris, London, Helsinki, Copenhagen and Zurich. 
There will also be a group lunch in London with the airline's chief executive officer, Michael O'Leary.
A Euro denominated transaction may follow, depending on market conditions, according to Airfinance Journal's 
sources.
Earlier this month Ryanair secured a credit rating of BBB+ from ratings agency Fitch.
In March Ryanair's CFO Howard Millar told Airfinance Journal of the airline's wish to enter the debt capital 
markets.Joe.Kavanagh@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair receives second BBB+ rating
Ryanair receives second BBB+ rating
AirFinance Journal
May 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 87 words
Highlight: Fitch rating assists carrier's move towards capital markets.
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair has secured a credit rating of BBB+ from rating agency Fitch.
The result comes one month after the Irish carrier received its first BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, which 
made it the world's highest rated airline.
In an interview with Airfinance Journal in January 2014, CFO Howard Millar discussed Ryanair's plans to access 
capital markets to fund new deliveries in September 2014. He added Ryanair is considering unsecured debt 
financing first and possibly a EETC.
joe.kavanagh@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair orders five Next-Generation 737s
Ryanair orders five Next-Generation 737s
AirFinance Journal
May 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 84 words
Highlight: Order valued at $452 million confirmed with Boeing.
Body
Ryanair have completed an order for five next generation 737s with a value of $452 million at list prices.
The announcement brings the total number of unfilled next-gen 737 orders for the Ireland-based ultra-low-cost 
carrier to 180 airplanes.
The airline announced an order for 175 of the airplanes last year. Ryanair is the world's largest 737-800 customer, 
with orders placed for 528 of the type to date.
This brings the total number of 737s ordered to date to more than 11,000.
Holly.parmenter@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair profits drop 8%
Ryanair profits drop 8%
AirFinance Journal
May 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 159 words
Highlight: Carrier experiences first profit fall in five years due to fuel costs and weak pound.
Body
Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost carrier, has announced its first fall in annual profits for five years.
Profit after tax fell 8.1% from #8364;569 million in the year to March 2013 to â,¬523 million in March 2014.
In the same period the carrier reported a 3% growth in passenger numbers to 81.7 million, and a 3% growth in 
revenue to â,¬5.1 million.
Ryanair said the fall in profits was due to a decline in fares, higher fuel costs and the weak value of the pound.
The carrier's CEO Michael O'Leary, states: "While disappointing that profits fell 8% to â,¬523 million due mainly to a 
4% decline in fares, weaker sterling, and higher fuel costs, we reacted quickly to this weaker environment last 
September by lowering fares and improving our customer experience which caused H2 traffic to grow 4% as load 
factors rose 1%. Ancillary revenues grew 17%, much faster than traffic growth, and now accounts for 25% of total 
revenues."
joe.kavanagh@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
End of Document
Ex Post Facto: Behind the stories
Ex Post Facto: Behind the stories
Sunday Business Post
April 27, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1281 words
Body
The government had to swallow a bit and vote in favour of the directors' remuneration package at the Bank of 
Ireland annual general meeting last Friday, including Richie Boucher's handsome EUR 843,000 package. But will 
they do the same for Christoph Mueller of Aer Lingus at next Friday's shareholders' meeting?
Like Boucher, Mueller is seen by ministers to have done a decent job and there is no wish to undermine him. 
However, transport minister Leo Varadkar has already said that Mueller's package -- which at EUR 1.5 million last 
year made Boucher's look modest -- jars' in terms of the reductions taken by state company bosses. A EUR 
175,000 pension top-up paid as part of his 2013 package is particularly sensitive, with talks under way with Aer 
Lingus and Dublin Airport employees on pension cuts resulting for a deficit in the airport pension fund.
The resolution which will be put to shareholders is a non-binding one -- in other words, the company can go ahead 
and pay the money regardless. Anyway, as a 25 per cent shareholder, the government only has so much of a say in 
how the airline is run. The biggest shareholder, Ryanair, which the UK Competition Commission says must sell 
down most of its shareholding, may also decide to make a bit of mischief with AGM resolutions.
If the government votes to approve the resolution, it could inflame the pension talks, which are already in trouble. If 
it votes against it, could be popular politically, but Mueller will still get the money. And what message would that 
send to the board and the chief executive? Were Mueller to leave, for example, it would come at an awkward time 
with the pension talks poised, the likely Ryanair sell-down (barring a Ryanair appeal winning) and the government's 
plan to sell its own stake. An abstention on the vote is a third option, but could appear politically weak and 
completely pointless.
.........................
**IoD keeps quiet on Anglo impact**
The Institute of Directors (IoD) has been curiously quiet in the aftermath the Anglo trial, the outcome of which has 
sent a shiver down the spine of Ireland's caste of company directors and senior executives.
Ex Post Facto: Behind the stories
The prosecution successfully argued that you do not need to know you are breaking the law in order to be an officer 
in default, while the court was quick to point out that seeking legal advice or comfort from a regulatory body was not 
an actual defence.
Indeed, the potential consequences for thousands of company directors is the talk of many a boardroom at present. 
So, just what does the IoD, the usually vocal lobby group for directors, make of the case and its impact. ''We are not 
commenting, said a spokeswoman.
Has the Institute sought clarification about the impact of the case for company directors? ''It would not be 
appropriate to seek clarification while the trial remains outstanding, the spokeswoman added, referring to the 
imminent sentencing of Pat Whelan and Willie McAteer, two former Anglo executives both found guilty of 10 counts 
of breaches of Section 60 of the Companies Act.
The IoD, however, is ''monitoring the situation. The Institute is not usually so slow in coming out in staunch defence 
of Ireland's directors. Most notably, it strongly criticised the proposal to appoint members of the Irish Diaspora to 
state board, warning that aspects of the proposal were fundamentally flawed.
The issue was floated in 2012, when a host of heavy hitting executives, like the former Intel boss Craig Barrett, 
offered to sit on state boards free of charge.
The Institute launched a major salvo against the plan, arguing, amongst other points, that it was impractical given 
that many of the those volunteering were located thousands of miles away. The Institute copped some flak, with 
many accusing it of merely representing the interests of Irish directors, many of whom wanted to be on state boards 
themselves. Still, the campaign has obviously worked -- Barrett has yet to be appointed.
.........................
**Race underway for IDA's top job**
The closing date to apply for the top job at IDA Ireland was last Friday and an open race is in prospect. PwC, which 
is heading the recruitment process, is believed to have thrown the net far and wide, including talking to a number of 
senior figures in the multinational sector here. The salary of a mere' EUR 168,000 could be a barrier here, but the 
thinking is that there may be someone who has their money made in multinational land and might be prepared to do 
a stint for Ireland Inc'.
The case for an outsider may be boosted by the presence of chairman of the IDA board Frank Ryan, former chief 
executive of Enterprise Ireland and for many years a senior executive himself in the IDA. A chief executive from 
outside the system and a chairman from inside might work together, according to one theory.
However, a few insiders will have other ideas. Possibly the leading internal candidate is executive director Dermot 
Clohessy, with 25 years experience in the organisation, including seven in the US market. However, four of five 
others, including head of financial services Kieran Donoghue, and head of regions Mary Buckley, may also be 
runners.
The third group of candidates will be from other parts of the public service. Here one potential runner would be the 
head of Forfas, Martin Shanahan. Forfas is being merged in with the Department of Enterprise and Employment 
and Shanahan -- in the organisation since 2005 and previously with Cert and Failte Ireland -- has been involved in 
the development of the government jobs plan.
Whoever gets the job may face a tough enough gig. The proposed changing in international tax rules will not make 
it any easier to attract firms here -- and depending on how things fall it could make it a lot harder.
..........................
**Auditing rules put Big Four' against the rest**
Ex Post Facto: Behind the stories
For many years companies put their audit work out to tender mainly as a device to try to get the incumbent to drop 
their price a bit. Change, while not completely absent among the big companies, has been rare enough. Most 
notably, PwC and its various predecessors have been auditors of Bank of Ireland since the 1800s. Now EU rules 
are bringing change, dictating the auditors must be rotated.
The arguments on both sides of this have been well aired -- the risk of staying too long is that auditors get too close 
to clients. None blew the whistle on companies in the run-up to the banking crisis (what they should have noticed is 
another argument altogether).
The counter argument is that an auditor gets to know a client company and understand its business which -- in the 
case of big firms -- are often complex and across various jurisdictions.
The new EU rules are forcing change and, while firms are not obliged to change auditors for some years yet, many 
will start to do so over the next year, reckoning that if the contract is due out to tender they might as well change 
now. The first big marker here will be Kerry, which, as we report today, is due to go out to tender shortly for its 2016 
audit. Deloitte, one of the big four, is the incumbent.
The question now is whether there will be effectively a shuffling of audits between the big four of PwC, KPMG, EY 
(once upon a time Ernst & Young) and Deloitte, or whether the obligation to change will allow some of second tier -- 
such as Grant Thornton, BDO, FGS and Mazars -- to step up.
The second tier players have a decision to make here as the margins on auditing are not huge and the demands on 
staff are very significant.
Also, the rules no longer allow the incumbent auditor to do the often lucrative add-on consultancy work. Still, if they 
want to break into the big league this could be their chance.
Load-Date: April 28, 2014
End of Document
Government yet to decide on Mueller pay deal vote
Government yet to decide on Mueller pay deal vote
Sunday Business Post
April 27, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 463 words
Body
The government has not yet decided how it will vote on Aer Lingus chief executive Christoph Mueller's pay package 
at next Friday's annual general meeting of the airline.
Ministers are concerned about the level of Mueller's 2013 pay package and particularly about an increased pension 
contribution. However, they will not decide until later this week how they will vote on the non-binding resolution on 
executive remuneration to be voted on by shareholders.
Mueller's total pay package, including bonuses, increased last year to EUR 1.5 million, a nearly 20 per cent rise. 
Part of that increase was a rise in his pension from EUR 119,000 to EUR 175,000, increasing the level of the 
company's contribution to his pension from 25 per cent to 40 per cent of his base salary of EUR 450,000.
It comes at a time when workers in Aer Lingus are locked in a bitter dispute with the company over proposed cuts to 
their pension benefits, to close a deficit in the airport pension fund.
The government has a 25.11 per cent shareholding in the company, held through Minister for Finance Michael 
Noonan.
A spokesperson for the Minister for Transport said: ''The remuneration package of the chief executive is decided by 
the remuneration committee and the board of the company. It is not subject to government decision.
However he added: ''Minster Varadkar has indicated concern about the increased pension contribution for the chief 
executive at a time when the pensions issue more generally remains unresolved.
''The Minister is studying the matter and will consult with his government colleagues in the next week.
The government could vote for or against the resolution, or decide to abstain. The remuneration resolution is now 
binding, meaning that the company is not obliged to abide by the AGM vote.
Government yet to decide on Mueller pay deal vote
Part of Mueller's pay rise, according to the airline, was an exceptional bonus of EUR 400,000 ''to recognise and 
reward the chief executive officer's exceptional contribution to the company's successful business transformation 
and performance against the backdrop of a third unsuccessful hostile takeover bid for the company by Ryanair 
which, had it not been well-managed, could have represented a significant distraction to the Aer Lingus 
management team.
Ryanair is the airline's biggest shareholder, with 29.8 per cent of the company. When contacted by The Sunday 
Business Post and asked how it would vote on the AGM resolution, a spokesperson said that ''Ryanair will make its 
position clear at the AGM, but declined to specify which way the company would vote.
Telecoms billionaire Denis O'Brien has a 3.9 per cent share.
Aer Lingus's announced that pre-tax profits had dropped from EUR 40.4 million to EUR 39.5 million in the last year, 
while revenue rose from EUR 1.39 billion to EUR 1.43 billion.
Load-Date: April 28, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub News Roundup
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 24, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 508 words
Highlight: A range of new employment permits for those looking to work in Ireland are to be created under new 
legislation designed to make the country "the top
Body
A range of new employment permits for those looking to work in Ireland are to be created under new legislation 
designed to make the country "the top global location" for information and communications technology.
Minister for Jobs Richard Bruton yesterday launched the Employment Permits (Amendment) Bill, which he claims 
comes after significant reductions in the processing time for employment permits.
The Bill will create nine different "purposes for which an employment permit may be granted". These include a 
"critical skills" permit to replace the green card, aimed at directing skilled workers towards areas of the economy 
where they are needed; internship permits; permits for the sporting and cultural sectors; permits to allow spouses, 
partners and dependents of those with "critical skills" take up work; and permits to allow for transfers within 
international companies with Irish operations.
While the Department of Jobs says a key objective is to ensure that workers come from within Ireland and the 
European Economic Area (EEA), which is comprised of the EU plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, permits can 
be issued to other workers if they have skills needed by employers. The Irish Times XXXX Greenlight Capital, the 
dollar 10.3bn (E7.4bn) hedge-fund firm run by David Einhorn said it was betting against a group of technology 
stocks as evidence grows of a bubble. The firm is best known for rightly calling the market in 2008 by betting 
against Lehman Brothers stock before the bank collapsed in 2008. "There is a clear consensus that we are 
witnessing our second tech bubble in 15 years," the New York-based firm said in a quarterly letter to clients. 
Greenlight said that companies it's betting against may fall by at least 90pc "if and when the market reapplies 
traditional valuations", according to the letter. The Irish Independent XXXX Consumers are beginning to travel more 
following a reduction in the number of holidays taken during the downturn. More are opting for multi-trip travel 
insurance in what has been interpreted as a sign some consumers are back to taking more than one break a year. 
Insurance firm Getcover.ie said there has been a rise in the numbers taking multi-trip travel insurance, as opposed 
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub News Roundup
to those insuring a single trip. Arlene Tierney of Getcover.ie said: "In the last six months multi-trip policies have 
seen an 8pc increase in popularity, which would suggest that people are travelling more than once a year. The Irish 
Independent XXXX Stobart Air, formerly Aer Arann, has reshuffled its board with the appointment of former BMI 
Baby boss Julian Carr as managing director of the airline. Former Ryanair commercial director Tim Jeans has also 
been appointed a non-executive director of Stobart Air. Sean Brogan, who's been interim chief executive at Stobart 
Air since 2012, has been named chairman at the airline. It's thought he will continue to play a key role in shaping 
Stobart Air's future strategy. He has overseen a significant rejuvenation of the carrier's fortunes. The Irish 
Independent
Load-Date: April 25, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub News Roundup
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 24, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 508 words
Highlight: A range of new employment permits for those looking to work in Ireland are to be created under new 
legislation designed to make the country "the top
Body
A range of new employment permits for those looking to work in Ireland are to be created under new legislation 
designed to make the country "the top global location" for information and communications technology.
Minister for Jobs Richard Bruton yesterday launched the Employment Permits (Amendment) Bill, which he claims 
comes after significant reductions in the processing time for employment permits.
The Bill will create nine different "purposes for which an employment permit may be granted". These include a 
"critical skills" permit to replace the green card, aimed at directing skilled workers towards areas of the economy 
where they are needed; internship permits; permits for the sporting and cultural sectors; permits to allow spouses, 
partners and dependents of those with "critical skills" take up work; and permits to allow for transfers within 
international companies with Irish operations.
While the Department of Jobs says a key objective is to ensure that workers come from within Ireland and the 
European Economic Area (EEA), which is comprised of the EU plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, permits can 
be issued to other workers if they have skills needed by employers. The Irish Times XXXX Greenlight Capital, the 
dollar 10.3bn (E7.4bn) hedge-fund firm run by David Einhorn said it was betting against a group of technology 
stocks as evidence grows of a bubble. The firm is best known for rightly calling the market in 2008 by betting 
against Lehman Brothers stock before the bank collapsed in 2008. "There is a clear consensus that we are 
witnessing our second tech bubble in 15 years," the New York-based firm said in a quarterly letter to clients. 
Greenlight said that companies it's betting against may fall by at least 90pc "if and when the market reapplies 
traditional valuations", according to the letter. The Irish Independent XXXX Consumers are beginning to travel more 
following a reduction in the number of holidays taken during the downturn. More are opting for multi-trip travel 
insurance in what has been interpreted as a sign some consumers are back to taking more than one break a year. 
Insurance firm Getcover.ie said there has been a rise in the numbers taking multi-trip travel insurance, as opposed 
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub News Roundup
to those insuring a single trip. Arlene Tierney of Getcover.ie said: "In the last six months multi-trip policies have 
seen an 8pc increase in popularity, which would suggest that people are travelling more than once a year. The Irish 
Independent XXXX Stobart Air, formerly Aer Arann, has reshuffled its board with the appointment of former BMI 
Baby boss Julian Carr as managing director of the airline. Former Ryanair commercial director Tim Jeans has also 
been appointed a non-executive director of Stobart Air. Sean Brogan, who's been interim chief executive at Stobart 
Air since 2012, has been named chairman at the airline. It's thought he will continue to play a key role in shaping 
Stobart Air's future strategy. He has overseen a significant rejuvenation of the carrier's fortunes. The Irish 
Independent
Load-Date: April 24, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub News Roundup
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 24, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 508 words
Highlight: A range of new employment permits for those looking to work in Ireland are to be created under new 
legislation designed to make the country "the top
Body
A range of new employment permits for those looking to work in Ireland are to be created under new legislation 
designed to make the country "the top global location" for information and communications technology.
Minister for Jobs Richard Bruton yesterday launched the Employment Permits (Amendment) Bill, which he claims 
comes after significant reductions in the processing time for employment permits.
The Bill will create nine different "purposes for which an employment permit may be granted". These include a 
"critical skills" permit to replace the green card, aimed at directing skilled workers towards areas of the economy 
where they are needed; internship permits; permits for the sporting and cultural sectors; permits to allow spouses, 
partners and dependents of those with "critical skills" take up work; and permits to allow for transfers within 
international companies with Irish operations.
While the Department of Jobs says a key objective is to ensure that workers come from within Ireland and the 
European Economic Area (EEA), which is comprised of the EU plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, permits can 
be issued to other workers if they have skills needed by employers. The Irish Times XXXX Greenlight Capital, the 
dollar 10.3bn (E7.4bn) hedge-fund firm run by David Einhorn said it was betting against a group of technology 
stocks as evidence grows of a bubble. The firm is best known for rightly calling the market in 2008 by betting 
against Lehman Brothers stock before the bank collapsed in 2008. "There is a clear consensus that we are 
witnessing our second tech bubble in 15 years," the New York-based firm said in a quarterly letter to clients. 
Greenlight said that companies it's betting against may fall by at least 90pc "if and when the market reapplies 
traditional valuations", according to the letter. The Irish Independent XXXX Consumers are beginning to travel more 
following a reduction in the number of holidays taken during the downturn. More are opting for multi-trip travel 
insurance in what has been interpreted as a sign some consumers are back to taking more than one break a year. 
Insurance firm Getcover.ie said there has been a rise in the numbers taking multi-trip travel insurance, as opposed 
Roundup-New rules to create Irish IT hub News Roundup
to those insuring a single trip. Arlene Tierney of Getcover.ie said: "In the last six months multi-trip policies have 
seen an 8pc increase in popularity, which would suggest that people are travelling more than once a year. The Irish 
Independent XXXX Stobart Air, formerly Aer Arann, has reshuffled its board with the appointment of former BMI 
Baby boss Julian Carr as managing director of the airline. Former Ryanair commercial director Tim Jeans has also 
been appointed a non-executive director of Stobart Air. Sean Brogan, who's been interim chief executive at Stobart 
Air since 2012, has been named chairman at the airline. It's thought he will continue to play a key role in shaping 
Stobart Air's future strategy. He has overseen a significant rejuvenation of the carrier's fortunes. The Irish 
Independent
Load-Date: April 24, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed"; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 23, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 493 words
Highlight: Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of 
E185,000.Consultants remain among the highest
Body
Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of E185,000.
Consultants remain among the highest paid staff in the public service, even taking into account the pay cuts under 
the Haddington Road deal.
Although they are in a minority, the best paid are academic consultants who have gross salaries of nearly E223,000 
for a combination of university and hospital work.
Being a college professor remains one of the best paid jobs in the medical field with some opting for lower salaries 
of E214,744 to allow them the option of treating private patients also. The Irish Independent XXXX Some of the 
world's biggest drugmakers - including a host of Ireland's largest employers - have announced a series of massive 
deals that could have major consequences for the country's jobs-rich pharmaceutical sector. Swiss-headquartered 
Novartis, the world's second biggest drugmaker by sales, is at the centre of what analysts are calling the "pharma 
frenzy". It employs 1,479 people in Ireland across four sites in Dublin and Cork. Yesterday, the company 
announced a multi-billion revamp that includes swapping assets with GlaxoSmithKline, which itself employs 1,450 
in this country, as well as selling its animal health arm in a bid to simplify its business and cope with healthcare 
spending cuts and generic competition. The Irish Independent XXXX Northern Ireland firm Budget Energy has been 
busy making in-roads into the electricity market there since it launched in 2011. Founded by Eleanor McEvoy, the 
pre-pay service has so far notched up over 55,000 customers The company has, on a number of occasions, said it 
intends to enter the electricity market in the Republic early in 2014 and it has recently established a company here. 
The pre-pay electricity market in Ireland is already pretty active, with companies such as Pinergy and Prepay Power 
competing for customers. Prepay Power was founded by Andrew Collins, who made millions from the sale of 
insurance business 123.ie to RSA in 2010. His power company is backed by former Ryanair COO Michael Cawley. 
The Irish Independent XXXX A proposed luxury hotel development by former Irish Nationwide banker Michael 
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Fingleton for a Montenegro resort still lies in a dilapidated state, almost a year after he promised local officials he 
would advance plans for the project. Photographs supplied to The Irish Times by Australian blogger Paul Erickson 
illustrate the eyesore that the abandoned Hotel Fjord Kotor has become for the otherwise picturesque coastal 
tourist town. The hotel was to have been redeveloped into a luxury five-star resort by Mr Fingleton, who reportedly 
paid over E5 million in 2006 for control of the project through his firm, New Fjord Developments. Last year he told 
local mayor Marija Catovic he intends to pursue the redevelopment, which had become bogged down in disputes 
between Mr Fingleton, his creditors and former business partners. The Irish Times
Load-Date: April 23, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed"; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 23, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 493 words
Highlight: Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of 
E185,000.Consultants remain among the highest
Body
Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of E185,000.
Consultants remain among the highest paid staff in the public service, even taking into account the pay cuts under 
the Haddington Road deal.
Although they are in a minority, the best paid are academic consultants who have gross salaries of nearly E223,000 
for a combination of university and hospital work.
Being a college professor remains one of the best paid jobs in the medical field with some opting for lower salaries 
of E214,744 to allow them the option of treating private patients also. The Irish Independent XXXX Some of the 
world's biggest drugmakers - including a host of Ireland's largest employers - have announced a series of massive 
deals that could have major consequences for the country's jobs-rich pharmaceutical sector. Swiss-headquartered 
Novartis, the world's second biggest drugmaker by sales, is at the centre of what analysts are calling the "pharma 
frenzy". It employs 1,479 people in Ireland across four sites in Dublin and Cork. Yesterday, the company 
announced a multi-billion revamp that includes swapping assets with GlaxoSmithKline, which itself employs 1,450 
in this country, as well as selling its animal health arm in a bid to simplify its business and cope with healthcare 
spending cuts and generic competition. The Irish Independent XXXX Northern Ireland firm Budget Energy has been 
busy making in-roads into the electricity market there since it launched in 2011. Founded by Eleanor McEvoy, the 
pre-pay service has so far notched up over 55,000 customers The company has, on a number of occasions, said it 
intends to enter the electricity market in the Republic early in 2014 and it has recently established a company here. 
The pre-pay electricity market in Ireland is already pretty active, with companies such as Pinergy and Prepay Power 
competing for customers. Prepay Power was founded by Andrew Collins, who made millions from the sale of 
insurance business 123.ie to RSA in 2010. His power company is backed by former Ryanair COO Michael Cawley. 
The Irish Independent XXXX A proposed luxury hotel development by former Irish Nationwide banker Michael 
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Fingleton for a Montenegro resort still lies in a dilapidated state, almost a year after he promised local officials he 
would advance plans for the project. Photographs supplied to The Irish Times by Australian blogger Paul Erickson 
illustrate the eyesore that the abandoned Hotel Fjord Kotor has become for the otherwise picturesque coastal 
tourist town. The hotel was to have been redeveloped into a luxury five-star resort by Mr Fingleton, who reportedly 
paid over E5 million in 2006 for control of the project through his firm, New Fjord Developments. Last year he told 
local mayor Marija Catovic he intends to pursue the redevelopment, which had become bogged down in disputes 
between Mr Fingleton, his creditors and former business partners. The Irish Times
Load-Date: April 24, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed"; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 23, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 493 words
Highlight: Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of 
E185,000.Consultants remain among the highest
Body
Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of E185,000.
Consultants remain among the highest paid staff in the public service, even taking into account the pay cuts under 
the Haddington Road deal.
Although they are in a minority, the best paid are academic consultants who have gross salaries of nearly E223,000 
for a combination of university and hospital work.
Being a college professor remains one of the best paid jobs in the medical field with some opting for lower salaries 
of E214,744 to allow them the option of treating private patients also. The Irish Independent XXXX Some of the 
world's biggest drugmakers - including a host of Ireland's largest employers - have announced a series of massive 
deals that could have major consequences for the country's jobs-rich pharmaceutical sector. Swiss-headquartered 
Novartis, the world's second biggest drugmaker by sales, is at the centre of what analysts are calling the "pharma 
frenzy". It employs 1,479 people in Ireland across four sites in Dublin and Cork. Yesterday, the company 
announced a multi-billion revamp that includes swapping assets with GlaxoSmithKline, which itself employs 1,450 
in this country, as well as selling its animal health arm in a bid to simplify its business and cope with healthcare 
spending cuts and generic competition. The Irish Independent XXXX Northern Ireland firm Budget Energy has been 
busy making in-roads into the electricity market there since it launched in 2011. Founded by Eleanor McEvoy, the 
pre-pay service has so far notched up over 55,000 customers The company has, on a number of occasions, said it 
intends to enter the electricity market in the Republic early in 2014 and it has recently established a company here. 
The pre-pay electricity market in Ireland is already pretty active, with companies such as Pinergy and Prepay Power 
competing for customers. Prepay Power was founded by Andrew Collins, who made millions from the sale of 
insurance business 123.ie to RSA in 2010. His power company is backed by former Ryanair COO Michael Cawley. 
The Irish Independent XXXX A proposed luxury hotel development by former Irish Nationwide banker Michael 
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Fingleton for a Montenegro resort still lies in a dilapidated state, almost a year after he promised local officials he 
would advance plans for the project. Photographs supplied to The Irish Times by Australian blogger Paul Erickson 
illustrate the eyesore that the abandoned Hotel Fjord Kotor has become for the otherwise picturesque coastal 
tourist town. The hotel was to have been redeveloped into a luxury five-star resort by Mr Fingleton, who reportedly 
paid over E5 million in 2006 for control of the project through his firm, New Fjord Developments. Last year he told 
local mayor Marija Catovic he intends to pursue the redevelopment, which had become bogged down in disputes 
between Mr Fingleton, his creditors and former business partners. The Irish Times
Load-Date: April 23, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed"; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 23, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 493 words
Highlight: Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of 
E185,000.Consultants remain among the highest
Body
Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of E185,000.
Consultants remain among the highest paid staff in the public service, even taking into account the pay cuts under 
the Haddington Road deal.
Although they are in a minority, the best paid are academic consultants who have gross salaries of nearly E223,000 
for a combination of university and hospital work.
Being a college professor remains one of the best paid jobs in the medical field with some opting for lower salaries 
of E214,744 to allow them the option of treating private patients also. The Irish Independent XXXX Some of the 
world's biggest drugmakers - including a host of Ireland's largest employers - have announced a series of massive 
deals that could have major consequences for the country's jobs-rich pharmaceutical sector. Swiss-headquartered 
Novartis, the world's second biggest drugmaker by sales, is at the centre of what analysts are calling the "pharma 
frenzy". It employs 1,479 people in Ireland across four sites in Dublin and Cork. Yesterday, the company 
announced a multi-billion revamp that includes swapping assets with GlaxoSmithKline, which itself employs 1,450 
in this country, as well as selling its animal health arm in a bid to simplify its business and cope with healthcare 
spending cuts and generic competition. The Irish Independent XXXX Northern Ireland firm Budget Energy has been 
busy making in-roads into the electricity market there since it launched in 2011. Founded by Eleanor McEvoy, the 
pre-pay service has so far notched up over 55,000 customers The company has, on a number of occasions, said it 
intends to enter the electricity market in the Republic early in 2014 and it has recently established a company here. 
The pre-pay electricity market in Ireland is already pretty active, with companies such as Pinergy and Prepay Power 
competing for customers. Prepay Power was founded by Andrew Collins, who made millions from the sale of 
insurance business 123.ie to RSA in 2010. His power company is backed by former Ryanair COO Michael Cawley. 
The Irish Independent XXXX A proposed luxury hotel development by former Irish Nationwide banker Michael 
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Fingleton for a Montenegro resort still lies in a dilapidated state, almost a year after he promised local officials he 
would advance plans for the project. Photographs supplied to The Irish Times by Australian blogger Paul Erickson 
illustrate the eyesore that the abandoned Hotel Fjord Kotor has become for the otherwise picturesque coastal 
tourist town. The hotel was to have been redeveloped into a luxury five-star resort by Mr Fingleton, who reportedly 
paid over E5 million in 2006 for control of the project through his firm, New Fjord Developments. Last year he told 
local mayor Marija Catovic he intends to pursue the redevelopment, which had become bogged down in disputes 
between Mr Fingleton, his creditors and former business partners. The Irish Times
Load-Date: April 25, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed"; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 23, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 493 words
Highlight: Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of 
E185,000.Consultants remain among the highest
Body
Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of E185,000.
Consultants remain among the highest paid staff in the public service, even taking into account the pay cuts under 
the Haddington Road deal.
Although they are in a minority, the best paid are academic consultants who have gross salaries of nearly E223,000 
for a combination of university and hospital work.
Being a college professor remains one of the best paid jobs in the medical field with some opting for lower salaries 
of E214,744 to allow them the option of treating private patients also. The Irish Independent XXXX Some of the 
world's biggest drugmakers - including a host of Ireland's largest employers - have announced a series of massive 
deals that could have major consequences for the country's jobs-rich pharmaceutical sector. Swiss-headquartered 
Novartis, the world's second biggest drugmaker by sales, is at the centre of what analysts are calling the "pharma 
frenzy". It employs 1,479 people in Ireland across four sites in Dublin and Cork. Yesterday, the company 
announced a multi-billion revamp that includes swapping assets with GlaxoSmithKline, which itself employs 1,450 
in this country, as well as selling its animal health arm in a bid to simplify its business and cope with healthcare 
spending cuts and generic competition. The Irish Independent XXXX Northern Ireland firm Budget Energy has been 
busy making in-roads into the electricity market there since it launched in 2011. Founded by Eleanor McEvoy, the 
pre-pay service has so far notched up over 55,000 customers The company has, on a number of occasions, said it 
intends to enter the electricity market in the Republic early in 2014 and it has recently established a company here. 
The pre-pay electricity market in Ireland is already pretty active, with companies such as Pinergy and Prepay Power 
competing for customers. Prepay Power was founded by Andrew Collins, who made millions from the sale of 
insurance business 123.ie to RSA in 2010. His power company is backed by former Ryanair COO Michael Cawley. 
The Irish Independent XXXX A proposed luxury hotel development by former Irish Nationwide banker Michael 
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Fingleton for a Montenegro resort still lies in a dilapidated state, almost a year after he promised local officials he 
would advance plans for the project. Photographs supplied to The Irish Times by Australian blogger Paul Erickson 
illustrate the eyesore that the abandoned Hotel Fjord Kotor has become for the otherwise picturesque coastal 
tourist town. The hotel was to have been redeveloped into a luxury five-star resort by Mr Fingleton, who reportedly 
paid over E5 million in 2006 for control of the project through his firm, New Fjord Developments. Last year he told 
local mayor Marija Catovic he intends to pursue the redevelopment, which had become bogged down in disputes 
between Mr Fingleton, his creditors and former business partners. The Irish Times
Load-Date: April 23, 2014
End of Document
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed"; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
April 23, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 493 words
Highlight: Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of 
E185,000.Consultants remain among the highest
Body
Some long-serving hospital consultants continue to be paid more than the Taoiseach's salary of E185,000.
Consultants remain among the highest paid staff in the public service, even taking into account the pay cuts under 
the Haddington Road deal.
Although they are in a minority, the best paid are academic consultants who have gross salaries of nearly E223,000 
for a combination of university and hospital work.
Being a college professor remains one of the best paid jobs in the medical field with some opting for lower salaries 
of E214,744 to allow them the option of treating private patients also. The Irish Independent XXXX Some of the 
world's biggest drugmakers - including a host of Ireland's largest employers - have announced a series of massive 
deals that could have major consequences for the country's jobs-rich pharmaceutical sector. Swiss-headquartered 
Novartis, the world's second biggest drugmaker by sales, is at the centre of what analysts are calling the "pharma 
frenzy". It employs 1,479 people in Ireland across four sites in Dublin and Cork. Yesterday, the company 
announced a multi-billion revamp that includes swapping assets with GlaxoSmithKline, which itself employs 1,450 
in this country, as well as selling its animal health arm in a bid to simplify its business and cope with healthcare 
spending cuts and generic competition. The Irish Independent XXXX Northern Ireland firm Budget Energy has been 
busy making in-roads into the electricity market there since it launched in 2011. Founded by Eleanor McEvoy, the 
pre-pay service has so far notched up over 55,000 customers The company has, on a number of occasions, said it 
intends to enter the electricity market in the Republic early in 2014 and it has recently established a company here. 
The pre-pay electricity market in Ireland is already pretty active, with companies such as Pinergy and Prepay Power 
competing for customers. Prepay Power was founded by Andrew Collins, who made millions from the sale of 
insurance business 123.ie to RSA in 2010. His power company is backed by former Ryanair COO Michael Cawley. 
The Irish Independent XXXX A proposed luxury hotel development by former Irish Nationwide banker Michael 
Roundup-Consultants "chicken feed" News Roundup
Fingleton for a Montenegro resort still lies in a dilapidated state, almost a year after he promised local officials he 
would advance plans for the project. Photographs supplied to The Irish Times by Australian blogger Paul Erickson 
illustrate the eyesore that the abandoned Hotel Fjord Kotor has become for the otherwise picturesque coastal 
tourist town. The hotel was to have been redeveloped into a luxury five-star resort by Mr Fingleton, who reportedly 
paid over E5 million in 2006 for control of the project through his firm, New Fjord Developments. Last year he told 
local mayor Marija Catovic he intends to pursue the redevelopment, which had become bogged down in disputes 
between Mr Fingleton, his creditors and former business partners. The Irish Times
Load-Date: April 24, 2014
End of Document
Outsourcing helps airlines keep lid on costs TRAVEL & LEISURE
Outsourcing helps airlines keep lid on costs; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
April 22, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 662 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: News analysis
And opportunities for companies providing airport services are plenty, writes Jane Wild
Body
Hand in your passport at the airport check-in desk and the chances are the staff are not employed by the airline - 
despite the uniform they wear.
Neither would be the woman who checks your ticket at the gate, nor the man on the telephone when you change 
your flight booking, and probably not the many people who clean and maintain the aircraft, nor those who organise 
the sandwiches on board.
In an attempt to drive down costs, airlines are scrutinising every part of what they do to see if someone else can do 
it more cheaply.
"We outsource everything that we can outsource," says Warwick Brady, chief operations officer at easyJet. "As long 
as we can manage it and control it, it gets outsourced."
The market in services provided to airlines, excluding back-office functions such as IT, is worth EUR200bn globally 
and growing, according to estimates by KPMG.
Outsourcing helps airlines keep lid on costs TRAVEL & LEISURE
Typically, budget airlines such as easyJet and Ryanair are the biggest outsourcers as they look to keep a tight lid 
on their costs.
Only staff in easyJet's core functions, such as its crew and its pilots, are on the payroll, leaving services such as 
passenger helplines and crew rosters to specialists in Montreal and Krakow respectively.
With the aviation market set to grow at about 5 per cent a year, according to industry estimates, and the global rise 
of low-cost carriers, opportunities for companies providing airport services are plentiful.
Tim Scharwath, executive vice-president of logistics provider Kuehne & Nagel, says: "If you look at the 
development of Ryanair and those companies, if you look at how many engines a company like Rolls-Royce is 
producing, if you look at the amount of aeroplanes a company like Airbus is producing - those are things which 
clearly point to a lot of growth." Kuehne & Nagel has developed a global business to transport spare aircraft parts 
around the clock.
John Menzies, the world's second-biggest provider with a 3 per cent share of the global ground handling market, is 
targeting 10-15 per cent growth in its aviation division, covering cargo and ground handling spanning check-in to 
aircraft preparation services.
Craig Smyth, managing director of Menzies Aviation, says: "We have targeted 150 of the top airports [globally] and 
we'd like to open in about 50 of those within the next five years."
Demand for airport services has also spurred consolidation in the sector, as the bulk of providers are usually small 
local operators. Eduardo Junco, director of aviation strategy at KPMG, says: "It's a bitty business, it's airport by 
airport, and the opportunities are not always known to everybody across all airports."
Deregulation and the privatisation of airports have opened up competition and are helping providers increase 
market share. In 2000, airports worldwide provided almost a fifth of ground handling, but by the end of this decade 
that would have shrunk to 5 per cent, according to data from Menzies.
Jon Lienard, analyst at N+1 Singer says: "There's still a massive amount done in-house, within the airlines and 
airports, and it varies by region." Some estimates suggest only a third of handling has been outsourced by the 
airlines.
But while outsourcing saves money, it can come with big risks . Coolin Desai, transport and logistics lead partner at 
PwC, says: "Being in an airport environment the security aspect is important .
"Staff must be vetted. Because of heightened terrorism threat the need for an outsourced provider to demonstrate 
high-quality security credentials has become more important."
Things do go wrong, says Mr Brady of easyJet, which has 20,000 people working for the airline across 140 airports 
that are not on its payroll.
"That's the challenge - we need to deliver excellent customer service . . . even though it's outsourced."
Sometimes outsourcing does not work - as easyJet grew the engineering team that carried out engine maintenance 
work grew from seven to 140 people so the airline insourced all the work as it was more cost-effective.
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
End of Document
Hundreds of pilots take flight from Ryanair with more planning exit
Hundreds of pilots take flight from Ryanair with more planning exit
Sunday Business Post
April 20, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 696 words
Body
Hundreds of Ryanair pilots have left the airline in the last 12 to 18 months, and hundreds more plan to leave in the 
next 12 months, according to information acquired by the Ryanair Pilot Group (RPG).
Between 300 and 500 Ryanair pilots are understood to have left the airline in the last 18 months to take up jobs with 
the new transatlantic service provider Norwegian Air Shuttle, as well as with Middle Eastern airlines and other 
operators such as Thomson and Wizz Air.
In a new survey of Ryanair pilots which was carried out by RPG and generated responses from 1,128 of the 
airline's pilots, almost one third said they planned to leave the Irish-owned airline within the next 12 months. That 
figure jumped to 50 per cent when it included pilots planning to leave within in the next two years.
Two in three said they might reconsider their plans to leave the airline if issues around pay, treatment and respect 
were improved. A Ryanair spokesman disputed the RPG's figures for pilots who have left the airline, and said the 
company currently employs over 2,500 pilots. In a financial statement in March 2013, Ryanair listed their pilot 
numbers at 2,625.
In a memo sent to all pilots on April 11 by Michael Hickey, Ryanair's group director of operations which has been 
seen for this newspaper, the company appears to offer new incentives to pilots in order to retain them.
These include an optional extra payment of Euro 10 per scheduled block [flying] hour for first officers who are 
enrolled in the command upgrade programme (to become captains) after May 1, and an improved co-pilots' ''stable 
earnings programme. The airline is ''also looking at the option of offering additional salaried contracts, through both 
Ryanair and third parties, according to Hickey's memo.
Ryanair spokesman Robin Kiely said the company did ''not comment on departures or recruitment.
''We have a waiting list of over 2,000 qualified pilots hoping to join Ryanair on an ongoing basis, he said. ''New base 
[employment] agreements included pay increases, roster improvements and other benefits, which is why we have 
Hundreds of pilots take flight from Ryanair with more planning exit
pilots waiting to join at a time when pilot unions across Europe are negotiating job cuts and pay cuts in Iberia, SAS, 
Air Berlin and Alitalia, to name a few.
The company would not provide a breakdown of the split of captains and first officers employed as pilots. The 
former are senior to, and more experienced than, the latter.
RPG chairman Evert van Zwol said, based on information provided by RPG members from across the Ryanair 
network, ''we have very strong evidence to believe that up to 500 pilots have left the company in the last 18 months.
''There may be many reasons for pilots leaving, but our recent survey and feedback from pilots suggest it is due to 
dissatisfaction with terms and conditions of employment, and how pilots are treated by Ryanair, he said. ''The 
survey provides worrying information about the intentions of current pilots to leave Ryanair, which we would like to 
see addressed.
.....
**New Ryanair website failing to attract customer search traffic**
Has Ryanair become too consumer-friendly? New figures reveal that the relaunch of the airline's website, a key 
plank of its new customer-focused strategy, has reduced its visibility across the main online search platforms.
According to web analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results of millions of 
online searches when customer seek flight details to destinations where it flies. Ryanair said the results are merely 
a blip, but Intelligent Positioning believe it could impact upon sales ahead of the busy summer season.
Ryanair's previous no-frills website had high visibility on country destination searches, meaning its website 
appeared high on searches engines such as Google when a browser sought information on flights. The new site, 
however, is not having the same level of traction, according to Intelligent Positioning.
Ryanair is in the midst of an image metamorphosis as it seeks to woo customers with a kinder image. Families will 
soon be able to pre book seats together, while second bags will be free. A business class offering, meanwhile, is 
just months away.
Load-Date: April 20, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's website redesign slips in Google rankings Travel & leisure
Ryanair's website redesign slips in Google rankings; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
April 19, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES NEWS DIGEST; Pg. 17
Length: 246 words
Byline: Robert Cookson and Jane Wild in London
Body
Ryanair's website has been sent tumbling down the Google results rankings for a wide range of search terms after 
a redesign that was meant to boost the airline's brand image and make it easier for customers to book flights.
Ryanair had until recen-tly top-10 slots in Google's rankings for terms such as "flights to France". Yet in recent 
weeks it has tumbled. Searches for many relevant terms no longer inc-lude Ryanair in the top-100 results, 
according to data from web analytics group Intelligent Positioning.
The search problems are believed to be an unintended consequence of the website's revamp.
The analytics group's Sam Silverwood-Cope said Ryanair had "screwed up" and would miss "a hell of a lot of 
traffic".
When Ryanair restructured its website last month and this, it created new web page addresses, or URLs, but failed 
to correctly redirect the old pages. This resulted in Google seeing the defunct pages and awarding a lower ranking.
Ryanair said most of the 1.2m hits a day on its site were from direct visitors rather than those who came via search 
engines. It said that bookings this quarter were about 5 per cent higher than the same period last year.
Analysts said the company's struggles with search engine optimisation could have a financial impact. "They don't 
appear where they'd like [in the rankings]," said Gerald Khoo, Liberum transport analyst.
Ryanair 's website redesign slips in Google rankings Travel & leisure
According to Intelligent Positioning data, Ryanair gets about a fifth of its web traffic via search engines.
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
End of Document
A sparkling success Wine
A sparkling success; Wine
Financial Times (London, England)
April 19, 2014 Saturday
Europe Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 6
Length: 1081 words
Byline: Jancis Robinson
Body
Jean-Guillaume Prats' professional life has changed enormously since February 1 last year. On that Friday he 
walked out of Château Cos d'Estournel in St-Estèphe and, the following week, started his new job at the Paris 
headquarters of LVMH's wine interests. As the public face of Cos, sold to Swiss businessman Michel Reybier in 
2000 by his father Bruno, Prats was no stranger to airports and long-haul flights. But now, instead of the route 
between Bordeaux and winemaker dinners in Asia, his travel schedule takes him to virtually all corners of the wine 
world, as well as frequent trips to London, where his boss Christophe Navarre is based.
As president and chief executive of Estates and Wines, the Moët Hennessy wine division, Prats' remit is personally 
to look after the fortunes of all LVMH's non-French wine interests: Cloudy Bay in New Zealand; Cape Mentelle and 
Domaine Chandon in Australia; Domaine Chandon and Newton in California; Domaine Chandon in Brazil; Domaine 
Chandon, Terrazas de los Andes and Cheval des Andes in Argentina; Numanthia in Toro in northern Spain (a 
sparkling wine project in Cava country was abandoned long ago); Domaine Chandon in India; Domaine Chandon 
and a new red wine project in China. The major problem of this new role is that there is never a moment of the day 
or night when his white iPhone lies silent. But, during the three days I spent with him recently in China, he claimed 
that his current travel schedule is less tiring than the old one of having to perform over multiple vintages of Cos until 
late into the night.
We spent quite a bit of the nearly eight hours we drove in the Himalayan foothills discussing travel, both of us being 
travel agents manqués. His father, a Swiss resident and keen sailor, apparently bulk buys EasyJet tickets between 
A sparkling success Wine
Geneva and Alicante. Prats, meanwhile, showed a keen interest in the Ryanair Stansted-Bergerac link that I drew 
to his attention. He never knows exactly when he might be needed for meetings in London and Paris, even though 
he and his family are for the time being still based in Bordeaux. He admits that 80 per cent of his assistant's time is 
spent organising, and re-organising, his schedule.
But he seems to have fully made the transition from being Monsieur Cos of St-Estèphe to Monsieur Moët Hennessy 
of the world of wine. He pointed out with some pride that Moët Hennessy was the first major French wine company 
to venture into the New World, establishing a winery in Mendoza in 1959. They started their sparkling wine 
enterprises in Brazil and the Napa Valley in 1973, six years before Baron Philippe de Rothschild startled the wine 
world by announcing the seminal joint venture with Robert Mondavi of California that was to become Opus One.
He reeled off more reasons to be cheerful as head of the world's most disparate upmarket wine company. ("I have 
cut out all wines that sell for less than $15 a bottle," he told me firmly.) Cloudy Bay needs no introduction, but he is 
particularly proud of their 1,000 hectares of Argentine high-altitude vines, where single-vineyard bottlings are being 
developed. Then there was the impressive number of visitors to Domaines Chandon at Yountville in Napa Valley 
and Yarra Valley outside Melbourne: 250,000 and 220,000 a year respectively.
The combination of wine and carbon dioxide is crucial to the wine fortunes of LVMH - not just with Moët & Chandon 
and all its champagne brands (Krug, Veuve Clicquot, Ruinart et al) but globally too. They are betting on the fact that 
the world's wine drinkers will want bubbles wherever they are - even in red wine-obsessed China. The fizz from 
their new winery in Ningxia, launching this September, will be heavily marketed exclusively to the Chinese, Moët 
Hennessy's greatest revenue earners. The wines made sparkling in the Yarra Valley are available only in Moët 
Hennessy's Asia-Pacific markets.
All six Domaines Chandon produce wines in the image of champagne, transforming locally grown Chardonnay and 
Pinot grapes (plus a bit of Riesling Italico in Brazil) into fizz using the same intricate process as in France's 
Champagne region - except for the new Indian operation which makes Chenin Blanc and Riesling Italico fizzy in 
tank rather than in individual bottles. Although destined for very different markets, all six will have the same label - 
presumably involving Prats in many meetings. Brits will be first to taste the new livery: Argentina's Chandon is 
launched in the UK next month.
And there is a British element to the story of a forthcoming addition to the LVMH portfolio, a New Zealand Pinot Noir 
based on a vineyard in Central Otago recently leased together with leading producer Felton Road. When he heard 
that Prats was to leave his family's wine estate, Stephen Browett, the owner of London wine merchants Farr 
Vintners invited him for lunch and served him Felton Road, Block 3 Pinot Noir 2002 and a 2002 Domaine Dujac 
Premier Cru Chambolle-Musigny. The Kiwi Pinot so impressed Prats that he visited Central Otago on his next trip to 
Marlborough, where the Sauvignon Blanc Cloudy Bay is made.
Prats is also spending considerable energy upgrading the Newton vineyards in the Napa Valley to maximise their 
potential. It would be strange if there were not further acquisitions. "We should be in Italy," he told me, and only this 
week LVMH announced their first foray in Burgundy with their acquisition of the grand cru Clos des Lambrays.
But I had the impression that the venture in Yunnan, whose produce may not be launched before 2016, had 
particularly captured Prats' imagination. I will be writing about this virtually unexplored corner of the wine world in 
coming months.
Tasting notes on Purple Pages of jancisrobinson.com. More columns at ft.com/robinson
Chandon's fizz family
With location and year of establishment. India and China are in the pipeline.
 Argentina, Mendoza, 1959 The oldest Moët Hennessy wine outpost, in Agrelo, makes a zesty, fruity blend of Pinot 
Noir and Chardonnay.
A sparkling success Wine
 Brazil, Serra Gaucha, 1973 40 per cent Riesling Italico with the usual Chardonnay and Pinot Noir seems no 
detriment to delicacy. Featherlight, fun.
 California, Napa Valley, 1973 All three champagne grapes make a slightly richer wine than its stablemates.
 Australia, Yarra Valley, 1986 A blend of Victorian and South Australian cool vineyard fruit. 60 per cent Chardonnay, 
and Pinot Noir, with more than 20 per cent reserve wines up to three years old. Sophisticated, dry.
Stockists from winesearcher.com
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
End of Document
A Sparkling Success Food and Drink - Wine
A Sparkling Success; Food and Drink - Wine
Financial Times (London, England)
April 19, 2014 Saturday
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT MAGAZINE; Pg. 37
Length: 1133 words
Byline: Jancis Robinson
Body
Jean-Guillaume Prats' professional life has changed enormously since February 1 last year. On that Friday he 
walked out of Chateau Cos d'Estournel in St-Estephe and, the following week, started his new job at the Paris 
headquarters of LVMH's wine interests. As the public face of Cos, sold to Swiss businessman Michel Reybier in 
2000 by his father Bruno, Prats was no stranger to airports and long-haul flights. But now, instead of the route 
between Bordeaux and winemaker dinners in Asia, his travel schedule takes him to virtually all corners of the wine 
world, as well as frequent trips to London, where his boss Christophe Navarre is based.
As president and CEO of Estates and Wines, the Moet Hennessy wine division, Prats' remit is personally to look 
after the fortunes of all LVMH's non-French wine interests: Cloudy Bay in New Zealand; Cape Mentelle and 
Domaine Chandon in Australia; Domaine Chandon and Newton in California; Domaine Chandon in Brazil; Domaine 
Chandon, Terrazas de los Andes and Cheval des Andes in Argentina; Numanthia in Toro in northern Spain (a 
sparkling wine project in Cava country was abandoned long ago); Domaine Chandon in India; Domaine Chandon 
and a new red wine project in China. The major problem of this new role is that there is never a moment of the day 
or night when his white iPhone lies silent. But, during the three days Ispent with him recently in China, he claimed 
that his current travel schedule is less tiring than the old one of having to perform over multiple vintages of Cos until 
late into the night.
We spent quite a bit of the nearly eight hours we drove in the Himalayan foothills discussing travel, both of us being 
travel agents manques. His father, now a Swiss resident and keen sailor, apparently bulk buys EasyJet tickets 
between Geneva and Alicante. Prats, meanwhile, showed a keen interest in the Ryanair Stansted-Bergerac link that 
I drew to his attention. He never knows exactly when he might be needed for meetings in London and Paris, even 
A Sparkling Success Food and Drink - Wine
though he and his family are for the time being still based in Bordeaux. He admits that 80 per cent of his assistant's 
time is spent organising, and re-organising, his schedule.
But he seems to have fully made the transition from being Monsieur Cos of St-Estephe to Monsieur Moet Hennessy 
of the world of wine.
He pointed out with some pride that Moet Hennessy was the first major French wine company to venture into the 
New World, establishing a winery in Mendoza as long ago as 1959. They started their sparkling wine enterprises in 
Brazil and the Napa Valley in 1973, six years before Baron Philippe de Rothschild startled the wine world by 
announcing the seminal joint venture with Robert Mondavi of California that was to become Opus One.
And he reeled off more reasons to be cheerful as head of the world's most disparate upmarket wine company. ("I 
have cut out all wines that sell for less than $15 a bottle," he told me firmly.) Cloudy Bay needs no introduction, but 
he is particularly proud of their 1,000 hectares of Argentine high-altitude vines, where single-vineyard bottlings are 
being developed. Then there was the impressive number of visitors to Domaines Chandon at Yountville in Napa 
Valley and Yarra Valley outside Melbourne: 250,000 and 220,000 a year respectively, both operations successfully 
playing the food and fizz card.
The combination of wine and carbon dioxide is crucial to the wine fortunes of LVMH - not just with Moet & Chandon 
and all its champagne brands (Krug, Veuve Clicquot, Ruinart et al) butaround the world too. They are betting on the 
fact that the world's wine drinkers will wantbubbles wherever they are - even in red wine-obsessed China. The fizz 
from their new winery in Ningxia, launching this September, will be heavily marketed exclusively to the Chinese, 
Moet Hennessy's greatest revenue earners. The wines made sparkling in the Yarra Valley are available only in 
Moet Hennessy's Asia-Pacific markets.
All six Domaines Chandon produce wines in the image of champagne, transforming locally grown Chardonnay and 
Pinot grapes (plus a bit of Riesling Italico in Brazil) into fizz using the same intricate process as in the Champagne 
region - except for the Indian operation launched last year which makes Chenin Blanc and Riesling Italico fizzy in 
tank rather than in individual bottles. Although destined for very different markets, all six Domaines Chandon will 
have the same label - presumably involving Prats in many man-meeting hours. Brits will be the first to be exposed 
to the new livery when an Argentine Chandon is launched in the UK next month. And there is a British element to 
the story of a forthcoming addition to the LVMH portfolio, a New Zealand Pinot Noir based on a vineyard in Central 
Otago recently leased together with leading producer Felton Road. When he heard that Prats was to leave his 
family's wine estate, Stephen Browett, the owner of London fine wine traders Farr Vintners, invited him for lunch 
and served him Felton Road, Block 3 Pinot Noir 2002 and a 2002 Domaine Dujac Premier Cru Chambolle-Musigny. 
The Kiwi Pinot so impressed Prats that he made sure he visited Central Otago on his next tour of duty in 
Marlborough, where the iconic Sauvignon Blanc Cloudy Bay is made.
Prats is also spending considerable energy upgrading the Newton vineyards on the western hills of the Napa Valley 
to maximise their potential. It would be strange if there were not further acquisitions. "We should be in Italy," he told 
me, and only this week LVMH announced their first foray in Burgundy with their acquisition of the grand cru Clos 
des Lambrays.
But I had the impression that the new red-wine venture in Yunnan, whose ambitious produce may not be launched 
before 2016, had particularly captured Prats' imagination. I will be writing about this beautiful and virtually 
unexplored corner of the wine world in much more detail in the coming months.
Tasting notes on Purple Pages of JancisRobinson.com Stockists from winesearcher.com
The chandon fizz family
With location and year of establishment. India and China are in the pipeline.
- Argentina, Mendoza, 1959 The oldest Moet Hennessy wine outpost, in Agrelo, makes a zesty, fruity blend of Pinot 
Noir and Chardonnay.
A Sparkling Success Food and Drink - Wine
- Brazil,Serra Gaucha, 1973 40 per cent Riesling Italico with the usual Chardonnay and Pinot Noir seems no 
detriment to delicacy. Featherlight and fun.
- California, Napa Valley, 1973 All three champagne grapes make a slightly richer wine than its stablemates. The 
restaurant is an important component in the Yountville operation.
- Australia, Yarra Valley, 1986 A blend of Victorian and South Australian cool vineyard fruit. 60 per cent 
Chardonnay, 40 per cent Pinot Noir with more than 20 per cent reserve wines that are up to three years old. Very 
sophisticated, dry wine.
Load-Date: April 20, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 23, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 23, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Ryanair's new Website goes off the radar; Ryanair Glitch
Business World (Digest)
April 18, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more 
customer-friendly Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
Body
Analysts say that problems with Ryanair's much trumpeted revamp and launch of its new, more customer-friendly 
Website has pushed it out of the Top 100 on Google Flight.
In fact, Ryanair has all but vanished from country destination flight searches on Google.
According to data from web search analytics firm Intelligent Positioning, Ryanair is no longer in the top 100 results 
on millions of searches made each month for flights to European destinations where Ryanair was the first airline to 
appear, such as Romania and Belgium.
The Ryanair website now allows users to book using as few as five clicks - a major departure from the old site 
where customers had to negotiate security checks and opt out of buying extras before booking a flight. But the 
airline appears to have omitted some basic precautions in the relaunch. Sam Silverwood-Cope, director of 
Intelligent Positioning, told the UK's Guardian newspaper that: "They've ignored the legacy of the old Ryanair.com. 
It's quite startling. They are doing it just before their busiest time of the year." A change in web addresses without 
proper redirects means many results found by Google now simply return error pages, he added. "Unless redirects 
get put in pretty soon, the position is going to get worse and worse." Ryanair said it was confident that it was a 
temporary blip and the brand would sustain bookings. A spokesman said: "As part of our evolving digital plans, we 
will have more helpful content for customers on the website and this will sustain first-page rankings on key search 
terms going forward, the Guardian reported. "Various Ryanair.com internal and external linked pages are migrating 
to the new site. Until the site settles down there will be a temporary drop in organic search positions on certain key 
search terms." He said the update had been well received by customers. "We are very pleased with the level of 
bookings since the new site went live. We anticipate that it will take a week or so for things to bed down properly."
Ryanair 's new Website goes off the radar Ryanair Glitch
Load-Date: April 23, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation
lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV
programme maker but said it will appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme. The TV programme won a prize for 
investigative journalism in 2013. After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken 
under the microscope, Ryanair filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The 
investigative report claimed that Ryanair pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report 
alleged that they do so under intense pressure from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less 
fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case 
outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the 
fundamental right to freedom of speech and reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently 
and to raise safety concerns without fear of repercussions. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We 
have instructed our lawyers to immediately appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast 
these false claims which have already been dismissed by the relevant authorities. He pointed out a recent joint 
statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the 
safest airlines in Europe.
Load-Date: April 17, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 22, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 22, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 22, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
April 17, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but 
said it will appeal.
Body
Ryanair today lost a landmark defamation lawsuit it had filed against a Dutch TV programme maker but said it will 
appeal.
The court held that Dutch TV channel KRO provided sufficient evidence to support its claims about Ryanair's 
company culture and fuel policy, as made during a two-episode programme.
The TV programme won a prize for investigative journalism in 2013.
After two broadcasts from 2012 in which the fuel and personnel policies were taken under the microscope, Ryanair 
filed a substantive proceedings case against the programme makers. The investigative report claimed that Ryanair 
pilots regularly fly with a minimal amount of fuel on board. The report alleged that they do so under intense pressure 
from the Irish airline's management because an aircraft with less fuel on board is lighter and therefore consumes 
less fuel, thus saving the airline money. Reacting to the case outcome, pilots' group, the European Cockpit 
Association (ECA) said it is pleased with the decision "supporting the fundamental right to freedom of speech and 
reaffirming pilots' authority to take operational decisions independently and to raise safety concerns without fear of 
repercussions". Ryanair's Robin Kiely said the airline will appeal. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately 
appeal this bizarre decision. It is unacceptable that KRO can broadcast these false claims which have already been 
dismissed by the relevant authorities." He pointed out a recent joint statement of the Irish and Spanish aviation 
authorities, which confirmed that Ryanair's safety is "on a par with the safest airlines in Europe".
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
Ryanair lose case against Dutch TV Ryanair Case
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 17, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 17, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds; ECB to buy
Business World (Digest)
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Highlight: Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the 
coming months if the European Central Bank
Body
Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming 
months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation.
The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive 
economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares 
since June.
Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, 
bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meagre profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks 
and French car maker Peugeot .
"The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage 
because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He 
recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a 
sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anaemic margins and 
exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below 
book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight 
are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's 
largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit and Monte Paschi, and Spain's Banco Popular. Others are struggling 
non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia and 
France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics please click: 
http://link.reuters.com/jeq58v Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank 
loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite 
bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better 
ECB looks at buying Corporate bonds ECB to buy
funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP 
Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group 
Atlantia, budget airline Ryanair, Spanish lender Caixabank, and media groups Mediaset and Atresmedia - which 
generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled 
rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the 
dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their 
revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a 
quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to 
a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. 
But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX 
and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair takes to the airwaves to boost friendly image BRAND INDEX STEPHAN SHAKESPEARE
Ryanair takes to the airwaves to boost friendly image; BRAND INDEX 
STEPHAN SHAKESPEARE
City A.M.
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 223 words
Byline: STEPHAN SHAKESPEARE
Body
AS PART of Ryanair's quest to revamp its image, the low-cost airline has launched its first TV campaign in 25 
years. The improvement in consumers' view of the brand since it announced its customer service overhaul, last 
autumn, has cooled, but there has been a modest increase in the number of people who say they would consider 
flying Ryanair. 
Could the TV adverts be the thing that accelerates Ryanair's image makeover? The TV campaign is comprised of a 
troika of 20-second clips meant to make the public aware of three recent changes: a new and improved website, 
allocated seating, and a second free cabin bag. In the tongue-in-cheek spots, a narrator contemplates how 
incongruous the relaxed Ryanair customers in the videos are with what he knows of the "old" Ryanair. After a 10-
point improvement in its overall Index score between last autumn and early February, perception of the brand is 
now flat-lining. However, the number of people who say they would consider flying Ryanair has increased from 13 
per cent to 17 per cent over the same period. And the number of people who say they have seen a Ryanair advert 
recently has more than doubled since the TV campaign launched, going from six per cent a week ago to 15 per 
cent today. This is a good early sign, but it will come down to whether or not customers are convinced by the ads.
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
BUDGET AIRLINES BATTLE FOR GERMANY
BUDGET AIRLINES BATTLE FOR GERMANY
City A.M.
April 16, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 116 words
Body
Meanwhile, on the continent, the battle to become the dominant low-cost airline in Europe's biggest market is 
heating up. Ryanair recently announced an expansion in services in Germany, in a direct challenge to Lufthansa's 
low-cost carrier, Germanwings. Germanwings is also expanding capacity, including a Cologne to Dublin route that 
will compete directly with Ryanair. Not to be outdone, EasyJet is increasing its services in the country, adding to its 
Berlin-based fleet and launching routes to Hamburg.
Currently, around six per cent of German consumers would consider flying Ryanair and EasyJet, while 15 per cent 
would consider Germanwings.
Stephan Shakespeare is the chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to open fifth German base at Cologne Airport
Ryanair to open fifth German base at Cologne Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 15, 2014 Tuesday 4:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 171 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will open its fifth German base at Cologne Airport in October 
2014.
Body
From October 2014, Ryanair will grow at Cologne with: 1 based aircraft; 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, 
Madrid, Riga & Rome Ciampino; 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over $90m at Cologne Airport; over 700,000 
customers p.a.; and 700 "on site" jobs. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany. "German consumers know a great 
deal and that's why they already choose Ryanair for our low fares and industry leading customer service, but they 
can now also book flights on our improved website, enjoy a free small second carry-on bag, "quiet flights", allocated 
seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making Ryanair the ideal choice for 
families and friends, with a new smartphone app, and products tailored to families and business customers coming 
soon."
Load-Date: April 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to open third Polish base at Gdansk Airport
Ryanair to open third Polish base at Gdansk Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 14, 2014 Monday 1:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 215 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will open its third Polish base at Gdansk Airport in October 2014.
Body
From October 2014, Ryanair will significantly grow at Gdansk with: 1 based aircraft; 3 new winter routes to 
Birmingham, Leeds Bradford and Warsaw Modlin (10 in total); growth from 54 to over 94 weekly flights as Ryanair 
invests over $90m at Gdansk Airport; over 700,000 customers; and over 700 "on site" jobs. In Gdansk, Ryanair's 
Deputy Director of Route Development, Niall O'Connor said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we will be 
opening a new base at Gdansk this winter, offering 10 exciting routes, including 3 new winter routes to Birmingham, 
Leeds Bradford and Warsaw Modlin, which will deliver some 700,000 passengers annually and sustain over 700 
"on-site" jobs at Gdansk Airport, as Ryanair invests over $90m at Gdansk. "Polish consumers and visitors already 
choose Ryanair for the lowest fares, great route choice and our industry leading customer service. Now they can 
also book their flights on our much improved website and enjoy a free small second carry-on bag, "quiet flights", 
allocated seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making Ryanair the ideal choice 
for families and friends, with a new smartphone app, and family and business products coming soon, as Ryanair 
continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: April 20, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 15, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 17, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 15, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Extra Cork flights for Munster match Munster Match
Extra Cork flights for Munster match; Munster Match
Business World (Digest)
April 14, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the 
Heineken Cup semi-final.
Body
Cork Airport is operating extra flights to Marseille for rugby fans travelling to support Munster in the Heineken Cup 
semi-final at the end of the month.
Munster are set to play Toulouse in the semi-final at Marseille's Stade Velodrome on Saturday, 26th April.
Chartered flights and travel packages will be operated by Dawson Travel, Lee Travel and Killester Travel direct 
from Cork Airport for the match weekend, while Ryanair are operating a schedule flight between Cork and Marseille.
Speaking about the match weekend, Cork Airport Managing Director Niall MacCarthy said: "Cork Airport is 
committed to offering further choice and value for our Munster based customers. Flying direct from Cork Airport has 
never been easier and Munster Fans can avail of competitive online car parking prices on www.corkairport.com 
when they book in advance." Cork Airport is Ireland's busiest airport after Dublin, with over 2.3 million passengers 
travelling through every year.
Load-Date: April 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to open new Polish base at Warsaw Modlin Airport in winter 2014
Ryanair to open new Polish base at Warsaw Modlin Airport in winter 2014
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 14, 2014 Monday 12:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 154 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will open a new Polish base in winter 2014 at Warsaw Modlin 
Airport.
Body
From October 2014, Ryanair will significantly grow at Warsaw Modlin with: 1 based aircraft; 4 new winter routes to 
Gdansk, Madrid, Shannon and Wroclaw (20 in total); grow from 174 to over 265 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests 
over $90m at Warsaw Modlin Airport; over 1.9m customers; and over 1,900 "on site" jobs. Ryanair's Chief 
Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Polish consumers and visitors already choose Ryanair for the lowest fares, 
great route choice and our industry leading customer service. "Now they can also book their flights on our much 
improved website and enjoy a free small second carry-on bag, "quiet flights", allocated seats and use their personal 
electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families and friends, with a new 
smartphone app, and family and business products coming soon, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more 
than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: April 20, 2014
End of Document
For Trinity College Dublin, what's in a name?
For Trinity College Dublin, what's in a name?
Sunday Business Post
April 13, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: SMALL BUSINESS
Length: 916 words
Body
Trinity College Dublin, Ireland's oldest university, is rebranding itself. Under its identity initiative, TCD's name will be 
changed to Trinity College, the University of Dublin, and its logo will be modified to give it a more modern look. It's 
debatable whether the proposed changes are necessary. The price tag of EUR 100,000, however, could have been 
allocated to teaching and research instead.
TCD is more than 400 years old, but recently it was suddenly felt that its current name causes ''fragmentation and 
confusion. We are told that when academics travel abroad -- especially to the US and Asia -- they feel that the word 
college' leads foreigners to believe that TCD might not be a university. Also, overseas students might be confused 
when they search for a university in Ireland that they could attend. But those claims are questionable, to say the 
least.
There are many other institutions whose name does not contain the word university', but that are perfectly 
recognisable worldwide, such as MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), King's College London, and Caltech, 
to name a few. The reason why people know about them is not because they are leaders in branding themselves, 
but because they excel in what they are supposed to be doing: research and teaching.
**Name recognition**
Another problem is that, with the new initiative, TCD will seemingly have two names, keeping the current one for 
academic publishing and the new one for everything else. But it's unclear how this will improve name recognition 
overseas. Foreign students and academics browsing the web to obtain information on the university may well be 
confused and wonder if the TCD they saw in a journal publication is the same institution as the TCUD (or is it 
TCTUD?) they saw online.
Moreover, the university will change its logo and colours, supposedly to avoid a clash with the brands of Ryanair 
and Ikea. But since when do those firms compete for students with TCD? It's difficult to figure out how a Chinese 
student would confuse Ryanair with TCD and get to the airport instead of the university for the year's first class.
For Trinity College Dublin, what's in a name?
Furthermore, there will only be two colours -- blue and white -- on the university logo, instead of the current five 
colours. This, according to the professionals in charge of the redesign, is because fewer colours is more 
''contemporary and vibrant than more colours.
The consultants also observed that blue and gold are associated with ''value or convenience, and that blue and 
yellow ''lacks a sense of quality and sophistication, while a blue background is modern and crisp'. One problem 
here is that this makes no sense at all. Are those claims based on advanced training in colour analytics? Or a PhD 
in art history? Or just chats in a pub?
This is not to say that branding a university is not important, or that marketing campaigns to attract foreign students 
and talented staff from overseas should be neglected, especially in a constrained budgetary environment as 
currently faced by the Irish education sector.
But the difficulty with the proposed changes is their cost. The bill to rebrand the university has been reported to be 
about EUR 100,000. The firm Behaviour and Attitudes was paid EUR 22,150 to conduct market research; and 
Huguenot, a company which provides identity and design services, will charge EUR 80,000 for its expertise.
**Bloated administration**
At a global level, universities have suffered for quite a few years now from bloated administrations. Benjamin 
Ginsberg has called the phenomenon ''the rise of the all-administrative university in his recent book, The Fall Of 
The Faculty, which documents how academic staff have gradually seen their autonomy eroded by managers and 
administrators whose numbers and power have risen dramatically.
For example, in the US, between 1975 and 2005, the number of academics increased by 51 per cent, but the 
number of administrative staff rose by 181 per cent. Irish universities' core staff is composed of 45 per cent of 
academics and 55 per cent of non-academics.
The result is large and inefficient academic bureaucracies that absorb scarce resources that could be directed to 
teaching and research, the core mission of universities. True, such bureaucracies may have been successful at 
some tasks, such as raising funds from former students and philanthropists, and at attracting more international 
students. However, the positive impact is reduced by the increasingly large amounts of funds absorbed by 
bureaucracy itself.
Moreover, even the simplest tasks become more complicated due to the large number of phone calls and emails 
and waiting periods needed to accomplish them. There's a joke circulating in some universities that it takes two or 
three days' notice to order a few sandwiches for a departmental event. The problem is that the joke often 
materialises.
How can that situation be improved? One way would be to include, in global university rankings, criteria that provide 
incentives to reduce administrative fat. If an institution spends too much on overhead and not enough on teaching 
and research, it would lose points, and vice-versa.
It's not clear how this would affect the current rankings, because many suffer from the same ailment. But those that 
innovate and become more efficient would surely rise rapidly towards the top, thus attracting more students, better 
academics, and more donations. It sounds like a winning strategy.
*Julien Mercille lectures in economic and political geography at UCD*
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
Smiles all round as the owners of Club Travel receive dividend of over EUR 600,000
Smiles all round as the owners of Club Travel receive dividend of over EUR 
600,000
Sunday Business Post
April 13, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 242 words
Body
The owners of Irish travel operator and agent Club Travel received a dividend of more than EUR 600,000 from the 
business last year, although the firm recorded a drop in profits.
Club Travel, one of the largest travel firms in the state, posted a pre-tax profit of EUR 3.3 million for the year ended 
October 31, 2013, a drop from EUR 4.4 million the previous year.
The company reported turnover of EUR 80 million, down from EUR 86 million the previous year. Club Travel also 
had a drop in the cost of sales during 2013, as its costs fell from EUR 77 million to EUR 72 million.
A co-founder of Ryanair, Liam Lonergan set up Club Travel 41 years ago and the Dublin-based firm has built up a 
substantial cash pile over the years. The firm's balance sheet showed that at October 31, 2013 the company had 
equity shareholders' funds of EUR 37.1 million, up from EUR 34.9 million the previous year. The company 
employed 136 people in 2013 and paid out EUR 3.9 million in wages.
In 2010 Club Travel purchased the Budget Travel brand, which has proved to be a big contributor to the firm's 
increase in revenues over the past few years.
Club Travel had acted as the Irish government's official travel agent for 13 years, before losing the contract to 
international travel giant Carlson Wagonlit Travel in 2012.
However, Club Travel is also set for an additional boost next year as it was named the Irish travel partner for the 
Rugby World Cup by the sport's organising body.
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
Smiles all round as the owners of Club Travel receive dividend of over EUR 600,000
End of Document
Maximum disruption plan by airport unions despite legal restrictions
Maximum disruption plan by airport unions despite legal restrictions
Sunday Business Post
April 13, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 336 words
Body
Airport trade union activists are threatening to launch a series of protests that stay within the law but cause 
maximum disruption.
The plan is designed to circumvent legal restrictions that the trade unions face around launching any new industrial 
action over the intractable Euro 700 million pension dispute.
Siptu's key pension committees at Aer Lingus and the Dublin Airport Authority (DAA) are understood to have 
discussed the action, which could force passengers to endure disruption.
The High Court granted an injunction to DAA and Ryanair that forced Siptu to drop planned industrial action over St 
Patrick's weekend and has effectively barred the union from mounting strike action on the pension issue.
''We cannot take any from of industrial action and so we have to think of other ways of creating leverage around this 
issue, said a source close to the pension committee.
''A new phase of innovative legitimate protest is now being considered. Workers will still do their job, but under the 
strictest interpretation of their terms and conditions. There will be no flexibility shown when it comes to the standard 
operating procedures that exist for nearly every job in the airport, said the source.
''For example, security staff may deem it necessary under standard operating procedures to hand search everyone, 
regardless of the impact on the length of the queue. That would mean searching everyone passing through the 
barrier, be they airline staff, passengers or the chief executive himself, said the source.
Other areas that could face such strict interpretations of standard operating procedures include the airport fire 
station, taxi management personnel and loaders dealing with baggage.
Maximum disruption plan by airport unions despite legal restrictions
A solution to the problems around the pension fund shared by Aer Lingus, DAA and Shannon airport workers 
appears as far away as ever after trade union negotiators handed back in protest submissions made by the 
companies to the expert panel appointed by the government to carry out ''an urgent investigation of the matter.
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
Reading the economic tea leaves
Reading the economic tea leaves
Sunday Business Post
April 13, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1055 words
Body
So have we really reaching the end of the age of austerity? Is a revival of economic growth going to do the further 
adjustments needed in our exchequer finances, without the need for more tax hikes and spending cuts?
A range of very different growth forecasts for the economy have been published over the past couple of weeks. The 
IMF, in its annual world outlook, predicts that GDP here will grow by a modest 1.7 per cent in 2014. Closer to home 
Ibec, the employers' body, upped its 2014 GDP growth forecast to 2.9 per cent. If the IMF is right, then we won't 
really ''feel a recovery in the economy this year. If Ibec is on the money, we will.
The Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI) weighed in to the debate last Thursday. It believes GDP will 
grow by 2.6 per cent this year and that looking to 2015, no further tax increases or spending cuts beyond the 
planned water charge will be needed in the October budget.
The government, in its revised forecasts to be published this week, will -- it is understood -- up its budget estimate 
of 2 per cent growth this year, just fractionally to 2.1 per cent. Sources say that the document, officially called the 
stability programme update, will recommit to meeting the target of reducing borrowing below 3 per cent next year.
This will still probably require an ''adjustment of EUR 2 billion -- the question is whether this adjustment will happen 
automatically as higher growth lifts taxes and cuts spending in areas like unemployment support, or will require 
actual new measures by the government.
The stability update will not take a position on this crunch question -- no point in creating a political row now, when 
no one knows how the budget sums will look come the autumn. By then, we will know whether the recovery has 
gained the momentum which Ibec and the ESRI expect, or whether we remain stuck in a cycle of low growth and 
low inflation which would make the budget sums much more difficult.
The Irish economic forecasts are a bit of an alphabet soup of acronyms and confusion, affected by a myriad of 
once-off factors ranging from the ending of pharmaceutical patent protection of key drugs to profit repatriation 
trends to the timing of aircraft purchases by Ryanair.
Reading the economic tea leaves
Standing back, the key issue now is whether the recovery is getting a bit of momentum. Ibec and the ESRI believe it 
has, arguing that a pick-up in investment and consumer spending will offset limited export growth to push the 
economy forward. More pessimistic forecasts worry about the impact of a poor EU growth outlook on exports and 
the ability of consumers to spend more.
The consumer feel good factor is the key ''missing link at the moment. Ibec puts its money on a consumer recovery, 
with a rise in spending expected of almost 2 per cent.
We had thought the first quarter exchequer returns pointed to a rise in Vat of a scale which suggested consumer 
spending might, indeed, be starting to rise. Now we are told that while the overall tax figures were right, too much 
money was allocated to Vat. We await revised figures, but it seems we still await -- too -- clear signs of a revival in 
consumer spending.
Rising employment should help here. But as well as the well advertised problem of high debts held by many 
households, the disposable income squeeze is holding things back too. Consumer confidence is rising, but that only 
translates to more spending if people have sufficient disposable income after they pay their bills. And many don't.
It may seem strange that an economy can be creating some 1,000 additional jobs a week and still have flat 
consumer spending. But we live in strange times. If Ibec and the ESRI are to be proved correct, then the Irish 
consumer is going to have to start turning up and spending more cash. So far there are signs of higher spending on 
new cars, but limited evidence elsewhere.
The ESRI believes that this momentum of recovery is already under way, and has been hidden by some of the 
peculiarities of Irish economic data. A better measure is given, it argues, by Gross National Product (GNP), which 
factors out the impact of profit repatriations from multinationals. It believes GNP will grow by 3.5 per cent this year 
and 3.7 per cent next year. If that is the real measure of the economy, then we are, indeed, sitting on the brink of a 
recovery that will be felt across the economy.
This would make the government's task of framing the budget much easier. Already lower unemployment is cutting 
the welfare bill. At budget time, the government was forecasting an unemployment rate of 11.8 per cent on average 
in 2015. In the stability programme update it is understood this will be cut to 10.5 per cent. The ESRI forecasts are 
for unemployment to average 10.1 per cent next year. Growth also brings more taxes and would be likely to lead to 
some pick up in inflation.
Even then, it is hard to see the government having enough cash to actually cut the tax take next year in any 
meaningful way. Growth, on an optimistic scenario, may take care of much of the EUR 2 billion adjustment needed 
next year, but there will not be more to spare to actually cut taxes.
Any cuts in taxes in one area will have to be made by new taxes and charges elsewhere or lower spending. After 
all, we are still, as a country with high borrowing and debt, under observation from the EU Commission, which will 
put heavy pressure on for the job of correcting the public finances to be finished, and no risks to be taken.
If the more optimistic growth forecasts are right, then the age of austerity may, indeed, be coming to an end. But 
there will be no return to the era of budget giveaways for many years to come.
.....
**The forecasts**
**Pessimistic**
IMF -- GDP growth of 1.7 per cent in 2014. Worried about euro-wide low growth and deflation
**Middle of the road**
Reading the economic tea leaves
The **government**and the **Central Bank**The government will upgrade its 2014 GDP growth forecast to 2.1 per 
cent and the Central Bank expects 2 per cent growth. Both expect weaker export growth to be somewhat offset by 
rising consumer and investment spending
**Optimistic**
The **ESRI**predicts 2.6 per cent GDP growth and 3.5 per cent GNP growth this year and **Ibec**expects 2.9 per 
cent GDP growth. Both believe that there is now real momentum in the domestic economy and that this will 
accelerate and offset weaker export growth
Load-Date: April 16, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz Ryanair Ads
Ryanair launch 1st pan-European ad blitz; Ryanair Ads
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and 
Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today launched its first pan-European brand advertising campaign in the UK, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
The campaign is across TV, digital, social, press and outdoor media and will run for four weeks.
The advertising blitz is part of Ryanair's new push to improve its image with customers that saw a major revamp of 
its online presence.
The adverts, which were produced by UK agency Dare, underpin Ryanair's new 'Low Fares. Made Simple' tagline, 
while the TV campaign, which was shot at London Stansted Airport, will be broadcast at peak times, featuring the 
classic Motown track, "Destination Anywhere" by the Marvelettes. Chief Creative Officer at Dare, Sean Thompson 
said: "For Dare to work with Ryanair on their first ever pan-European advertising, has been a real privilege 
especially as the brand is at such an important time in its evolution. Creatively it was important that we tackle 
people's negative perceptions of Ryanair head-on but do it with a charm and wit that people would expect of the 
brand."
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open new base in Cologne Ryanair Base
Ryanair open new base in Cologne; Ryanair Base
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this 
year with one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in 
total).
Body
Ryanair today announced it would open its 5th German base (68th in total) at Cologne in October of this year with 
one based aircraft and 5 new routes to Dublin, London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino (8 in total).
The Irish airline said the new base will deliver over 700,000 customers p.a. and sustain some 700 "on-site" jobs, 
with 86 weekly flights, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne Airport.
In Cologne today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to announce that we 
will be opening a new base at Cologne this winter, offering 8 exciting routes, including 5 new routes to Dublin, 
London Stansted, Madrid, Riga and Rome Ciampino, which will deliver over 700,000 passengers annually and 
sustain 700* "on-site" jobs at Cologne Airport, as Ryanair invests over dollar 90m at Cologne. The state of North 
Rhein Westfalia is an important part of the European economy and we want to support bringing business travellers 
to do business, as well as tourists who want to visit a wonderful part of Germany."
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 9, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 10, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 9, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand; European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 10, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 10, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 9, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 11, 2014
End of Document
European markets up on new demand European shares
European markets up on new demand; European shares
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Highlight: European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-
year highs after losing ground this week
Body
European shares edged higher today, buoyed by appetite for travel firms but still pegged below multi-year highs 
after losing ground this week.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 was up 0.2 percent at 1,335.75 points, retracing all of Tuesday's fall. It had 
seen two days of falls following nine straight positive days - its longest winning streak since October.
The index is down 1.4 percent so far this week, and is set to snap a three-week rally which saw it post its highest 
close since May 2008 on Friday.
Appetite for stocks was boosted by a recovery on Wall Street overnight, although rising gold and oil prices 
demonstrated the market's vulnerability to continued tensions in Ukraine, where the United States accused Russian 
agents on Tuesday of stirring separatist unrest. Alcoa kicked off U.S. earnings season on Tuesday, reporting 
earnings ahead of expectations as revenues missed forecasts. "There are a number of reasons to be cautious right 
now, whether that be corporate earnings season, which people are fairly pessimistic about, or the ongoing crisis in 
Ukraine that has flared up again this week," Craig Erlam, market analyst at Alpari, said. The travel and leisure 
sector gained 0.4 percent, a top riser, led higher by an upgrade to Ryanair by Barclays, with investors also focused 
on Lufthansa's traffic numbers later in the morning. ( C ) Reuters
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
UK Market Rises, Ryanair Gains On Upgrade
UK Market Rises, Ryanair Gains On Upgrade
RTT News (United States)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 358 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market is in positive territory on Wednesday, as sentiment was influenced by firm cues from 
Wall Street in the previous session. Further, investors eagerly await the minutes of the Federal Reserve's March 
18-19 monetary policy meeting, which is scheduled to be released after the European markets close.
In economic news, Germany's exports declined more than expected in February, but imports continued to rise for 
the second consecutive month, Destatis said. Exports fell 1.3 percent in February from January, which was the 
second fall in three months. Exports were forecast to fall 0.5 percent after expanding 2.2 percent in January.
Meanwhile, the U.K. visible trade deficit narrowed in February, while the surplus on services declined from the prior 
month, data from Office for National Statistics showed.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is adding 0.40 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.48 percent.
The FTSE 100 index is currently up 0.71 percent.
Barratt Developments is rising 3.3 percent and Standard Chartered is advancing 2.8 percent.
UBS raised Kingfisher to ''Buy'' from ''Neutral.'' The stock is gaining 2 percent.
Barclays raised Ryanair to ''Overweight'' from ''Equalweight.'' The stock is rising 3.5 percent.
Major markets in the region are mostly higher.
The Asian stocks rose broadly, with a tentative rebound on Wall Street overnight and continued talk of stimulus in 
China underpinning sentiment.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks broke a three-day losing 
streak, although buying interest remained somewhat subdued amid rising geopolitical tensions in eastern Ukraine. 
The Dow inched up 0.1 percent, the S&P 500 added 0.4 percent and the tech-heavy Nasdaq gained 0.8 percent.
Crude for May delivery is falling $0.19 to $102.37 per barrel, ahead of the weekly petroleum status report from the 
Energy Information Administration, while gold is rising $0.9 to $1310.0 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
UK Market Rises, Ryanair Gains On Upgrade
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: April 9, 2014
End of Document
European Markets Break Two-Day Decline, WireCard Jumps
European Markets Break Two-Day Decline, WireCard Jumps
RTT News (United States)
April 9, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 501 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are in positive territory on Wednesday, after two consecutive sessions of 
declines. Sentiment was influenced by firm cues from Wall Street in the previous session. Further, investors eagerly 
await the minutes of the Federal Reserve's March 18-19 monetary policy meeting, which is scheduled to be 
released after the European markets close.
In economic news, Germany's exports declined more than expected in February, but imports continued to rise for 
the second consecutive month, Destatis said. Exports fell 1.3 percent in February from January, which was the 
second fall in three months. Exports were forecast to fall 0.5 percent after expanding 2.2 percent in January.
Meanwhile, the U.K. visible trade deficit narrowed in February, while the surplus on services declined from the prior 
month, data from Office for National Statistics showed.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is adding 0.35 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.39 percent.
The German DAX is gaining 0.30 percent and the French CAC 40 is adding 0.49 percent. The UK's FTSE 100 is 
jumping 0.78 percent while Switzerland's SMI is marginally lower.
In Frankfurt, Volkswagen is gaining 2.7 percent. Bernstein raised the stock to ''Outperform'' from ''Market-perform.''
Daimler and BMW are trading higher. Both automakers reported growth in unit sales for the first quarter.
ThyssenKrupp and Beiersdorf are gaining 1.6 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively.
Commerzbank is gaining 1.3 percent and Deutsche Bank is adding 0.7 percent.
WireCard is gaining 6.2 percent. The company reported increased profit for the year.
In Paris, Kering is advancing 3.1 percent and Vallourec is adding 2.5 percent.
Renault and Michelin are up 2.1 percent and 1.8 percent, respectively.
In London, Barratt Developments is rising 3.3 percent and Standard Chartered is advancing 2.8 percent.
UBS raised Kingfisher to ''Buy'' from ''Neutral.'' The stock is gaining 2 percent.
European Markets Break Two-Day Decline, WireCard Jumps
Barclays raised Ryanair to ''Overweight'' from ''Equalweight.'' The stock is rising 3.5 percent.
Indesit is climbing 4.5 percent in Milan on a report that Whirlpool Corp. is weighing an offer for the company.
The Asian stocks rose broadly, with a tentative rebound on Wall Street overnight and continued talk of stimulus in 
China underpinning sentiment.
In the U.S., futures point to a mixed open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks broke a three-day losing 
streak, although buying interest remained somewhat subdued amid rising geopolitical tensions in eastern Ukraine. 
The Dow inched up 0.1 percent, the S&P 500 added 0.4 percent and the tech-heavy Nasdaq gained 0.8 percent.
Crude for May delivery is falling $0.03 to $102.53 per barrel, ahead of the weekly petroleum status report from the 
Energy Information Administration, while gold is rising $0.3 to $1309.4 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: April 9, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair opens new Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park
Ryanair opens new Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 8, 2014 Tuesday 7:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 303 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has opened its new 100,000sqft Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park, Swords. 
The airline plans to create 200 new jobs for technology, software development and digital marketing specialists.
Body
Ryanair confirmed that in the coming year (to March 2015) its traffic will grow from 81.5m to over 84m passengers, 
as it opens new bases in Lisbon, Athens, Brussels, Rome and significantly expands its route network from Dublin 
and London Stansted airports. In addition to creating 500 new jobs for pilots, engineers and cabin crew in 2014, 
Ryanair will now create a further 200 jobs in its new Dublin offices, to develop its improved Ryanair.com digital 
platform as well as its new mobile app at end June. Ryanair's Chairman David Bonderman said: "I want to 
personally welcome An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan to Ryanair's new Dublin 
office campus. 
These are exciting times as we return to strong traffic growth to/from Ireland as a direct result of the Irish 
Government's foresighted decision to scrap the travel tax from 1 April. "The repeal of this tax has directly led 
Ryanair to open 21 new routes to Ireland in 2014, as well as increasing frequencies on over 30 other routes, in an 
expansion that will add more than 1.1m passengers at Dublin, Shannon and Knock airports, and will create over 
1,000 new jobs in Irish tourism in 2014. "Ryanair sees the decision to scrap the travel tax as a welcome policy 
development by Mr Kenny's government, which will enable Ireland's airline/tourism industry to grow strongly, and it 
has certainly encouraged Ryanair to invest in, and help create, thousands of new jobs here in Ireland in 2014. "I am 
excited by Ryanair's growth prospects, as we take delivery of another 175 aircraft from our partners Boeing. We 
look forward to welcoming these 200 new people to Ryanair's new Dublin office campus, where they will join a team 
which continues to show that Ireland leads the world airline industry and will continue to do so for years to come."
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair March passenger traffic decreases
Ryanair March passenger traffic decreases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 8, 2014 Tuesday 7:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 117 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has reported that passenger traffic for the month of March 2014 was 5.2 million 
passengers, a decrease of 4%, compared to 5.4 million passengers for March 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of March 2014 was 80%, an increase of one percentage point, compared to 79% for 
March 2013. Robin Kiely, head of communications at Ryanair, said: "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m 
customers in March as previously guided, due to the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). 
Ryanair's load factor increased by 1% as customers continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and 
recent improvements in customer service including allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag. 
"Forward bookings for the summer months continue to grow strongly as Ryanair continues to give our customers 
the lowest fares and a much improved customer experience."
Load-Date: April 14, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus 's secret threat to outsource at Dublin Airport
Aer Lingus's secret threat to outsource at Dublin Airport
Sunday Business Post
April 6, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 602 words
Body
Aer Lingus is threatening to outsource ground-handling operations at Dublin Airport.
The threat is contained in secret briefing documents prepared by senior airline managers for chief executive 
Christoph Mueller ahead of staff meetings he hosted in recent weeks.
The meetings were held in a fraught industrial relations climate heightened by the pension crisis, a series of 
restructuring plans and issues about key staff refusing promotions that would see them take a cut in pay.
''Remind them of the continued threat from Ryanair, ie not only are they cheap they are now becoming CHEERFUL 
too, said a briefing note prepared for Mueller by the company's Dublin Airport manager, Mike Esam.
Serious tensions about the implementation of a number of restructuring plans, aimed at the airline's 1,500 ground 
operations staff, threaten to derail the airline's massive ''Greenfield cost-cutting plan and have made the 
implementation of a follow-on EUR 30 million cost reduction plan more difficult.
Ramp staff at Dublin Airport rejected payments offered by the company worth a total of EUR 268,000 as a result of 
work practice changes -- codenamed Blueprint -- as ''insufficient.
''They made a counter offer. We subsequently analysed this at a cost of EUR 700,000 per annum, which is clearly 
unsustainable, said an email from ramp services manager Robert Powell.
In addition, a shop steward took ''unilateral action and pressed staff to cease cooperation with trials of the airline's 
new Inform rostering system.
''Our next step will be to provide a detailed summary of our offers, compared to their proposal, and handling rates 
from [third party ground handling specialists] Servisair and Menzies, wrote Powell.
Aer Lingus 's secret threat to outsource at Dublin Airport
Staff would be asked to ''focus their minds as they had two clear choices: ''Work with us or ''reject the offer. . . 
effectively making the Greenfield Agreement null and void and re-opening the prospect of outsourcing.
Although this would move the company towards ''a wider IR issue, the ''unilateral action of the Shop Stewards is 
driving us inevitably towards this ultimatum, said Powell.
''Our problem is not with the Siptu official; our problem is with a few maverick reps who are getting greedy with the 
Blueprint offer, said the briefing note. ''Unfortunately their officials seem unable to restrain them, it said.
The note claimed that the shop stewards were only representing better-paid staff who did not opt for the airline's 
controversial ''leave-and-return scheme, which saw 620 staff ''migrators opt for redundancy before being hired back 
on lesser paid contracts under the Greenfield agreement.
The mix of better-paid legacy graded staff -- or ''non migrators - and staff on new ''Team Member contracts has 
created divisions and led to ''the emergence of a two-tier culture, said a separate briefing document.
A plan to fill all promotional positions using the new Team Member structure, while desirable, in practice ''is 
producing outcomes which are not in the company's best interest and which appear to be outweighing the financial 
benefits achieved, said the document. In most cases Aer Lingus staff on legacy contracts who accept a promotion 
would be hit by a reduction in earnings with some sacrificing close to EUR 9,000 per annum, it showed.
This has meant that staff on legacy contracts are not applying for or accepting promotions and are ''potentially 
disaffected.
This can lead to a ''lack of stable team leadership and ''promoting staff who may not be the best person for the role, 
but because they fit into a Team Member structure, said the document.
Aer Lingus could not be reached for comment.
Load-Date: April 6, 2014
End of Document
Gulf airline set to swoop on Alitalia TRAVEL & LEISURE
Gulf airline set to swoop on Alitalia; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
April 5, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 13
Length: 405 words
Byline: Rachel Sanderson in Milan
Body
Etihad is expected to make an offer to buy almost half of Italian airline Alitalia as soon as this weekend, 
underscoring the Gulf carrier's mounting presence in Europe.
The long-awaited move would come after weeks of talks and amid reports Etihad is also looking to raise its stake in 
German number two airline Air Berlin to 49.9 per cent, the maximum stake it can take under European airline rules.
Gaetano Micchiche, head of investment banking at Intesa Sanpaolo, Alitalia's largest shareholder with a 20 per cent 
stake, said on Thursday that he expected an offer from Etihad as soon as yesterday evening.
That offer was expected to be in the region of EUR300m for as much as 49 per cent of Italy's national carrier, said 
people familiar with the discussions.
It is expected to enter Alitalia's shareholding with a dedicated capital increase and by acquiring minority holdings 
from Intesa Sanpaolo and UniCredit, the airline's third-largest shareholder which owns a 13 per cent stake.
"The due diligence is done. We are waiting for the offer tonight," said a person close to Alitalia.
The Italian airline narrowly avoided its second bankruptcy in five years earlier this year after a EUR300m 
recapitalisation.
Gulf airline set to swoop on Alitalia TRAVEL & LEISURE
A deal is seen as providing Alitalia with much-needed liquidity and a strong industrial partner following the dilution of 
Air France-KLM's shareholding to 7 per cent, after the Franco-Dutch airline refused to participate in the Italian 
airline's latest rescue recapitalisation.
Air France-KLM appears to support the move by Etihad. The Franco-Dutch airline's chief executive, Alexandre de 
Juniac, said in February that a mooted investment from Etihad could strengthen the business case for investing.
Nonetheless, people familiar with the talks say obstacles remain.
Etihad wants to cut Alitalia's 12,000 staff by an unspecified number, in the face of trade union opposition that in the 
past has proved intractable. It is also seeking renegotiations of Alitalia's debts with some Italian banks.
Etihad wants to shake up Italy's fragmented airport infrastructure, which is a longstanding drag on Alitalia's 
profitability and has allowed increased competition from low-cost airlines such as Ryanair, easyJet and Vueling, 
which operate from regional airports to undercut the carrier.
Moves to close or combine Italy's airports have been a political pawn for decades as vested interests insist on 
keeping sites open in their local regions.
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 8, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 8, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 9, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures; EasyJet Shares
Business World (Digest)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic 
figures, although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
Body
Britain's top equity index edged up today, with airline easyJet hitting record highs after robust traffic figures, 
although investors were reluctant to place big bets ahead of key U.S. jobs data later in the day.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was up by 0.4 percent, or 24.55 points, at 6,673.69 points - within touching distance 
of three-week highs.
"If we can sustain a move above 6,680 points, the outlook will look reasonably positive," said Hantec Markets 
analyst Richard Perry.
EasyJet was the best-performing FTSE 100 stock in percentage terms. It rose more than 2 percent, having earlier 
touched record highs, after unveiling a 4.8 percent rise in passenger traffic in March. That compared with a 4 
percent decline reported by rival budget airline Ryanair on Thursday. "EasyJet's one of my favourite stocks. They've 
got very good pricing, they've managed to keep their costs down, and they're increasing their average revenue per 
seat," said Joe Rundle, head of trading at ETX Capital. The U.S. jobs data will take centre stage on Friday, 
although some analysts are likely to remain bullish on the market even in the event of weaker-than-expected data. 
A Reuters poll forecast an acceleration in U.S. jobs growth in March, with non-farm payrolls probably increasing by 
200,000, which would be the largest gain in four months. The European Central Bank's reiteration on Thursday that 
it could take new measures to help the euro zone economy has supported equity markets, while Britain's 
unexpectedly strong economic recovery is also propping up its stock market. "We think the UK economy could 
generate above-trend economic growth for some time," wrote Deutsche Bank's equity strategists, who targeted a 
record level of 7,500 points for the FTSE 100 by the end of 2014. (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 8, 2014
EasyJet shares soar after PAX figures EasyJet Shares
End of Document
EasyJet Passengers, Load Factor Rise In March
EasyJet Passengers, Load Factor Rise In March
RTT News (United States)
April 4, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 302 words
Body
(RTTNews) - UK-based low-cost airline easyJet Plc (ESYJY.PK, EZJ.L) Friday reported growth in passengers and 
load factor for the month of March, despite the movement of Easter into April from March last year.
The number of passengers, which represents the number of earned seats flown, rose 4.8 percent to 5.11 million 
from 4.87 million in the prior year.
Since easyJet is a no-refund airline, earned seats for the company include seats that are flown whether or not the 
passenger turns up. Earned seats also include seats provided for promotional purposes and to staff for business 
travel.
Monthly load factor, which stands for the number of passengers as a proportion of the number of seats available for 
passengers, was 91.5 percent, up one percentage point from last year's 90.5 percent.
In February also, easyJet had reported an improvement in passenger numbers as well as load factor.
For the rolling 12 months ended March, passengers improved 3.5 percent to 61.83 million and load factor was up 
0.1 percentage point at 89.5 percent.
Last month, the airline had narrowed its expectations for first-half pre-tax loss, and improved its forecast for revenue 
per seat growth at constant currency as well as cost per seat growth, excluding fuel.
Among peers, Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) Thursday said its traffic for March 
declined 4 percent to 5.2 million customers from last year's 5.4 million customers. But, monthly load factor improved 
1 percentage point to 80 percent from last year.
At that time, Ryanair's CEO Robin Kiely said the fall in traffic, as previously guided, was due to the movement of 
Easter into April.
EZJ.L closed marginally higher on Thursday at 1,791 pence.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
EasyJet Passengers, Load Factor Rise In March
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair opens third Greek base at Athens Airport
Ryanair opens third Greek base at Athens Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 4, 2014 Friday 9:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 206 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has opened its third Greek base at Athens Airport with two based aircraft and six new 
routes.
Body
In 2014, Ryanair's growth at Athens will deliver: 6 routes to Chania, London, Milan, Paphos, Rhodes & 
Thessaloniki; over 1.2m passengers; and sustain over 1,200 jobs. Ryanair's Head of Sales & Marketing, Peter 
Bellew said: "Our 6 new Athens routes will allow Greek consumers and visitors to escape Aegean/Olympic's high 
fares and instead enjoy Ryanair's lowest fares and industry leading customer service and punctuality. "This is the 
first summer where Ryanair customers can enjoy a free small second carry-on bag, "quiet flights", allocated seats 
and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families 
and friends looking to get away this summer, with a new website, smartphone app, and family and business 
products coming soon. And very importantly, we are delighted to have a website in Greek that will launch at the end 
of April. "Only Ryanair, with its 175 new aircraft order, can deliver the capacity, new markets and low costs 
demanded by Greek consumers and visitors, and looks forward to working with Athens Airport to unlock its vast 
potential currently suppressed by high access air costs, and to help grow tourism, traffic and jobs through our 
growth in Greece."
Load-Date: April 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs; Ryanair Jobs
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 373 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, 
software development and digital marketing specialists.
Body
Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, software 
development and digital marketing specialists.
Today, An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan, joined Ryanair Chairman, David 
Bonderman to officially open Ryanair's new 100,000 sq.ft Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park, Swords.
Ryanair confirmed that in the coming year (to March 2015) its traffic will grow from 81.5m to over 84m passengers, 
as it opens new bases in Lisbon, Athens, Brussels, Rome and significantly expands its route network from Dublin 
and London Stansted airports.
In addition to creating 500 new jobs for pilots, engineers and cabin crew in 2014, Ryanair will now create a further 
200 jobs in its new Dublin offices, to develop its improved Ryanair.com digital platform (which will be released to the 
public later today) as well as its new mobile app at end June. Ryanair's Chairman David Bonderman said today: "I 
want to personally welcome An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan to Ryanair's new 
Dublin office campus. These are exciting times as we return to strong traffic growth to/from Ireland as a direct result 
of the Irish Government's foresighted decision to scrap the travel tax from 1 April. The repeal of this tax has directly 
led Ryanair to open 21 new routes to Ireland in 2014, as well as increasing frequencies on over 30 other routes, in 
an expansion that will add more than 1.1m passengers at Dublin, Shannon and Knock airports, and will create over 
1,000 new jobs in Irish tourism in 2014." "Ryanair sees the decision to scrap the travel tax as a welcome policy 
development by Mr Kenny's government, which will enable Ireland's airline/tourism industry to grow strongly, and it 
has certainly encouraged Ryanair to invest in, and help create, thousands of new jobs here in Ireland in 2014. I am 
excited by Ryanair's growth prospects, as we take delivery of another 175 aircraft from our partners Boeing. We 
look forward to welcoming these 200 new people to Ryanair's new Dublin office campus, where they will join a team 
which continues to show that Ireland leads the world airline industry and will continue to do so for years to come."
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs; Ryanair Jobs
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 373 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, 
software development and digital marketing specialists.
Body
Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, software 
development and digital marketing specialists.
Today, An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan, joined Ryanair Chairman, David 
Bonderman to officially open Ryanair's new 100,000 sq.ft Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park, Swords.
Ryanair confirmed that in the coming year (to March 2015) its traffic will grow from 81.5m to over 84m passengers, 
as it opens new bases in Lisbon, Athens, Brussels, Rome and significantly expands its route network from Dublin 
and London Stansted airports.
In addition to creating 500 new jobs for pilots, engineers and cabin crew in 2014, Ryanair will now create a further 
200 jobs in its new Dublin offices, to develop its improved Ryanair.com digital platform (which will be released to the 
public later today) as well as its new mobile app at end June. Ryanair's Chairman David Bonderman said today: "I 
want to personally welcome An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan to Ryanair's new 
Dublin office campus. These are exciting times as we return to strong traffic growth to/from Ireland as a direct result 
of the Irish Government's foresighted decision to scrap the travel tax from 1 April. The repeal of this tax has directly 
led Ryanair to open 21 new routes to Ireland in 2014, as well as increasing frequencies on over 30 other routes, in 
an expansion that will add more than 1.1m passengers at Dublin, Shannon and Knock airports, and will create over 
1,000 new jobs in Irish tourism in 2014." "Ryanair sees the decision to scrap the travel tax as a welcome policy 
development by Mr Kenny's government, which will enable Ireland's airline/tourism industry to grow strongly, and it 
has certainly encouraged Ryanair to invest in, and help create, thousands of new jobs here in Ireland in 2014. I am 
excited by Ryanair's growth prospects, as we take delivery of another 175 aircraft from our partners Boeing. We 
look forward to welcoming these 200 new people to Ryanair's new Dublin office campus, where they will join a team 
which continues to show that Ireland leads the world airline industry and will continue to do so for years to come."
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Load-Date: April 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs; Ryanair Jobs
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 373 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, 
software development and digital marketing specialists.
Body
Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, software 
development and digital marketing specialists.
Today, An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan, joined Ryanair Chairman, David 
Bonderman to officially open Ryanair's new 100,000 sq.ft Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park, Swords.
Ryanair confirmed that in the coming year (to March 2015) its traffic will grow from 81.5m to over 84m passengers, 
as it opens new bases in Lisbon, Athens, Brussels, Rome and significantly expands its route network from Dublin 
and London Stansted airports.
In addition to creating 500 new jobs for pilots, engineers and cabin crew in 2014, Ryanair will now create a further 
200 jobs in its new Dublin offices, to develop its improved Ryanair.com digital platform (which will be released to the 
public later today) as well as its new mobile app at end June. Ryanair's Chairman David Bonderman said today: "I 
want to personally welcome An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan to Ryanair's new 
Dublin office campus. These are exciting times as we return to strong traffic growth to/from Ireland as a direct result 
of the Irish Government's foresighted decision to scrap the travel tax from 1 April. The repeal of this tax has directly 
led Ryanair to open 21 new routes to Ireland in 2014, as well as increasing frequencies on over 30 other routes, in 
an expansion that will add more than 1.1m passengers at Dublin, Shannon and Knock airports, and will create over 
1,000 new jobs in Irish tourism in 2014." "Ryanair sees the decision to scrap the travel tax as a welcome policy 
development by Mr Kenny's government, which will enable Ireland's airline/tourism industry to grow strongly, and it 
has certainly encouraged Ryanair to invest in, and help create, thousands of new jobs here in Ireland in 2014. I am 
excited by Ryanair's growth prospects, as we take delivery of another 175 aircraft from our partners Boeing. We 
look forward to welcoming these 200 new people to Ryanair's new Dublin office campus, where they will join a team 
which continues to show that Ireland leads the world airline industry and will continue to do so for years to come."
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs; Ryanair Jobs
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs; Ryanair Jobs
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 373 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, 
software development and digital marketing specialists.
Body
Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, software 
development and digital marketing specialists.
Today, An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan, joined Ryanair Chairman, David 
Bonderman to officially open Ryanair's new 100,000 sq.ft Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park, Swords.
Ryanair confirmed that in the coming year (to March 2015) its traffic will grow from 81.5m to over 84m passengers, 
as it opens new bases in Lisbon, Athens, Brussels, Rome and significantly expands its route network from Dublin 
and London Stansted airports.
In addition to creating 500 new jobs for pilots, engineers and cabin crew in 2014, Ryanair will now create a further 
200 jobs in its new Dublin offices, to develop its improved Ryanair.com digital platform (which will be released to the 
public later today) as well as its new mobile app at end June. Ryanair's Chairman David Bonderman said today: "I 
want to personally welcome An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan to Ryanair's new 
Dublin office campus. These are exciting times as we return to strong traffic growth to/from Ireland as a direct result 
of the Irish Government's foresighted decision to scrap the travel tax from 1 April. The repeal of this tax has directly 
led Ryanair to open 21 new routes to Ireland in 2014, as well as increasing frequencies on over 30 other routes, in 
an expansion that will add more than 1.1m passengers at Dublin, Shannon and Knock airports, and will create over 
1,000 new jobs in Irish tourism in 2014." "Ryanair sees the decision to scrap the travel tax as a welcome policy 
development by Mr Kenny's government, which will enable Ireland's airline/tourism industry to grow strongly, and it 
has certainly encouraged Ryanair to invest in, and help create, thousands of new jobs here in Ireland in 2014. I am 
excited by Ryanair's growth prospects, as we take delivery of another 175 aircraft from our partners Boeing. We 
look forward to welcoming these 200 new people to Ryanair's new Dublin office campus, where they will join a team 
which continues to show that Ireland leads the world airline industry and will continue to do so for years to come."
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs; Ryanair Jobs
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs; Ryanair Jobs
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 373 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, 
software development and digital marketing specialists.
Body
Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, software 
development and digital marketing specialists.
Today, An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan, joined Ryanair Chairman, David 
Bonderman to officially open Ryanair's new 100,000 sq.ft Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park, Swords.
Ryanair confirmed that in the coming year (to March 2015) its traffic will grow from 81.5m to over 84m passengers, 
as it opens new bases in Lisbon, Athens, Brussels, Rome and significantly expands its route network from Dublin 
and London Stansted airports.
In addition to creating 500 new jobs for pilots, engineers and cabin crew in 2014, Ryanair will now create a further 
200 jobs in its new Dublin offices, to develop its improved Ryanair.com digital platform (which will be released to the 
public later today) as well as its new mobile app at end June. Ryanair's Chairman David Bonderman said today: "I 
want to personally welcome An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan to Ryanair's new 
Dublin office campus. These are exciting times as we return to strong traffic growth to/from Ireland as a direct result 
of the Irish Government's foresighted decision to scrap the travel tax from 1 April. The repeal of this tax has directly 
led Ryanair to open 21 new routes to Ireland in 2014, as well as increasing frequencies on over 30 other routes, in 
an expansion that will add more than 1.1m passengers at Dublin, Shannon and Knock airports, and will create over 
1,000 new jobs in Irish tourism in 2014." "Ryanair sees the decision to scrap the travel tax as a welcome policy 
development by Mr Kenny's government, which will enable Ireland's airline/tourism industry to grow strongly, and it 
has certainly encouraged Ryanair to invest in, and help create, thousands of new jobs here in Ireland in 2014. I am 
excited by Ryanair's growth prospects, as we take delivery of another 175 aircraft from our partners Boeing. We 
look forward to welcoming these 200 new people to Ryanair's new Dublin office campus, where they will join a team 
which continues to show that Ireland leads the world airline industry and will continue to do so for years to come."
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs; Ryanair Jobs
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 373 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, 
software development and digital marketing specialists.
Body
Ryanair today announced plans to create 200 new jobs here in Ireland, primarily for technology, software 
development and digital marketing specialists.
Today, An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan, joined Ryanair Chairman, David 
Bonderman to officially open Ryanair's new 100,000 sq.ft Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park, Swords.
Ryanair confirmed that in the coming year (to March 2015) its traffic will grow from 81.5m to over 84m passengers, 
as it opens new bases in Lisbon, Athens, Brussels, Rome and significantly expands its route network from Dublin 
and London Stansted airports.
In addition to creating 500 new jobs for pilots, engineers and cabin crew in 2014, Ryanair will now create a further 
200 jobs in its new Dublin offices, to develop its improved Ryanair.com digital platform (which will be released to the 
public later today) as well as its new mobile app at end June. Ryanair's Chairman David Bonderman said today: "I 
want to personally welcome An Taoiseach, Enda Kenny and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan to Ryanair's new 
Dublin office campus. These are exciting times as we return to strong traffic growth to/from Ireland as a direct result 
of the Irish Government's foresighted decision to scrap the travel tax from 1 April. The repeal of this tax has directly 
led Ryanair to open 21 new routes to Ireland in 2014, as well as increasing frequencies on over 30 other routes, in 
an expansion that will add more than 1.1m passengers at Dublin, Shannon and Knock airports, and will create over 
1,000 new jobs in Irish tourism in 2014." "Ryanair sees the decision to scrap the travel tax as a welcome policy 
development by Mr Kenny's government, which will enable Ireland's airline/tourism industry to grow strongly, and it 
has certainly encouraged Ryanair to invest in, and help create, thousands of new jobs here in Ireland in 2014. I am 
excited by Ryanair's growth prospects, as we take delivery of another 175 aircraft from our partners Boeing. We 
look forward to welcoming these 200 new people to Ryanair's new Dublin office campus, where they will join a team 
which continues to show that Ireland leads the world airline industry and will continue to do so for years to come."
Ryanair to create 200 Irish tech jobs Ryanair Jobs
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 
million travellers in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
Body
Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 million travellers 
in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
The airline recorded 81.7 million passengers in the year to the end of this March, a rise of 3pc.
Its load factor- an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - came in at 80pc, a 1pc gain in the 
year while the load factor for the 12 months to the end of this march stood at 83pc.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m customers in March as previously guided, due to 
the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). Ryanair's load factor increased by 1pc as customers 
continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and recent improvements in customer service including 
allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag."
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 
million travellers in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
Body
Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 million travellers 
in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
The airline recorded 81.7 million passengers in the year to the end of this March, a rise of 3pc.
Its load factor- an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - came in at 80pc, a 1pc gain in the 
year while the load factor for the 12 months to the end of this march stood at 83pc.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m customers in March as previously guided, due to 
the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). Ryanair's load factor increased by 1pc as customers 
continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and recent improvements in customer service including 
allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag."
Load-Date: April 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 
million travellers in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
Body
Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 million travellers 
in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
The airline recorded 81.7 million passengers in the year to the end of this March, a rise of 3pc.
Its load factor- an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - came in at 80pc, a 1pc gain in the 
year while the load factor for the 12 months to the end of this march stood at 83pc.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m customers in March as previously guided, due to 
the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). Ryanair's load factor increased by 1pc as customers 
continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and recent improvements in customer service including 
allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag."
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 
million travellers in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
Body
Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 million travellers 
in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
The airline recorded 81.7 million passengers in the year to the end of this March, a rise of 3pc.
Its load factor- an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - came in at 80pc, a 1pc gain in the 
year while the load factor for the 12 months to the end of this march stood at 83pc.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m customers in March as previously guided, due to 
the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). Ryanair's load factor increased by 1pc as customers 
continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and recent improvements in customer service including 
allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag."
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 
million travellers in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
Body
Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 million travellers 
in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
The airline recorded 81.7 million passengers in the year to the end of this March, a rise of 3pc.
Its load factor- an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - came in at 80pc, a 1pc gain in the 
year while the load factor for the 12 months to the end of this march stood at 83pc.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m customers in March as previously guided, due to 
the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). Ryanair's load factor increased by 1pc as customers 
continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and recent improvements in customer service including 
allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag."
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 
million travellers in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
Body
Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 million travellers 
in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
The airline recorded 81.7 million passengers in the year to the end of this March, a rise of 3pc.
Its load factor- an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - came in at 80pc, a 1pc gain in the 
year while the load factor for the 12 months to the end of this march stood at 83pc.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m customers in March as previously guided, due to 
the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). Ryanair's load factor increased by 1pc as customers 
continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and recent improvements in customer service including 
allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag."
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers dip 4pc in Mar; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 
million travellers in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
Body
Ryanair today said that passenger numbers fell by 4pc to 5.2 million in March compared to the 5.4 million travellers 
in March 2013, largely because of the timing of Easter last year.
The airline recorded 81.7 million passengers in the year to the end of this March, a rise of 3pc.
Its load factor- an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft - came in at 80pc, a 1pc gain in the 
year while the load factor for the 12 months to the end of this march stood at 83pc.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m customers in March as previously guided, due to 
the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). Ryanair's load factor increased by 1pc as customers 
continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and recent improvements in customer service including 
allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag."
Load-Date: April 8, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair To Create 200 New Technology & Digital Jobs In Ireland - Quick Facts
Ryanair To Create 200 New Technology & Digital Jobs In Ireland - Quick 
Facts
RTT News (United States)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced that it plans to create 200 
new jobs in Ireland, primarily for technology, software development and digital marketing specialists, as An 
Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, and Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan, joined Ryanair Chairman, David Bonderman to 
officially open Ryanair's new 100,000 sq.ft Dublin office campus in Airside Business Park, Swords.
Ryanair confirmed that in the coming year (to March 2015) its traffic will grow from 81.5 million passengers to over 
84 million passengers, as it opens new bases in Lisbon, Athens, Brussels, Rome and significantly expands its route 
network from Dublin and London Stansted airports.
In addition to creating 500 new jobs for pilots, engineers and cabin crew in 2014, Ryanair will now create a further 
200 jobs in its new Dublin offices, to develop its improved Ryanair.com digital platform as well as its new mobile 
app at end June.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: April 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair March Traffic Down 4% - Quick Facts
Ryanair March Traffic Down 4% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
April 3, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 129 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) said that its traffic for the month of March 
2014 declined 4% to 5.2 million customers from last year's 5.4 million customers.
But, monthly load factor improved 1% to 80% from 79% in the same month last year.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "Ryanair traffic fell by 200,000 to 5.2m customers in March as previously guided, due to 
the movement of Easter into April (from March last year). Ryanair's load factor increased by 1% as customers 
continue to enjoy our lowest fares, easier to use website and recent improvements in customer service including 
allocated seating and a free second small carry-on bag."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: April 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair opens third Portuguese base at Lisbon Airport
Ryanair opens third Portuguese base at Lisbon Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 3, 2014 Thursday 6:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 175 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has opened its third Portuguese base at Lisbon Airport with one based aircraft and 
seven new routes.
Body
In 2014, Ryanair's growth at Lisbon will deliver: 7 new routes to Dole, Dublin, Faro, Manchester, Marseille, Pisa & 
Porto (11 in total); 124 weekly flights; 900,000 pax p.a; and 900 "on site" jobs. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, 
Kenny Jacobs said: "Only Ryanair, with its 175 new aircraft order, can deliver the capacity, new markets and low 
costs demanded by Portuguese consumers and visitors, and looks forward to working with Lisbon Airport to unlock 
its vast potential and to help grow tourism, traffic and jobs. "Our 7 new Lisbon routes will allow even more 
customers to escape TAP's high fares and instead enjoy Ryanair's lowest fares and industry leading customer 
service. This is the first summer where Ryanair customers can enjoy a free small second carry-on bag, "quiet 
flights", allocated seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making Ryanair the 
ideal choice for families and friends looking to get away this summer, with a new website, smartphone app, and 
family and business products coming soon."
Load-Date: April 9, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair announces nine new routes from Dublin
Ryanair announces nine new routes from Dublin
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 3, 2014 Thursday 1:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 140 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has started its Dublin summer 2014 season with nine new routes to Almeria, Bari, 
Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and Prague.
Body
Ryanair's summer 2014 schedule at Dublin will deliver: extra flights & improved schedules on 10 routes including 
Barcelona, Faro, Nice & Paris Beauvais; 85 Dublin routes in total; over 800,000 extra passengers p.a.; and 8.35m 
passengers in total. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "We are pleased to celebrate the start of 
the summer season and our 9 new Dublin routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, 
Marrakesh and Prague. "This is the first summer where Ryanair customers can enjoy a free small second carry-on 
bag, "quiet flights", allocated seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making 
Ryanair the ideal choice for families and friends looking to get away this summer, with a new website, smartphone 
app, and family and business products coming soon."
Load-Date: April 9, 2014
End of Document
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
How to ruin a company in 140 characters; Twitter Gaffe
Business World (Digest)
April 2, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 923 words
Highlight: When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on 
Twitter last week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of 
saying the wrong thing.
Body
When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on Twitter last 
week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of saying the 
wrong thing.
"Whilst your dad is an evil genius," the scion of the Rothschild banking dynasty tweeted to Aga Bakrie, "the word on 
the street is that you are extremely DUMB."
The tweet made the front pages of media around the world as journalists, used to the measured language of 
corporate press releases, seized on a seemingly unguarded remark showing that even powerful businessmen can 
descend to playground taunts.
For Rothschild, the publicity was a welcome opportunity to revive interest in his long-running campaign against 
Indonesia's influential Bakrie family, whom he blames for a plunge in the value of ARMS' predecessor company. 
Within 24 hours, his number of followers on Twitter had jumped to 1,700 from 200. But not all business leaders 
have been so fortunate with their apparently off-the-cuff remarks on social media. Last year Michael O'Leary, boss 
of budget airline Ryanair , was denounced by one Twitter user as a "sexist pig" after he tweeted: "Nice pic. 
Phwoaaarr!" to a woman, whose image was shown during a live question and answer session. The former chief 
executive of Britain's Co-operative Group , meanwhile, laid open the divisions within the company in March when 
he accused one or more board members via Facebook of being "determined to undermine me personally" after his 
pay package was leaked to the press. He resigned a few days later. Even Twitter boss Dick Costolo has got into hot 
water on the social media site, comparing academic Vivek Wadwha to over-the-top U.S. comedian Carrot Top, after 
the professor was quoted as saying Twitter's board lacked diversity. Little surprise then that research last year by 
CEO.com and Domo found 68 percent of Fortune 500 chief executives were not on any social network. Company 
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
bosses on Twitter are on the increase, up more than half from 2012 to 2013, but the number remains small with just 
28 out of top 500 CEOs on the site. For many chief executives, the risks are just too high. "Unless you're happy for 
something to appear on the front page of a newspaper or on a newswire you shouldn't really tweet it," said Mary 
Whenman, managing director of corporate, financial and public affairs at PR agency Weber Shandwick. While a 
dangerous platform for plain-speaking chief executives, social media has been used more effectively by activist 
investors looking to drum up support for a campaign. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, for example, used Twitter for 
months to urge Apple to buy back more shares, before the technology group eventually proposed in February a 
dollar 14 billion stock repurchase programme. Nat Rothschild himself, while insisting his outburst against Aga 
Bakrie was "instinctive", concedes he joined Twitter a few weeks ago for "strategic reasons." "I'm interested in 
Indonesia and my investments, one of which has a serious litigation component to it, and in that respect I want to 
make sure people continue to focus on the situation," he told Reuters. Although announcing market moving news 
over Twitter has been allowed in the United States since last year, it is off limits in Britain, where it must first go 
though a regulated channel. But Twitter allows businesses to jump into a moving news story and respond to events 
immediately. "You can see how slow it is to use traditional emails and press release distribution systems," said Rory 
Godson, founder of communications agency Powerscourt, who suggested to Rothschild he should join Twitter. "It is 
definitely not suitable for everyone ... but for Nat in this case it enables him to respond very quickly and it also 
enables him to build global support." Some business leaders do make it work. Rupert Murdoch and Richard 
Branson are both seen within the communications industry as masters of moving minds with 140 characters or less, 
although they are protected by virtually unassailable positions within their own companies. Murdoch has around 
500,000 followers on Twitter, and Branson four million. Jeff Joerres, chief executive of staffing group Manpower 
who has over 7,000 Twitter followers, told Reuters the social network was an important way of giving big business a 
human face, though it was essential to know the boundaries. "You've got to put a bit of personality and imagination 
into it, but not go overboard," he said. "It's my personal account, but at the same time it is not - I'm speaking as the 
company." One executive to have won plaudits for his use of Twitter is Paul Pester, boss of Britain's TSB Bank, 
who jumped on to the social network in January to respond to complaints after thousands of cash machines failed. 
His personal tone in apologising and offering advice helped to manage the crisis. For Whenman at Weber 
Shandwick, social media now has to be seen as part of being a CEO. "In the same way a chief executive of any 
FTSE 100 company needs to do media interviews, needs to go into analyst briefings, they also now need to have a 
social media profile. It's a normal part of business life," she said. Manpower's Joerres said Twitter, like drinking, was 
just a matter of knowing your limits. "People only need to worry about it if they do something stupid," he said. "I go 
to bars and don't worry about it. You only go to bars and worry about it if you think you are going to do something 
stupid when you are drinking." (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 2, 2014
End of Document
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
How to ruin a company in 140 characters; Twitter Gaffe
Business World (Digest)
April 2, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 923 words
Highlight: When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on 
Twitter last week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of 
saying the wrong thing.
Body
When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on Twitter last 
week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of saying the 
wrong thing.
"Whilst your dad is an evil genius," the scion of the Rothschild banking dynasty tweeted to Aga Bakrie, "the word on 
the street is that you are extremely DUMB."
The tweet made the front pages of media around the world as journalists, used to the measured language of 
corporate press releases, seized on a seemingly unguarded remark showing that even powerful businessmen can 
descend to playground taunts.
For Rothschild, the publicity was a welcome opportunity to revive interest in his long-running campaign against 
Indonesia's influential Bakrie family, whom he blames for a plunge in the value of ARMS' predecessor company. 
Within 24 hours, his number of followers on Twitter had jumped to 1,700 from 200. But not all business leaders 
have been so fortunate with their apparently off-the-cuff remarks on social media. Last year Michael O'Leary, boss 
of budget airline Ryanair , was denounced by one Twitter user as a "sexist pig" after he tweeted: "Nice pic. 
Phwoaaarr!" to a woman, whose image was shown during a live question and answer session. The former chief 
executive of Britain's Co-operative Group , meanwhile, laid open the divisions within the company in March when 
he accused one or more board members via Facebook of being "determined to undermine me personally" after his 
pay package was leaked to the press. He resigned a few days later. Even Twitter boss Dick Costolo has got into hot 
water on the social media site, comparing academic Vivek Wadwha to over-the-top U.S. comedian Carrot Top, after 
the professor was quoted as saying Twitter's board lacked diversity. Little surprise then that research last year by 
CEO.com and Domo found 68 percent of Fortune 500 chief executives were not on any social network. Company 
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
bosses on Twitter are on the increase, up more than half from 2012 to 2013, but the number remains small with just 
28 out of top 500 CEOs on the site. For many chief executives, the risks are just too high. "Unless you're happy for 
something to appear on the front page of a newspaper or on a newswire you shouldn't really tweet it," said Mary 
Whenman, managing director of corporate, financial and public affairs at PR agency Weber Shandwick. While a 
dangerous platform for plain-speaking chief executives, social media has been used more effectively by activist 
investors looking to drum up support for a campaign. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, for example, used Twitter for 
months to urge Apple to buy back more shares, before the technology group eventually proposed in February a 
dollar 14 billion stock repurchase programme. Nat Rothschild himself, while insisting his outburst against Aga 
Bakrie was "instinctive", concedes he joined Twitter a few weeks ago for "strategic reasons." "I'm interested in 
Indonesia and my investments, one of which has a serious litigation component to it, and in that respect I want to 
make sure people continue to focus on the situation," he told Reuters. Although announcing market moving news 
over Twitter has been allowed in the United States since last year, it is off limits in Britain, where it must first go 
though a regulated channel. But Twitter allows businesses to jump into a moving news story and respond to events 
immediately. "You can see how slow it is to use traditional emails and press release distribution systems," said Rory 
Godson, founder of communications agency Powerscourt, who suggested to Rothschild he should join Twitter. "It is 
definitely not suitable for everyone ... but for Nat in this case it enables him to respond very quickly and it also 
enables him to build global support." Some business leaders do make it work. Rupert Murdoch and Richard 
Branson are both seen within the communications industry as masters of moving minds with 140 characters or less, 
although they are protected by virtually unassailable positions within their own companies. Murdoch has around 
500,000 followers on Twitter, and Branson four million. Jeff Joerres, chief executive of staffing group Manpower 
who has over 7,000 Twitter followers, told Reuters the social network was an important way of giving big business a 
human face, though it was essential to know the boundaries. "You've got to put a bit of personality and imagination 
into it, but not go overboard," he said. "It's my personal account, but at the same time it is not - I'm speaking as the 
company." One executive to have won plaudits for his use of Twitter is Paul Pester, boss of Britain's TSB Bank, 
who jumped on to the social network in January to respond to complaints after thousands of cash machines failed. 
His personal tone in apologising and offering advice helped to manage the crisis. For Whenman at Weber 
Shandwick, social media now has to be seen as part of being a CEO. "In the same way a chief executive of any 
FTSE 100 company needs to do media interviews, needs to go into analyst briefings, they also now need to have a 
social media profile. It's a normal part of business life," she said. Manpower's Joerres said Twitter, like drinking, was 
just a matter of knowing your limits. "People only need to worry about it if they do something stupid," he said. "I go 
to bars and don't worry about it. You only go to bars and worry about it if you think you are going to do something 
stupid when you are drinking." (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
End of Document
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
How to ruin a company in 140 characters; Twitter Gaffe
Business World (Digest)
April 2, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 923 words
Highlight: When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on 
Twitter last week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of 
saying the wrong thing.
Body
When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on Twitter last 
week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of saying the 
wrong thing.
"Whilst your dad is an evil genius," the scion of the Rothschild banking dynasty tweeted to Aga Bakrie, "the word on 
the street is that you are extremely DUMB."
The tweet made the front pages of media around the world as journalists, used to the measured language of 
corporate press releases, seized on a seemingly unguarded remark showing that even powerful businessmen can 
descend to playground taunts.
For Rothschild, the publicity was a welcome opportunity to revive interest in his long-running campaign against 
Indonesia's influential Bakrie family, whom he blames for a plunge in the value of ARMS' predecessor company. 
Within 24 hours, his number of followers on Twitter had jumped to 1,700 from 200. But not all business leaders 
have been so fortunate with their apparently off-the-cuff remarks on social media. Last year Michael O'Leary, boss 
of budget airline Ryanair , was denounced by one Twitter user as a "sexist pig" after he tweeted: "Nice pic. 
Phwoaaarr!" to a woman, whose image was shown during a live question and answer session. The former chief 
executive of Britain's Co-operative Group , meanwhile, laid open the divisions within the company in March when 
he accused one or more board members via Facebook of being "determined to undermine me personally" after his 
pay package was leaked to the press. He resigned a few days later. Even Twitter boss Dick Costolo has got into hot 
water on the social media site, comparing academic Vivek Wadwha to over-the-top U.S. comedian Carrot Top, after 
the professor was quoted as saying Twitter's board lacked diversity. Little surprise then that research last year by 
CEO.com and Domo found 68 percent of Fortune 500 chief executives were not on any social network. Company 
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
bosses on Twitter are on the increase, up more than half from 2012 to 2013, but the number remains small with just 
28 out of top 500 CEOs on the site. For many chief executives, the risks are just too high. "Unless you're happy for 
something to appear on the front page of a newspaper or on a newswire you shouldn't really tweet it," said Mary 
Whenman, managing director of corporate, financial and public affairs at PR agency Weber Shandwick. While a 
dangerous platform for plain-speaking chief executives, social media has been used more effectively by activist 
investors looking to drum up support for a campaign. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, for example, used Twitter for 
months to urge Apple to buy back more shares, before the technology group eventually proposed in February a 
dollar 14 billion stock repurchase programme. Nat Rothschild himself, while insisting his outburst against Aga 
Bakrie was "instinctive", concedes he joined Twitter a few weeks ago for "strategic reasons." "I'm interested in 
Indonesia and my investments, one of which has a serious litigation component to it, and in that respect I want to 
make sure people continue to focus on the situation," he told Reuters. Although announcing market moving news 
over Twitter has been allowed in the United States since last year, it is off limits in Britain, where it must first go 
though a regulated channel. But Twitter allows businesses to jump into a moving news story and respond to events 
immediately. "You can see how slow it is to use traditional emails and press release distribution systems," said Rory 
Godson, founder of communications agency Powerscourt, who suggested to Rothschild he should join Twitter. "It is 
definitely not suitable for everyone ... but for Nat in this case it enables him to respond very quickly and it also 
enables him to build global support." Some business leaders do make it work. Rupert Murdoch and Richard 
Branson are both seen within the communications industry as masters of moving minds with 140 characters or less, 
although they are protected by virtually unassailable positions within their own companies. Murdoch has around 
500,000 followers on Twitter, and Branson four million. Jeff Joerres, chief executive of staffing group Manpower 
who has over 7,000 Twitter followers, told Reuters the social network was an important way of giving big business a 
human face, though it was essential to know the boundaries. "You've got to put a bit of personality and imagination 
into it, but not go overboard," he said. "It's my personal account, but at the same time it is not - I'm speaking as the 
company." One executive to have won plaudits for his use of Twitter is Paul Pester, boss of Britain's TSB Bank, 
who jumped on to the social network in January to respond to complaints after thousands of cash machines failed. 
His personal tone in apologising and offering advice helped to manage the crisis. For Whenman at Weber 
Shandwick, social media now has to be seen as part of being a CEO. "In the same way a chief executive of any 
FTSE 100 company needs to do media interviews, needs to go into analyst briefings, they also now need to have a 
social media profile. It's a normal part of business life," she said. Manpower's Joerres said Twitter, like drinking, was 
just a matter of knowing your limits. "People only need to worry about it if they do something stupid," he said. "I go 
to bars and don't worry about it. You only go to bars and worry about it if you think you are going to do something 
stupid when you are drinking." (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 7, 2014
End of Document
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
How to ruin a company in 140 characters; Twitter Gaffe
Business World (Digest)
April 2, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 923 words
Highlight: When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on 
Twitter last week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of 
saying the wrong thing.
Body
When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on Twitter last 
week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of saying the 
wrong thing.
"Whilst your dad is an evil genius," the scion of the Rothschild banking dynasty tweeted to Aga Bakrie, "the word on 
the street is that you are extremely DUMB."
The tweet made the front pages of media around the world as journalists, used to the measured language of 
corporate press releases, seized on a seemingly unguarded remark showing that even powerful businessmen can 
descend to playground taunts.
For Rothschild, the publicity was a welcome opportunity to revive interest in his long-running campaign against 
Indonesia's influential Bakrie family, whom he blames for a plunge in the value of ARMS' predecessor company. 
Within 24 hours, his number of followers on Twitter had jumped to 1,700 from 200. But not all business leaders 
have been so fortunate with their apparently off-the-cuff remarks on social media. Last year Michael O'Leary, boss 
of budget airline Ryanair , was denounced by one Twitter user as a "sexist pig" after he tweeted: "Nice pic. 
Phwoaaarr!" to a woman, whose image was shown during a live question and answer session. The former chief 
executive of Britain's Co-operative Group , meanwhile, laid open the divisions within the company in March when 
he accused one or more board members via Facebook of being "determined to undermine me personally" after his 
pay package was leaked to the press. He resigned a few days later. Even Twitter boss Dick Costolo has got into hot 
water on the social media site, comparing academic Vivek Wadwha to over-the-top U.S. comedian Carrot Top, after 
the professor was quoted as saying Twitter's board lacked diversity. Little surprise then that research last year by 
CEO.com and Domo found 68 percent of Fortune 500 chief executives were not on any social network. Company 
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
bosses on Twitter are on the increase, up more than half from 2012 to 2013, but the number remains small with just 
28 out of top 500 CEOs on the site. For many chief executives, the risks are just too high. "Unless you're happy for 
something to appear on the front page of a newspaper or on a newswire you shouldn't really tweet it," said Mary 
Whenman, managing director of corporate, financial and public affairs at PR agency Weber Shandwick. While a 
dangerous platform for plain-speaking chief executives, social media has been used more effectively by activist 
investors looking to drum up support for a campaign. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, for example, used Twitter for 
months to urge Apple to buy back more shares, before the technology group eventually proposed in February a 
dollar 14 billion stock repurchase programme. Nat Rothschild himself, while insisting his outburst against Aga 
Bakrie was "instinctive", concedes he joined Twitter a few weeks ago for "strategic reasons." "I'm interested in 
Indonesia and my investments, one of which has a serious litigation component to it, and in that respect I want to 
make sure people continue to focus on the situation," he told Reuters. Although announcing market moving news 
over Twitter has been allowed in the United States since last year, it is off limits in Britain, where it must first go 
though a regulated channel. But Twitter allows businesses to jump into a moving news story and respond to events 
immediately. "You can see how slow it is to use traditional emails and press release distribution systems," said Rory 
Godson, founder of communications agency Powerscourt, who suggested to Rothschild he should join Twitter. "It is 
definitely not suitable for everyone ... but for Nat in this case it enables him to respond very quickly and it also 
enables him to build global support." Some business leaders do make it work. Rupert Murdoch and Richard 
Branson are both seen within the communications industry as masters of moving minds with 140 characters or less, 
although they are protected by virtually unassailable positions within their own companies. Murdoch has around 
500,000 followers on Twitter, and Branson four million. Jeff Joerres, chief executive of staffing group Manpower 
who has over 7,000 Twitter followers, told Reuters the social network was an important way of giving big business a 
human face, though it was essential to know the boundaries. "You've got to put a bit of personality and imagination 
into it, but not go overboard," he said. "It's my personal account, but at the same time it is not - I'm speaking as the 
company." One executive to have won plaudits for his use of Twitter is Paul Pester, boss of Britain's TSB Bank, 
who jumped on to the social network in January to respond to complaints after thousands of cash machines failed. 
His personal tone in apologising and offering advice helped to manage the crisis. For Whenman at Weber 
Shandwick, social media now has to be seen as part of being a CEO. "In the same way a chief executive of any 
FTSE 100 company needs to do media interviews, needs to go into analyst briefings, they also now need to have a 
social media profile. It's a normal part of business life," she said. Manpower's Joerres said Twitter, like drinking, was 
just a matter of knowing your limits. "People only need to worry about it if they do something stupid," he said. "I go 
to bars and don't worry about it. You only go to bars and worry about it if you think you are going to do something 
stupid when you are drinking." (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 3, 2014
End of Document
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
How to ruin a company in 140 characters; Twitter Gaffe
Business World (Digest)
April 2, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 923 words
Highlight: When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on 
Twitter last week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of 
saying the wrong thing.
Body
When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on Twitter last 
week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of saying the 
wrong thing.
"Whilst your dad is an evil genius," the scion of the Rothschild banking dynasty tweeted to Aga Bakrie, "the word on 
the street is that you are extremely DUMB."
The tweet made the front pages of media around the world as journalists, used to the measured language of 
corporate press releases, seized on a seemingly unguarded remark showing that even powerful businessmen can 
descend to playground taunts.
For Rothschild, the publicity was a welcome opportunity to revive interest in his long-running campaign against 
Indonesia's influential Bakrie family, whom he blames for a plunge in the value of ARMS' predecessor company. 
Within 24 hours, his number of followers on Twitter had jumped to 1,700 from 200. But not all business leaders 
have been so fortunate with their apparently off-the-cuff remarks on social media. Last year Michael O'Leary, boss 
of budget airline Ryanair , was denounced by one Twitter user as a "sexist pig" after he tweeted: "Nice pic. 
Phwoaaarr!" to a woman, whose image was shown during a live question and answer session. The former chief 
executive of Britain's Co-operative Group , meanwhile, laid open the divisions within the company in March when 
he accused one or more board members via Facebook of being "determined to undermine me personally" after his 
pay package was leaked to the press. He resigned a few days later. Even Twitter boss Dick Costolo has got into hot 
water on the social media site, comparing academic Vivek Wadwha to over-the-top U.S. comedian Carrot Top, after 
the professor was quoted as saying Twitter's board lacked diversity. Little surprise then that research last year by 
CEO.com and Domo found 68 percent of Fortune 500 chief executives were not on any social network. Company 
How to ruin a company in 140 characters Twitter Gaffe
bosses on Twitter are on the increase, up more than half from 2012 to 2013, but the number remains small with just 
28 out of top 500 CEOs on the site. For many chief executives, the risks are just too high. "Unless you're happy for 
something to appear on the front page of a newspaper or on a newswire you shouldn't really tweet it," said Mary 
Whenman, managing director of corporate, financial and public affairs at PR agency Weber Shandwick. While a 
dangerous platform for plain-speaking chief executives, social media has been used more effectively by activist 
investors looking to drum up support for a campaign. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, for example, used Twitter for 
months to urge Apple to buy back more shares, before the technology group eventually proposed in February a 
dollar 14 billion stock repurchase programme. Nat Rothschild himself, while insisting his outburst against Aga 
Bakrie was "instinctive", concedes he joined Twitter a few weeks ago for "strategic reasons." "I'm interested in 
Indonesia and my investments, one of which has a serious litigation component to it, and in that respect I want to 
make sure people continue to focus on the situation," he told Reuters. Although announcing market moving news 
over Twitter has been allowed in the United States since last year, it is off limits in Britain, where it must first go 
though a regulated channel. But Twitter allows businesses to jump into a moving news story and respond to events 
immediately. "You can see how slow it is to use traditional emails and press release distribution systems," said Rory 
Godson, founder of communications agency Powerscourt, who suggested to Rothschild he should join Twitter. "It is 
definitely not suitable for everyone ... but for Nat in this case it enables him to respond very quickly and it also 
enables him to build global support." Some business leaders do make it work. Rupert Murdoch and Richard 
Branson are both seen within the communications industry as masters of moving minds with 140 characters or less, 
although they are protected by virtually unassailable positions within their own companies. Murdoch has around 
500,000 followers on Twitter, and Branson four million. Jeff Joerres, chief executive of staffing group Manpower 
who has over 7,000 Twitter followers, told Reuters the social network was an important way of giving big business a 
human face, though it was essential to know the boundaries. "You've got to put a bit of personality and imagination 
into it, but not go overboard," he said. "It's my personal account, but at the same time it is not - I'm speaking as the 
company." One executive to have won plaudits for his use of Twitter is Paul Pester, boss of Britain's TSB Bank, 
who jumped on to the social network in January to respond to complaints after thousands of cash machines failed. 
His personal tone in apologising and offering advice helped to manage the crisis. For Whenman at Weber 
Shandwick, social media now has to be seen as part of being a CEO. "In the same way a chief executive of any 
FTSE 100 company needs to do media interviews, needs to go into analyst briefings, they also now need to have a 
social media profile. It's a normal part of business life," she said. Manpower's Joerres said Twitter, like drinking, was 
just a matter of knowing your limits. "People only need to worry about it if they do something stupid," he said. "I go 
to bars and don't worry about it. You only go to bars and worry about it if you think you are going to do something 
stupid when you are drinking." (Reuters)
Load-Date: April 4, 2014
End of Document
Mick the miner raises $3.75bn for new deals
Mick the miner raises $3.75bn for new deals
City A.M.
April 1, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 442 words
Byline: MICHAEL BOW
Body
THE FORMER boss of mining giant Xstrata is back on the acquisition trial after raising up to $3.75bn (£2.25bn) 
from five institutional investors.
Mick Davis, dubbed Mick the Miner for his successful mining exploits, has raised the money through his X2 
Resources company vehicle, which will use the money to invest in various metal and mining assets around the 
world.
US private equity giant TPG Capital and minerals group Noble Group have been revealed as two of the investors, 
with a further three investors made up of large institutional pension funds and sovereign wealth funds.
"We have attracted a very prestigious core group of large scale, high quality investors who share our vision of 
building a new mining group with the potential to generate attractive returns through the cycle," Davis said.
We believe the timing for this venture remains very opportune and we will now focus increased attention on starting 
the investment process."
Each of the five has put up $500m for the fund with an extra $1.25bn on offer from the five to help fund future 
projects.
Davis is now understood to be on the lookout for more investors to come on board with the company, which is on 
course to grow to a mid-tier mining player.
Davis was chief executive of Xstrata before its $29bn takeover by commodity trading giant Glencore.
He has joined forces with Xstrata's former chief financial officer Trevor Reid at X2, which is based in London.
Mick the miner raises $3.75bn for new deals
The business will be run as a hybridtype company which takes its cue from the private equity funding model, where 
investors give cash over to firms for long periods and the money is used to buy assets.
It will look to invest in mines that are already operational rather than go into the riskier strategy of exploration 
mining.
TPG, originally Texas Pacific Group, is led by private equity veteran David Bonderman, who is the chairman of 
airline Ryanair.
BEHIND THE DEAL GOLDMAN SACHS | BRETT OLSHER 1 Olsher sits on an advisory board for Columbia 
University's school of international and public affairs.
2 Before his career in investment banking he ran his own company, Olsher Metals Corporation, which was a 
commodities trading and distribution house.
3 Before joining Goldman as partner he worked for Deutsche Bank for nine years between 2001 and 2010. He 
previously worked with Mick Davis on deals at Xstrata.
Also advising...
Goldman acted as placing agent on the deal and joining Olsher from Goldman Sachs were Christos Tomaras and 
Stephen Withnell. Tomaras is a managing director working in European financial sponsor mergers and acquisition 
while Withnell is also a managing director. Aura Financial offered PR advice.
MICHAEL BOW
Graphic
 
Mick Davis is the former chief executive of Xstrata who now runs new venture X2
Load-Date: April 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open 9 new Dublin Summer routes Ryanair Dublin
Ryanair open 9 new Dublin Summer routes; Ryanair Dublin
Business World (Digest)
April 1, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Highlight: Ryanair today celebrated the start of its Dublin summer season with nine new routes to Almeria, Bari, 
Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and Prague.
Body
Ryanair today celebrated the start of its Dublin summer season with nine new routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, 
Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and Prague.
It said that the new routes will deliver over 800,000 more passengers at Dublin Airport this year.
In Dublin, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "We are pleased to celebrate the start of the 
summer season and our 9 new Dublin routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, 
Marrakesh and Prague. This is the first summer where Ryanair customers can enjoy a free small second carry-on 
bag, "quiet flights", allocated seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making 
Ryanair the ideal choice for families and friends looking to get away this summer, with a new website, smartphone 
app, and family and business products coming soon."
Load-Date: April 2, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open 9 new Dublin Summer routes Ryanair Dublin
Ryanair open 9 new Dublin Summer routes; Ryanair Dublin
Business World (Digest)
April 1, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Highlight: Ryanair today celebrated the start of its Dublin summer season with nine new routes to Almeria, Bari, 
Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and Prague.
Body
Ryanair today celebrated the start of its Dublin summer season with nine new routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, 
Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and Prague.
It said that the new routes will deliver over 800,000 more passengers at Dublin Airport this year.
In Dublin, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "We are pleased to celebrate the start of the 
summer season and our 9 new Dublin routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, 
Marrakesh and Prague. This is the first summer where Ryanair customers can enjoy a free small second carry-on 
bag, "quiet flights", allocated seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making 
Ryanair the ideal choice for families and friends looking to get away this summer, with a new website, smartphone 
app, and family and business products coming soon."
Load-Date: April 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair open 9 new Dublin Summer routes; Ryanair Dublin
Ryanair open 9 new Dublin Summer routes; Ryanair Dublin
Business World (Digest)
April 1, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Highlight: Ryanair today celebrated the start of its Dublin summer season with nine new routes to Almeria, Bari, 
Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and Prague.
Body
Ryanair today celebrated the start of its Dublin summer season with nine new routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, 
Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and Prague.
It said that the new routes will deliver over 800,000 more passengers at Dublin Airport this year.
In Dublin, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "We are pleased to celebrate the start of the 
summer season and our 9 new Dublin routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, 
Marrakesh and Prague. This is the first summer where Ryanair customers can enjoy a free small second carry-on 
bag, "quiet flights", allocated seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making 
Ryanair the ideal choice for families and friends looking to get away this summer, with a new website, smartphone 
app, and family and business products coming soon."
Load-Date: April 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair expects second rating
Ryanair expects second rating
AirFinance Journal
April 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS
Length: 105 words
Highlight: Low cost carrier hopes to get a second rating by mid-May.
Body
Irish low cost carrier Ryanair hopes to secure a second corporate rating from rating agency Fitch.
Airfinance Journal understands the process should be completed by mid-May.
Last month Ryanair secured a corporate credit rating of BBB+ from rating agency Standard and Poor's, making it 
the highest rated airline globally.
Securing a second rating will allow the carrier to access the capital markets- a move that Ryanair's CFO Howard 
Millar hope to compete before its first new 737 deliveries in September.
Earlier this year Airfinance Journal discussed the airline's capital markets aspirations with Millar.
ypalagacheva@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
End of Document
Shannon sees 9 new air routes this week Shannon Grows
Shannon sees 9 new air routes this week; Shannon Grows
Business World (Digest)
March 31, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 239 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport will enter significant growth mode this week as nine new routes commence in five days 
in a major boost for tourism and business.
Body
Shannon Airport will enter significant growth mode this week as nine new routes commence in five days in a major 
boost for tourism and business.
Less than 15 months after the airport was made independent, Shannon will enjoy its biggest week in almost a 
decade in terms of new route start-ups as Ryanair launches new services, to Munich, Paris, Faro, Warsaw, Krakow, 
Nice, Poitiers, Berlin, Fuerteventura, while Aer Lingus Regional kicks-off a new Bristol service.
The 2014 summer season, which officially begins in April, will see 16 service enhancements at Shannon, including 
the nine new routes. Among the enhanced services is the now year-round Aer Lingus New York service which 
commenced yesterday, Sunday. This will be a six times weekly service and is the first time Aer Lingus will have 
operated year-round on New York since 2009.
Aer Lingus also yesterday started a new twice weekly Malaga service, which will add to the significantly expanded 
European network to and from the airport this year. Speaking today, Shannon Airport CEO Neil Pakey said that the 
coming five days are very encouraging for Shannon. "This week is a turning point for Shannon. Not since 2005 has 
Shannon had a week like this in terms of new routes starting up and we see this as a real reward for the loyalty of 
our passengers across Ireland They now have excellent choice from Shannon with 37 attractive destinations in 
Europe, the UK and North America."
Load-Date: April 3, 2014
End of Document
Shannon sees 9 new air routes this week Shannon Grows
Shannon sees 9 new air routes this week; Shannon Grows
Business World (Digest)
March 31, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 239 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport will enter significant growth mode this week as nine new routes commence in five days 
in a major boost for tourism and business.
Body
Shannon Airport will enter significant growth mode this week as nine new routes commence in five days in a major 
boost for tourism and business.
Less than 15 months after the airport was made independent, Shannon will enjoy its biggest week in almost a 
decade in terms of new route start-ups as Ryanair launches new services, to Munich, Paris, Faro, Warsaw, Krakow, 
Nice, Poitiers, Berlin, Fuerteventura, while Aer Lingus Regional kicks-off a new Bristol service.
The 2014 summer season, which officially begins in April, will see 16 service enhancements at Shannon, including 
the nine new routes. Among the enhanced services is the now year-round Aer Lingus New York service which 
commenced yesterday, Sunday. This will be a six times weekly service and is the first time Aer Lingus will have 
operated year-round on New York since 2009.
Aer Lingus also yesterday started a new twice weekly Malaga service, which will add to the significantly expanded 
European network to and from the airport this year. Speaking today, Shannon Airport CEO Neil Pakey said that the 
coming five days are very encouraging for Shannon. "This week is a turning point for Shannon. Not since 2005 has 
Shannon had a week like this in terms of new routes starting up and we see this as a real reward for the loyalty of 
our passengers across Ireland They now have excellent choice from Shannon with 37 attractive destinations in 
Europe, the UK and North America."
Load-Date: March 31, 2014
End of Document
Shannon sees 9 new air routes this week; Shannon Grows
Shannon sees 9 new air routes this week; Shannon Grows
Business World (Digest)
March 31, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 239 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport will enter significant growth mode this week as nine new routes commence in five days 
in a major boost for tourism and business.
Body
Shannon Airport will enter significant growth mode this week as nine new routes commence in five days in a major 
boost for tourism and business.
Less than 15 months after the airport was made independent, Shannon will enjoy its biggest week in almost a 
decade in terms of new route start-ups as Ryanair launches new services, to Munich, Paris, Faro, Warsaw, Krakow, 
Nice, Poitiers, Berlin, Fuerteventura, while Aer Lingus Regional kicks-off a new Bristol service.
The 2014 summer season, which officially begins in April, will see 16 service enhancements at Shannon, including 
the nine new routes. Among the enhanced services is the now year-round Aer Lingus New York service which 
commenced yesterday, Sunday. This will be a six times weekly service and is the first time Aer Lingus will have 
operated year-round on New York since 2009.
Aer Lingus also yesterday started a new twice weekly Malaga service, which will add to the significantly expanded 
European network to and from the airport this year. Speaking today, Shannon Airport CEO Neil Pakey said that the 
coming five days are very encouraging for Shannon. "This week is a turning point for Shannon. Not since 2005 has 
Shannon had a week like this in terms of new routes starting up and we see this as a real reward for the loyalty of 
our passengers across Ireland They now have excellent choice from Shannon with 37 attractive destinations in 
Europe, the UK and North America."
Load-Date: April 1, 2014
End of Document
Shannon sees 9 new air routes this week Shannon Grows
Shannon sees 9 new air routes this week; Shannon Grows
Business World (Digest)
March 31, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 239 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport will enter significant growth mode this week as nine new routes commence in five days 
in a major boost for tourism and business.
Body
Shannon Airport will enter significant growth mode this week as nine new routes commence in five days in a major 
boost for tourism and business.
Less than 15 months after the airport was made independent, Shannon will enjoy its biggest week in almost a 
decade in terms of new route start-ups as Ryanair launches new services, to Munich, Paris, Faro, Warsaw, Krakow, 
Nice, Poitiers, Berlin, Fuerteventura, while Aer Lingus Regional kicks-off a new Bristol service.
The 2014 summer season, which officially begins in April, will see 16 service enhancements at Shannon, including 
the nine new routes. Among the enhanced services is the now year-round Aer Lingus New York service which 
commenced yesterday, Sunday. This will be a six times weekly service and is the first time Aer Lingus will have 
operated year-round on New York since 2009.
Aer Lingus also yesterday started a new twice weekly Malaga service, which will add to the significantly expanded 
European network to and from the airport this year. Speaking today, Shannon Airport CEO Neil Pakey said that the 
coming five days are very encouraging for Shannon. "This week is a turning point for Shannon. Not since 2005 has 
Shannon had a week like this in terms of new routes starting up and we see this as a real reward for the loyalty of 
our passengers across Ireland They now have excellent choice from Shannon with 37 attractive destinations in 
Europe, the UK and North America."
Load-Date: April 2, 2014
End of Document
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow No Travel Tax
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow; No Travel Tax
Business World (Digest)
March 31, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 298 words
Highlight: Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport Leo Varadkar has marked the reduction of the air travel tax to 
zero and welcomed the response of the airlines to the Government's move in the last Budget.
Body
Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport Leo Varadkar has marked the reduction of the air travel tax to zero and 
welcomed the response of the airlines to the Government's move in the last Budget.
"Following the general election this Government said it would cut the air travel tax to zero if the airlines were willing 
to increase capacity on our key access routes. The airlines have responded with more than 20 new flights into 
Ireland and increased capacity on existing routes. That is why we are fulfilling that commitment this week," he said.
"2013, the year of The Gathering, was the best year for inbound tourism since 2008. I intend 2014 to be even better 
thanks to the Wild Atlantic Way, better value for money and competitive and direct air access. My focus as Minister 
for Transport, Tourism and Sport is to generate even more direct air and ferry services into Ireland in the years 
ahead."
Niall Gibbons, CEO of Tourism Ireland, said that the reduction of the air travel tax to zero is really good news for 
tourism to Ireland. "As an island destination, direct and convenient access services, as well as competitive airfares, 
are vital to our future tourism success. And we know that value for money remains a major factor for people 
everywhere when choosing a holiday destination. In addition to new Aer Lingus services from San Francisco and 
Toronto, as well as extended services from Etihad and Emirates later this year, it is wonderful to see new Ryanair 
flights starting in April, from important tourism markets like France and Germany. Tourism Ireland is committed to 
working with airports, airlines, ferry operators and other tourism interests to drive demand for services from 
international markets to the island of Ireland and to help maintain our vital network of routes."
Load-Date: April 2, 2014
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow No Travel Tax
End of Document
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow No Travel Tax
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow; No Travel Tax
Business World (Digest)
March 31, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 298 words
Highlight: Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport Leo Varadkar has marked the reduction of the air travel tax to 
zero and welcomed the response of the airlines to the Government's move in the last Budget.
Body
Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport Leo Varadkar has marked the reduction of the air travel tax to zero and 
welcomed the response of the airlines to the Government's move in the last Budget.
"Following the general election this Government said it would cut the air travel tax to zero if the airlines were willing 
to increase capacity on our key access routes. The airlines have responded with more than 20 new flights into 
Ireland and increased capacity on existing routes. That is why we are fulfilling that commitment this week," he said.
"2013, the year of The Gathering, was the best year for inbound tourism since 2008. I intend 2014 to be even better 
thanks to the Wild Atlantic Way, better value for money and competitive and direct air access. My focus as Minister 
for Transport, Tourism and Sport is to generate even more direct air and ferry services into Ireland in the years 
ahead."
Niall Gibbons, CEO of Tourism Ireland, said that the reduction of the air travel tax to zero is really good news for 
tourism to Ireland. "As an island destination, direct and convenient access services, as well as competitive airfares, 
are vital to our future tourism success. And we know that value for money remains a major factor for people 
everywhere when choosing a holiday destination. In addition to new Aer Lingus services from San Francisco and 
Toronto, as well as extended services from Etihad and Emirates later this year, it is wonderful to see new Ryanair 
flights starting in April, from important tourism markets like France and Germany. Tourism Ireland is committed to 
working with airports, airlines, ferry operators and other tourism interests to drive demand for services from 
international markets to the island of Ireland and to help maintain our vital network of routes."
Load-Date: April 1, 2014
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow No Travel Tax
End of Document
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow No Travel Tax
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow; No Travel Tax
Business World (Digest)
March 31, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 298 words
Highlight: Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport Leo Varadkar has marked the reduction of the air travel tax to 
zero and welcomed the response of the airlines to the Government's move in the last Budget.
Body
Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport Leo Varadkar has marked the reduction of the air travel tax to zero and 
welcomed the response of the airlines to the Government's move in the last Budget.
"Following the general election this Government said it would cut the air travel tax to zero if the airlines were willing 
to increase capacity on our key access routes. The airlines have responded with more than 20 new flights into 
Ireland and increased capacity on existing routes. That is why we are fulfilling that commitment this week," he said.
"2013, the year of The Gathering, was the best year for inbound tourism since 2008. I intend 2014 to be even better 
thanks to the Wild Atlantic Way, better value for money and competitive and direct air access. My focus as Minister 
for Transport, Tourism and Sport is to generate even more direct air and ferry services into Ireland in the years 
ahead."
Niall Gibbons, CEO of Tourism Ireland, said that the reduction of the air travel tax to zero is really good news for 
tourism to Ireland. "As an island destination, direct and convenient access services, as well as competitive airfares, 
are vital to our future tourism success. And we know that value for money remains a major factor for people 
everywhere when choosing a holiday destination. In addition to new Aer Lingus services from San Francisco and 
Toronto, as well as extended services from Etihad and Emirates later this year, it is wonderful to see new Ryanair 
flights starting in April, from important tourism markets like France and Germany. Tourism Ireland is committed to 
working with airports, airlines, ferry operators and other tourism interests to drive demand for services from 
international markets to the island of Ireland and to help maintain our vital network of routes."
Load-Date: March 31, 2014
Air travel tax axed from tomorrow No Travel Tax
End of Document
Passenger numbers up with airlines opening new routes
Passenger numbers up with airlines opening new routes
Sunday Business Post
March 30, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 290 words
Body
Passenger numbers at Dublin Airport are up by almost 10 per cent for the first two months of 2014.
An extra 210,000 passengers -- on both inbound and outbound flights -- used the airport during January and 
February, traditionally seen as the off-peak travel season.
Flights between Britain and Ireland -- a mature and established market -- jumped by 15 per during the same period, 
compared to last year.
Transatlantic flight passenger numbers were also up by 5 per cent, as were passengers to and from mainland 
Europe. Flights to Middle East hubs Dubai and Abu Dhabi -- served by Emirates and Etihad Airlines -- were up by 4 
per cent. However, the figures at Cork Airport showed a dip of 5 per cent in its passenger numbers.
Next week will be one of the most significant in Shannon Airport's history -- where passenger numbers are 
marginally up on last year -- when new services will be launched from the Midwest airport. These include Ryanair 
services to Munich, Paris, Faro, Warsaw, Krakow, Nice, Poitiers, Berlin and Fuerteventura. Aer Lingus Regional will 
begin a service from shannon to Bristol.
At Dublin Airport next Wednesday, meanwhile, Aer Lingus will launch its new direct service to San Francisco, which 
will operate five times a week.
DAA (Dublin Airport Authority) spokeswoman Siobhan O'Donnell said the increased passenger numbers, and new 
routes, indicated that the ''beginning of the Irish economy's stabilisation was ''bringing more confidence to the 
market.
''The UK is one of our biggest markets, so the improvement in both economies is bearing fruit, O'Donnell said.
''There is also huge competition between the airlines now, which really benefits customers. Aer Lingus are firing out 
loads of sale offers, and the same for Ryanair.
Passenger numbers up with airlines opening new routes
Load-Date: March 30, 2014
End of Document
O'Leary: swear it again?
O'Leary: swear it again?
Sunday Business Post
March 30, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 794 words
Body
A mere three fucks and two shits. Ryanair has indeed changed - or, at least, its colourful chief executive has.
The presence of just five expletives in an entire press conference last week suggests that Michael O'Leary is taking 
his newfound role as the world's cuddliest airline boss very seriously indeed. His past press conferences would 
have featured single sentences containing that number of colourful phrases.
The first slide of the presentation of the new ''Ryanair Experience underlined the message: an impossibly coy-
looking O'Leary cuddling an equally impossibly cute labrador pup, straight out of the Andrex ad. Was Ryanair about 
to start charging for toilet paper too? Not a chance.
This is the new Ryanair, after all, where seats are assigned, a second bag is free, and families will soon be able to 
pre-book seats together. A business class offering is just months away.
All in all, it's a remarkable transformation for an airline that has long placed cost-cutting high above passenger 
comfort in its list of priorities. A 5 per cent jump in advance bookings for the coming months suggests that 
passengers already like what they see.
The broad smiles on the faces of the 60 or so journalists who gathered in London's swanky Design Museum last 
week might have been due to the free bar plus a tasty lunch of sea bass, pumpkin risotto and Prosecco, in itself a 
remarkable turnaround in Ryanair's media strategy. But, without doubt, something very real and tangible is 
happening at the airline.
Sources say that the roots of the transformation began long before a series of profit warnings last year put the 
challenges that Ryanair faced in sharp focus. At a town hall-style meeting of staff more than a year ago, O'Leary 
faced major criticism about the airline's sometimes senseless and belligerent approach to customer service. Check-
in staff, for example, hated rules that forced them to take a hardline approach with passengers on baggage size, 
leading to endless conflict during the working day.
O'Leary: swear it again?
The new, more relaxed approach is said to have gone down well with staff as well as passengers. Happier staff 
mean more smiles for passengers. Plush new offices in Swords - including a games room - have helped to 
generate a feeling of positive transition. Even the infamous charity calendar may be axed to improve the airline's 
image, said one source.
The next stage of the transformation, and the main reason for the glitzy London event, is a complete revamp of its 
marketing and digital offering. A new website goes live next week, with a brand new app to follow.
So great is the improvement that the airline believes it will be a key driver of growth from the current level of just 
over 80 million passengers per annum to 110 million in five years, helping to fill the 175 new planes it has on order.
O'Leary stood back while new chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs, did a run through of the slick new site. Jacobs, 
who previously worked on marketing with Tesco, has helped bring a whole new focus on the power of digital. 
Inspiration has been taken from companies such as Amazon and Google, rather than from anything to be found in 
the aviation sector, and Ryanair passengers who are happy to provide personal data online can look forward to a 
whole new level of interaction with the airline.
So, is O'Leary himself past his sell-by date at Ryanair? His bullish approach has long personified a less than 
customer-friendly approach. Sources suggest that the airline has at least considered the downsides of its brand 
being so tightly aligned to the character of one controversial individual. Was that the reason behind the new nice 
guy image, he was asked by journalists seeking colourful quotes at the London event?
''It's not an image. It's real. I've always been a nice guy, just misunderstood, he shot back, while a string quartet 
played in the background and a scrum of reporters strained to catch every utterance.
Perhaps it was the Prosecco wearing off, but it did not take long for the old O'Leary to reassert himself. Would he 
have any interest in a career in politics, asked one journalist?
''I would never consider it, he said, ''because I would be too busy telling people what I really thought of them and 
trying to get things done, which would make you unelectable in Ireland. If you tell people the truth in Ireland, they 
never vote for you.
From the other side of the room, Kenny Jacobs looked on in admiration. He agreed that O'Leary would probably 
begin to slip into the background from a brand point of view.
''But as the person responsible for looking after the brand, I have at my disposal a great chief executive who is 
Kryptonite. Jacobs said. ''As the marketing guy, I am delighted to have a chief executive who is a celebrity and a 
rock star.
Load-Date: March 30, 2014
End of Document
Roundup- Ryanair looks to issue Bonds News Roundup
Roundup-Ryanair looks to issue Bonds; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
March 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 559 words
Highlight: Shoppers at Ikea's Irish store in Dublin last year spent almost E2 million per week on home furnishings 
leading to the store almost doubling pretax profits to E5.8 million.
Body
Shoppers at Ikea's Irish store in Dublin last year spent almost E2 million per week on home furnishings leading to 
the store almost doubling pretax profits to E5.8 million.
New accounts just filed by Ikea Ireland Ltd show that the firm increased its pretax profits by 96 per cent from E2.97 
million to E5.8 million in the 12 months to the end of August 31st last.
Consumer spending on best-selling Ikea items such as Billy bookcases, Expedit storage units and Lack tables 
resulted in revenues at Ikea's Ballymun store last year increasing marginally from E102.6 million to E103.98 million. 
The 2013 performance represents a turnaround in terms of the store's profitability after the business saw a steady 
decline in pretax profits from E11.4 million in its first full year of operation in 2010 to E2.97 million in 2012.
The Dublin outlet - which is equivalent in space to 5 1/2 soccer pitches - contains 9,000 home furnishings, a 550-
seater restaurant, a food hall and creche along with 1,850 car-parking spaces. The Irish Times XXXX UK specialist 
coffee retailer Caffe Nero is planning to invest E20 million in Ireland over the next five years to open 40 stores and 
create up to 350 new jobs.Founder and majority shareholder Gerry Ford said that this was a show of "faith" in the 
Irish economic story and a strong signal of its long-term intentions for this market. "We've been looking at Ireland for 
several years but we're only really now beginning to feel comfortable with our international expansion," he said. 
"We'll open about eight to 10 stores a year in Ireland." The company will open a cafe in Boston next month, its first 
venture into the United States. This will bring to seven the number of countries where it has operations.He said 
Caffe Nero would offer a European-style coffee house experience in Ireland, serving top quality coffee, "fresh, deli-
style food" and a relaxed atmosphere that would prove attractive to families, professionals and retired people. The 
Irish Times XXXX Ryanair is likely to raise between E500m and E1bn in its first-ever bond issue, the airline's boss, 
Michael O'Leary has told the Irish Independent.The bond, which would be used to help finance the airline's current 
order for 175 aircraft, would be a major departure for Ryanair, which has not previously accessed capital markets 
Roundup- Ryanair looks to issue Bonds News Roundup
on its own. Last week, Ryanair received its first-ever corporate credit rating, from Standard and Poor's. It rated the 
airline BBB+, making it the highest-rated airline in the world. Ryanair placed a 175-aircraft order with Boeing last 
year. It will increase the airline's fleet to more than 400 and enable it to achieve a target of carrying 110 million 
passengers by 2019, compared to the 81.5 million it carried last year. The Irish Independent XXXX The daughter of 
an Irish construction magnate has announced her resignation from the helm of her late father's empire. But Caroline 
Murphy (31) wants to turn the company founded by her father, one of Britain's most successful building firms, into a 
workers' co-operative and has committed her 20pc share to this end. John Murphy, who was from Loughmark, near 
Cahirsiveen in Co Kerry, emigrated to London in the 1930s when he was 15. In a rags-to-riches tale, at the time of 
his death in May 2009, at the age of 95, he had amassed an estimated fortune of E230m. The Irish Independent
Load-Date: March 31, 2014
End of Document
Roundup- Ryanair looks to issue Bonds News Roundup
Roundup-Ryanair looks to issue Bonds; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
March 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 559 words
Highlight: Shoppers at Ikea's Irish store in Dublin last year spent almost E2 million per week on home furnishings 
leading to the store almost doubling pretax profits to E5.8 million.
Body
Shoppers at Ikea's Irish store in Dublin last year spent almost E2 million per week on home furnishings leading to 
the store almost doubling pretax profits to E5.8 million.
New accounts just filed by Ikea Ireland Ltd show that the firm increased its pretax profits by 96 per cent from E2.97 
million to E5.8 million in the 12 months to the end of August 31st last.
Consumer spending on best-selling Ikea items such as Billy bookcases, Expedit storage units and Lack tables 
resulted in revenues at Ikea's Ballymun store last year increasing marginally from E102.6 million to E103.98 million. 
The 2013 performance represents a turnaround in terms of the store's profitability after the business saw a steady 
decline in pretax profits from E11.4 million in its first full year of operation in 2010 to E2.97 million in 2012.
The Dublin outlet - which is equivalent in space to 5 1/2 soccer pitches - contains 9,000 home furnishings, a 550-
seater restaurant, a food hall and creche along with 1,850 car-parking spaces. The Irish Times XXXX UK specialist 
coffee retailer Caffe Nero is planning to invest E20 million in Ireland over the next five years to open 40 stores and 
create up to 350 new jobs.Founder and majority shareholder Gerry Ford said that this was a show of "faith" in the 
Irish economic story and a strong signal of its long-term intentions for this market. "We've been looking at Ireland for 
several years but we're only really now beginning to feel comfortable with our international expansion," he said. 
"We'll open about eight to 10 stores a year in Ireland." The company will open a cafe in Boston next month, its first 
venture into the United States. This will bring to seven the number of countries where it has operations.He said 
Caffe Nero would offer a European-style coffee house experience in Ireland, serving top quality coffee, "fresh, deli-
style food" and a relaxed atmosphere that would prove attractive to families, professionals and retired people. The 
Irish Times XXXX Ryanair is likely to raise between E500m and E1bn in its first-ever bond issue, the airline's boss, 
Michael O'Leary has told the Irish Independent.The bond, which would be used to help finance the airline's current 
order for 175 aircraft, would be a major departure for Ryanair, which has not previously accessed capital markets 
Roundup- Ryanair looks to issue Bonds News Roundup
on its own. Last week, Ryanair received its first-ever corporate credit rating, from Standard and Poor's. It rated the 
airline BBB+, making it the highest-rated airline in the world. Ryanair placed a 175-aircraft order with Boeing last 
year. It will increase the airline's fleet to more than 400 and enable it to achieve a target of carrying 110 million 
passengers by 2019, compared to the 81.5 million it carried last year. The Irish Independent XXXX The daughter of 
an Irish construction magnate has announced her resignation from the helm of her late father's empire. But Caroline 
Murphy (31) wants to turn the company founded by her father, one of Britain's most successful building firms, into a 
workers' co-operative and has committed her 20pc share to this end. John Murphy, who was from Loughmark, near 
Cahirsiveen in Co Kerry, emigrated to London in the 1930s when he was 15. In a rags-to-riches tale, at the time of 
his death in May 2009, at the age of 95, he had amassed an estimated fortune of E230m. The Irish Independent
Load-Date: March 28, 2014
End of Document
Roundup- Ryanair looks to issue Bonds News Roundup
Roundup-Ryanair looks to issue Bonds; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
March 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 559 words
Highlight: Shoppers at Ikea's Irish store in Dublin last year spent almost E2 million per week on home furnishings 
leading to the store almost doubling pretax profits to E5.8 million.
Body
Shoppers at Ikea's Irish store in Dublin last year spent almost E2 million per week on home furnishings leading to 
the store almost doubling pretax profits to E5.8 million.
New accounts just filed by Ikea Ireland Ltd show that the firm increased its pretax profits by 96 per cent from E2.97 
million to E5.8 million in the 12 months to the end of August 31st last.
Consumer spending on best-selling Ikea items such as Billy bookcases, Expedit storage units and Lack tables 
resulted in revenues at Ikea's Ballymun store last year increasing marginally from E102.6 million to E103.98 million. 
The 2013 performance represents a turnaround in terms of the store's profitability after the business saw a steady 
decline in pretax profits from E11.4 million in its first full year of operation in 2010 to E2.97 million in 2012.
The Dublin outlet - which is equivalent in space to 5 1/2 soccer pitches - contains 9,000 home furnishings, a 550-
seater restaurant, a food hall and creche along with 1,850 car-parking spaces. The Irish Times XXXX UK specialist 
coffee retailer Caffe Nero is planning to invest E20 million in Ireland over the next five years to open 40 stores and 
create up to 350 new jobs.Founder and majority shareholder Gerry Ford said that this was a show of "faith" in the 
Irish economic story and a strong signal of its long-term intentions for this market. "We've been looking at Ireland for 
several years but we're only really now beginning to feel comfortable with our international expansion," he said. 
"We'll open about eight to 10 stores a year in Ireland." The company will open a cafe in Boston next month, its first 
venture into the United States. This will bring to seven the number of countries where it has operations.He said 
Caffe Nero would offer a European-style coffee house experience in Ireland, serving top quality coffee, "fresh, deli-
style food" and a relaxed atmosphere that would prove attractive to families, professionals and retired people. The 
Irish Times XXXX Ryanair is likely to raise between E500m and E1bn in its first-ever bond issue, the airline's boss, 
Michael O'Leary has told the Irish Independent.The bond, which would be used to help finance the airline's current 
order for 175 aircraft, would be a major departure for Ryanair, which has not previously accessed capital markets 
Roundup- Ryanair looks to issue Bonds News Roundup
on its own. Last week, Ryanair received its first-ever corporate credit rating, from Standard and Poor's. It rated the 
airline BBB+, making it the highest-rated airline in the world. Ryanair placed a 175-aircraft order with Boeing last 
year. It will increase the airline's fleet to more than 400 and enable it to achieve a target of carrying 110 million 
passengers by 2019, compared to the 81.5 million it carried last year. The Irish Independent XXXX The daughter of 
an Irish construction magnate has announced her resignation from the helm of her late father's empire. But Caroline 
Murphy (31) wants to turn the company founded by her father, one of Britain's most successful building firms, into a 
workers' co-operative and has committed her 20pc share to this end. John Murphy, who was from Loughmark, near 
Cahirsiveen in Co Kerry, emigrated to London in the 1930s when he was 15. In a rags-to-riches tale, at the time of 
his death in May 2009, at the age of 95, he had amassed an estimated fortune of E230m. The Irish Independent
Load-Date: April 1, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ turns negative on profit taking ISEQ Falls
ISEQ turns negative on profit taking; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 27, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 231 words
Highlight: Three days of sustained gains led to a bout of profit taking this afternoon, sending the index back in to 
the red.
Body
Three days of sustained gains led to a bout of profit taking this afternoon, sending the index back in to the red.
By the close, the ISEQ was down 16.16 points to 4,968.35.
New US economic data helped buoy investor confidence. U.S. economic growth was a bit faster than previously 
estimated in the fourth quarter, displaying underlying strength that could bolster views that the slowdown in activity 
early in the year would be temporary. Also, the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly fell last week and touched its lowest level in nearly four months, suggesting the labour market was 
strengthening.
IFG shares were flat at E1.75. "IFG's 2013 results are broadly in line with our expectations and reflect its on-going 
investment spend to position James Hay for growth. Having delivered net SIPP growth in 2013, the group is at a 
key juncture as it plans to expand the business from being a solely-focused SIPP provider to being a platform with a 
broader capability in retirement investment. This will leave it better placed to benefit from the strong market growth 
expected in the aftermath of the recent budget. We will review our forecasts after this morning's briefing," said 
Davy. The day's biggest fallers were Smurfit Kappa down 53c to E18.65 and Ryanair down 10c to E7.59. The top 
gainers were Aer Lingus up 4c to E1.67 and FBD up 25c to E17.95.
Load-Date: March 27, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ turns negative on profit taking ISEQ Falls
ISEQ turns negative on profit taking; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 27, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 231 words
Highlight: Three days of sustained gains led to a bout of profit taking this afternoon, sending the index back in to 
the red.
Body
Three days of sustained gains led to a bout of profit taking this afternoon, sending the index back in to the red.
By the close, the ISEQ was down 16.16 points to 4,968.35.
New US economic data helped buoy investor confidence. U.S. economic growth was a bit faster than previously 
estimated in the fourth quarter, displaying underlying strength that could bolster views that the slowdown in activity 
early in the year would be temporary. Also, the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly fell last week and touched its lowest level in nearly four months, suggesting the labour market was 
strengthening.
IFG shares were flat at E1.75. "IFG's 2013 results are broadly in line with our expectations and reflect its on-going 
investment spend to position James Hay for growth. Having delivered net SIPP growth in 2013, the group is at a 
key juncture as it plans to expand the business from being a solely-focused SIPP provider to being a platform with a 
broader capability in retirement investment. This will leave it better placed to benefit from the strong market growth 
expected in the aftermath of the recent budget. We will review our forecasts after this morning's briefing," said 
Davy. The day's biggest fallers were Smurfit Kappa down 53c to E18.65 and Ryanair down 10c to E7.59. The top 
gainers were Aer Lingus up 4c to E1.67 and FBD up 25c to E17.95.
Load-Date: April 1, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ turns negative on profit taking ISEQ Falls
ISEQ turns negative on profit taking; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 27, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 231 words
Highlight: Three days of sustained gains led to a bout of profit taking this afternoon, sending the index back in to 
the red.
Body
Three days of sustained gains led to a bout of profit taking this afternoon, sending the index back in to the red.
By the close, the ISEQ was down 16.16 points to 4,968.35.
New US economic data helped buoy investor confidence. U.S. economic growth was a bit faster than previously 
estimated in the fourth quarter, displaying underlying strength that could bolster views that the slowdown in activity 
early in the year would be temporary. Also, the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly fell last week and touched its lowest level in nearly four months, suggesting the labour market was 
strengthening.
IFG shares were flat at E1.75. "IFG's 2013 results are broadly in line with our expectations and reflect its on-going 
investment spend to position James Hay for growth. Having delivered net SIPP growth in 2013, the group is at a 
key juncture as it plans to expand the business from being a solely-focused SIPP provider to being a platform with a 
broader capability in retirement investment. This will leave it better placed to benefit from the strong market growth 
expected in the aftermath of the recent budget. We will review our forecasts after this morning's briefing," said 
Davy. The day's biggest fallers were Smurfit Kappa down 53c to E18.65 and Ryanair down 10c to E7.59. The top 
gainers were Aer Lingus up 4c to E1.67 and FBD up 25c to E17.95.
Load-Date: March 31, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ turns negative on profit taking ISEQ Falls
ISEQ turns negative on profit taking; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 27, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 231 words
Highlight: Three days of sustained gains led to a bout of profit taking this afternoon, sending the index back in to 
the red.
Body
Three days of sustained gains led to a bout of profit taking this afternoon, sending the index back in to the red.
By the close, the ISEQ was down 16.16 points to 4,968.35.
New US economic data helped buoy investor confidence. U.S. economic growth was a bit faster than previously 
estimated in the fourth quarter, displaying underlying strength that could bolster views that the slowdown in activity 
early in the year would be temporary. Also, the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly fell last week and touched its lowest level in nearly four months, suggesting the labour market was 
strengthening.
IFG shares were flat at E1.75. "IFG's 2013 results are broadly in line with our expectations and reflect its on-going 
investment spend to position James Hay for growth. Having delivered net SIPP growth in 2013, the group is at a 
key juncture as it plans to expand the business from being a solely-focused SIPP provider to being a platform with a 
broader capability in retirement investment. This will leave it better placed to benefit from the strong market growth 
expected in the aftermath of the recent budget. We will review our forecasts after this morning's briefing," said 
Davy. The day's biggest fallers were Smurfit Kappa down 53c to E18.65 and Ryanair down 10c to E7.59. The top 
gainers were Aer Lingus up 4c to E1.67 and FBD up 25c to E17.95.
Load-Date: March 28, 2014
End of Document
Google launch Flight Search in Ireland Flight Search
Google launch Flight Search in Ireland; Flight Search
Business World (Digest)
March 27, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Highlight: Google today announced that its Flight Search tool has launched in Ireland.
Body
Google today announced that its Flight Search tool has launched in Ireland.
Irish users will now be able to compare flight times and prices directly from the Google search results page.
Irish travellers will also be able to click through to the Flight Search website (www.google.ie/flights) and conduct 
more advanced searches.
Ryanair and Aer Lingus will both be represented in Flight Search on Google. Cera Ward, Country Manager Large 
Customer Sales, Google Ireland said: "Traveling is fun and we think the research behind the journey should be fun 
too. We want Irish travelers to be able to search, compare and book their flights as quickly and efficiently as 
possible and we want them to enjoy the process too. That is why we have developed a flight search tool which is 
interactive and easy to use as well as working hard to build relationships with many different airlines across the 
world." Declan Kearney, Aer Lingus Director of Communications said: "Aer Lingus is delighted to partner with 
Google on Google Flight Search. Airlines today need to offer customers as many flight and service options as 
possible, so we're excited about this new way of connecting customers with our great value fares. Today to coincide 
with the launch in Ireland we're offering E20 off a return fare to Europe for travel in May while flights to the USA are 
from E269 (each way) and Canada from E239 each way in May."
Load-Date: March 28, 2014
End of Document
Google launch Flight Search in Ireland Flight Search
Google launch Flight Search in Ireland; Flight Search
Business World (Digest)
March 27, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Highlight: Google today announced that its Flight Search tool has launched in Ireland.
Body
Google today announced that its Flight Search tool has launched in Ireland.
Irish users will now be able to compare flight times and prices directly from the Google search results page.
Irish travellers will also be able to click through to the Flight Search website (www.google.ie/flights) and conduct 
more advanced searches.
Ryanair and Aer Lingus will both be represented in Flight Search on Google. Cera Ward, Country Manager Large 
Customer Sales, Google Ireland said: "Traveling is fun and we think the research behind the journey should be fun 
too. We want Irish travelers to be able to search, compare and book their flights as quickly and efficiently as 
possible and we want them to enjoy the process too. That is why we have developed a flight search tool which is 
interactive and easy to use as well as working hard to build relationships with many different airlines across the 
world." Declan Kearney, Aer Lingus Director of Communications said: "Aer Lingus is delighted to partner with 
Google on Google Flight Search. Airlines today need to offer customers as many flight and service options as 
possible, so we're excited about this new way of connecting customers with our great value fares. Today to coincide 
with the launch in Ireland we're offering E20 off a return fare to Europe for travel in May while flights to the USA are 
from E269 (each way) and Canada from E239 each way in May."
Load-Date: March 27, 2014
End of Document
Google launch Flight Search in Ireland Flight Search
Google launch Flight Search in Ireland; Flight Search
Business World (Digest)
March 27, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Highlight: Google today announced that its Flight Search tool has launched in Ireland.
Body
Google today announced that its Flight Search tool has launched in Ireland.
Irish users will now be able to compare flight times and prices directly from the Google search results page.
Irish travellers will also be able to click through to the Flight Search website (www.google.ie/flights) and conduct 
more advanced searches.
Ryanair and Aer Lingus will both be represented in Flight Search on Google. Cera Ward, Country Manager Large 
Customer Sales, Google Ireland said: "Traveling is fun and we think the research behind the journey should be fun 
too. We want Irish travelers to be able to search, compare and book their flights as quickly and efficiently as 
possible and we want them to enjoy the process too. That is why we have developed a flight search tool which is 
interactive and easy to use as well as working hard to build relationships with many different airlines across the 
world." Declan Kearney, Aer Lingus Director of Communications said: "Aer Lingus is delighted to partner with 
Google on Google Flight Search. Airlines today need to offer customers as many flight and service options as 
possible, so we're excited about this new way of connecting customers with our great value fares. Today to coincide 
with the launch in Ireland we're offering E20 off a return fare to Europe for travel in May while flights to the USA are 
from E269 (each way) and Canada from E239 each way in May."
Load-Date: March 31, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair seeks more love, less hate from customers
Ryanair seeks more love, less hate from customers
Associated Press Financial Wire
March 26, 2014 Wednesday 9:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 838 words
Byline: SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
LONDON (AP) - Michael O'Leary knows full well that many people consider him a provocative jerk and his 
European juggernaut of an airline, Ryanair, an exercise in frustration.
Now he wants you to meet the cuddly new Mick.
Ryanair last year carried more than 81 million people to 186 destinations, bigger than any European rival. It's 
positioned to record fiscal 2014 net profits above 500 million euros ($690 million).
But O'Leary says his company has taken a hard look in the mirror - and decided that, to keep up its industry-leading 
growth rate, Ryanair can no longer be seen as merely the cheapest option for travelers. It must become 
comfortable, easy, maybe even enjoyable to use.
"We have been needlessly irritating people, from our creaking old website to our interrogation of passengers over 
the size of their purses," O'Leary told The Associated Press during a media briefing in London. "For 20-odd years, 
our focus has been to stack the product high and sell it cheap. We're still going to do that, but we're going to let the 
customer relax in the process,"
Customers have good reason to be skeptical.
Search for "Ryanair" on the Internet and a flood of customer complaints pop up. They range from the airline's 
brushoff of complaints to its refusal of compensation claims, its ambush charges on first-time customers, its 
labyrinthine website menus and opt-out traps that impose surprise extra charges.
But during an hour-long presentation to European media highlighting his reform plans, O'Leary insisted his airline 
was changing both in style and substance.
For laughs, he displayed a picture of himself cuddling a puppy.
"When I go around saying mea culpa, mea maxima culpa, I'm sorry for what I've done wrong - well, this generates 
huge publicity ... Is it just a PR stunt?" he asked.
Ryanair seeks more love, less hate from customers
As usual with O'Leary, it's a heady mix of both. Ryanair is making real and sudden changes, driven by a new 
interest in meeting the long-unfulfilled demands of customers:
- Out are strict enforcement of bag weights and sizes, and punitive fees for even minor size infractions. In is a new 
two-bag carry-on policy that permits people to shop in airport terminals without fear of punishment at the boarding 
gate.
- Out are long, wearying queues for passengers seeking better seats on planes that have no seat assignments. In 
are automatic seat bookings.
- Out is a maze-like company website that O'Leary himself said makes "me lose the will to live."
O'Leary has shifted from his own headline-generating chatter - Why not charge people to use the toilet? he once 
asked - to focus on new initiatives to build Ryanair's base of operations in Europe's main business airports and to 
offer price discounts to families booking together.
Ryanair's biggest change is how it plans to sell itself. For more than a decade, it's embraced the Internet and cut 
out travel agents, insisting that customers use its Web site only. It also never spent a dime on TV ads.
Now Ryanair's website is about to change radically, with a new ability to pinpoint the cheapest ticket to any 
destination up to a year in advance, an improvement that will be highlighted in a first-ever TV campaign. Until now, 
such an effort might have taken hours and ended in confusion or failure.
Ryanair also is partnering with Google to permit its fares to be searched openly on the Internet, another step the 
airline long fought in courtroom battles. Travel agents, in turn, will be encouraged to use the Google Flight Plan 
database to buy Ryanair services when organizing package holidays.
O'Leary said Ryanair's no-frills business model was recession-proof but as the continent slowly returns to growth 
the airline can expand more rapidly by rewarding its customers with targeted discounts using a new personalized 
loyalty program.
His goal is to keep building what is already, by many measures, Europe's biggest and most successful airline in an 
era of rising competition with budget rivals.
Standard & Poor's rates Ryanair the best investment in the airline industry and shares have climbed this month 
above 7.50 euros ($10.50), a modern high and 50 percent better than a year ago.
O'Leary said his company would keep growing regardless of whether it treats customers better - but he thinks 
there's opportunities for bigger, faster growth with improved service. He wants to reach 110 million passengers by 
2019, and plans to expand his all-Boeing 737 fleet from 300 to 400 in the process.
"We'll grow to 110 million increasingly from business and travel agency distribution," he said. "The travel agents will 
put together very low cost packages and Ryanair will become a key part of that pricing."
O'Leary said he marvels at the fact that - despite a decade of treating customers like cattle and handling complaints 
with combativeness - Ryanair still has triumphed.
"Just imagine how many more people we're going to carry and how much more money we're going to make when 
we give customers more of what they want," he said, adding that "as 4 percent shareholder, I hope to gain 
handsomely from it."
Load-Date: March 27, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades ISEQ Up
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 343 words
Highlight: The ISEQ recouped much of the losses it incurred over a four day slump today as investors sought out 
bargains and pressure lifted from the crisis in Ukraine and as China and the ECB talked about economic stimulus.
Body
The ISEQ recouped much of the losses it incurred over a four day slump today as investors sought out bargains 
and pressure lifted from the crisis in Ukraine and as China and the ECB talked about economic stimulus.
By the close, the index was up 73.49 points to 4,924.02.
European stocks bounced back, led by miners on speculation that recent disappointing Chinese data might prompt 
Beijing to launch fresh stimulus to maintain the pace of economic growth. Encouraging updates from companies 
such as Europe's largest home improvements retailer Kingfisher and British budget airline easyJet also bolstered 
market sentiment.
Shares in Ryanair rose 20c to E7.63 while Aer Lingus dipped 1c to E1.64. Shares in Datalex jumped 7c to E1.37 
after it today posted a 26pc rise in core profits (adjusted EBITDA) to USD7.5m and said it will propose the payment 
of its first ever dividend to shareholders. In its full year 2013, the company recorded revenue that rose 18pc to 
USdollar 38.1m and Transaction revenue that rose 19pc to USdollar 17.5m while net profits climbed 43pc to 
USD1.6m and earnings per share rose 41pc to 2.4 cent. Aidan Brogan, CEO of Datalex plc said: "2013 has been a 
year of performance and growth in our business, as we continue to achieve double digit percentage growth in 
Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and cash. We have signed significant new contracts with leading airline brands, such as 
JetBlue and Virgin Atlantic which secure transaction revenue growth in the medium term. As a strong statement of 
confidence in the company's growth prospects, I am also pleased to report that the Board has proposed the 
payment of the first dividend in the company's history." Glanbia shares rose 3c to E10.93. Globally, cheese prices 
have been moving higher even as other prices retreat from their recent highs. Very strong US cheese exports over 
recent months have reduced domestic inventories and pushed up the price, assisting cheese manufacturers to 
cope with high milk prices; there is no windfall gain for manufacturers in the current situation, Davy said.
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 27, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades ISEQ Up
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 343 words
Highlight: The ISEQ recouped much of the losses it incurred over a four day slump today as investors sought out 
bargains and pressure lifted from the crisis in Ukraine and as China and the ECB talked about economic stimulus.
Body
The ISEQ recouped much of the losses it incurred over a four day slump today as investors sought out bargains 
and pressure lifted from the crisis in Ukraine and as China and the ECB talked about economic stimulus.
By the close, the index was up 73.49 points to 4,924.02.
European stocks bounced back, led by miners on speculation that recent disappointing Chinese data might prompt 
Beijing to launch fresh stimulus to maintain the pace of economic growth. Encouraging updates from companies 
such as Europe's largest home improvements retailer Kingfisher and British budget airline easyJet also bolstered 
market sentiment.
Shares in Ryanair rose 20c to E7.63 while Aer Lingus dipped 1c to E1.64. Shares in Datalex jumped 7c to E1.37 
after it today posted a 26pc rise in core profits (adjusted EBITDA) to USD7.5m and said it will propose the payment 
of its first ever dividend to shareholders. In its full year 2013, the company recorded revenue that rose 18pc to 
USdollar 38.1m and Transaction revenue that rose 19pc to USdollar 17.5m while net profits climbed 43pc to 
USD1.6m and earnings per share rose 41pc to 2.4 cent. Aidan Brogan, CEO of Datalex plc said: "2013 has been a 
year of performance and growth in our business, as we continue to achieve double digit percentage growth in 
Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and cash. We have signed significant new contracts with leading airline brands, such as 
JetBlue and Virgin Atlantic which secure transaction revenue growth in the medium term. As a strong statement of 
confidence in the company's growth prospects, I am also pleased to report that the Board has proposed the 
payment of the first dividend in the company's history." Glanbia shares rose 3c to E10.93. Globally, cheese prices 
have been moving higher even as other prices retreat from their recent highs. Very strong US cheese exports over 
recent months have reduced domestic inventories and pushed up the price, assisting cheese manufacturers to 
cope with high milk prices; there is no windfall gain for manufacturers in the current situation, Davy said.
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 26, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades ISEQ Up
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 343 words
Highlight: The ISEQ recouped much of the losses it incurred over a four day slump today as investors sought out 
bargains and pressure lifted from the crisis in Ukraine and as China and the ECB talked about economic stimulus.
Body
The ISEQ recouped much of the losses it incurred over a four day slump today as investors sought out bargains 
and pressure lifted from the crisis in Ukraine and as China and the ECB talked about economic stimulus.
By the close, the index was up 73.49 points to 4,924.02.
European stocks bounced back, led by miners on speculation that recent disappointing Chinese data might prompt 
Beijing to launch fresh stimulus to maintain the pace of economic growth. Encouraging updates from companies 
such as Europe's largest home improvements retailer Kingfisher and British budget airline easyJet also bolstered 
market sentiment.
Shares in Ryanair rose 20c to E7.63 while Aer Lingus dipped 1c to E1.64. Shares in Datalex jumped 7c to E1.37 
after it today posted a 26pc rise in core profits (adjusted EBITDA) to USD7.5m and said it will propose the payment 
of its first ever dividend to shareholders. In its full year 2013, the company recorded revenue that rose 18pc to 
USdollar 38.1m and Transaction revenue that rose 19pc to USdollar 17.5m while net profits climbed 43pc to 
USD1.6m and earnings per share rose 41pc to 2.4 cent. Aidan Brogan, CEO of Datalex plc said: "2013 has been a 
year of performance and growth in our business, as we continue to achieve double digit percentage growth in 
Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and cash. We have signed significant new contracts with leading airline brands, such as 
JetBlue and Virgin Atlantic which secure transaction revenue growth in the medium term. As a strong statement of 
confidence in the company's growth prospects, I am also pleased to report that the Board has proposed the 
payment of the first dividend in the company's history." Glanbia shares rose 3c to E10.93. Globally, cheese prices 
have been moving higher even as other prices retreat from their recent highs. Very strong US cheese exports over 
recent months have reduced domestic inventories and pushed up the price, assisting cheese manufacturers to 
cope with high milk prices; there is no windfall gain for manufacturers in the current situation, Davy said.
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 28, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades ISEQ Up
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 343 words
Highlight: The ISEQ recouped much of the losses it incurred over a four day slump today as investors sought out 
bargains and pressure lifted from the crisis in Ukraine and as China and the ECB talked about economic stimulus.
Body
The ISEQ recouped much of the losses it incurred over a four day slump today as investors sought out bargains 
and pressure lifted from the crisis in Ukraine and as China and the ECB talked about economic stimulus.
By the close, the index was up 73.49 points to 4,924.02.
European stocks bounced back, led by miners on speculation that recent disappointing Chinese data might prompt 
Beijing to launch fresh stimulus to maintain the pace of economic growth. Encouraging updates from companies 
such as Europe's largest home improvements retailer Kingfisher and British budget airline easyJet also bolstered 
market sentiment.
Shares in Ryanair rose 20c to E7.63 while Aer Lingus dipped 1c to E1.64. Shares in Datalex jumped 7c to E1.37 
after it today posted a 26pc rise in core profits (adjusted EBITDA) to USD7.5m and said it will propose the payment 
of its first ever dividend to shareholders. In its full year 2013, the company recorded revenue that rose 18pc to 
USdollar 38.1m and Transaction revenue that rose 19pc to USdollar 17.5m while net profits climbed 43pc to 
USD1.6m and earnings per share rose 41pc to 2.4 cent. Aidan Brogan, CEO of Datalex plc said: "2013 has been a 
year of performance and growth in our business, as we continue to achieve double digit percentage growth in 
Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and cash. We have signed significant new contracts with leading airline brands, such as 
JetBlue and Virgin Atlantic which secure transaction revenue growth in the medium term. As a strong statement of 
confidence in the company's growth prospects, I am also pleased to report that the Board has proposed the 
payment of the first dividend in the company's history." Glanbia shares rose 3c to E10.93. Globally, cheese prices 
have been moving higher even as other prices retreat from their recent highs. Very strong US cheese exports over 
recent months have reduced domestic inventories and pushed up the price, assisting cheese manufacturers to 
cope with high milk prices; there is no windfall gain for manufacturers in the current situation, Davy said.
ISEQ powers ahead in afternoon trades ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 25, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses ISEQ Up
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 324 words
Highlight: The ISEQ bounced back from yesterday's sell-off as talk of a stimulus to China's economy gained 
traction.
Body
The ISEQ bounced back from yesterday's sell-off as talk of a stimulus to China's economy gained traction.
By 12:30, the index was up 38.16 points to 4,888.69.
European stocks bounced back, led by miners on speculation that recent disappointing Chinese data might prompt 
Beijing to launch fresh stimulus to maintain the pace of economic growth. Encouraging updates from companies 
such as Europe's largest home improvements retailer Kingfisher and British budget airline easyJet also bolstered 
market sentiment.
Shares in Ryanair rose 15c to E7.57 while Aer Lingus dipped 2c to E1.63. Shares in Datalex jumped '12c to E1.42 
after it today posted a 26pc rise in core profits (adjusted EBITDA) to USD7.5m and said it will propose the payment 
of its first ever dividend to shareholders. In its full year 2013, the company recorded revenue that rose 18pc to 
USdollar 38.1m and Transaction revenue that rose 19pc to USdollar 17.5m while net profits climbed 43pc to 
USD1.6m and earnings per share rose 41pc to 2.4 cent. Aidan Brogan, CEO of Datalex plc said: "2013 has been a 
year of performance and growth in our business, as we continue to achieve double digit percentage growth in 
Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and cash. We have signed significant new contracts with leading airline brands, such as 
JetBlue and Virgin Atlantic which secure transaction revenue growth in the medium term. As a strong statement of 
confidence in the company's growth prospects, I am also pleased to report that the Board has proposed the 
payment of the first dividend in the company's history." Glanbia shares rose 3c to E10.93. Globally, cheese prices 
have been moving higher even as other prices retreat from their recent highs. Very strong US cheese exports over 
recent months have reduced domestic inventories and pushed up the price, assisting cheese manufacturers to 
cope with high milk prices; there is no windfall gain for manufacturers in the current situation, Davy said.
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 28, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses ISEQ Up
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 324 words
Highlight: The ISEQ bounced back from yesterday's sell-off as talk of a stimulus to China's economy gained 
traction.
Body
The ISEQ bounced back from yesterday's sell-off as talk of a stimulus to China's economy gained traction.
By 12:30, the index was up 38.16 points to 4,888.69.
European stocks bounced back, led by miners on speculation that recent disappointing Chinese data might prompt 
Beijing to launch fresh stimulus to maintain the pace of economic growth. Encouraging updates from companies 
such as Europe's largest home improvements retailer Kingfisher and British budget airline easyJet also bolstered 
market sentiment.
Shares in Ryanair rose 15c to E7.57 while Aer Lingus dipped 2c to E1.63. Shares in Datalex jumped '12c to E1.42 
after it today posted a 26pc rise in core profits (adjusted EBITDA) to USD7.5m and said it will propose the payment 
of its first ever dividend to shareholders. In its full year 2013, the company recorded revenue that rose 18pc to 
USdollar 38.1m and Transaction revenue that rose 19pc to USdollar 17.5m while net profits climbed 43pc to 
USD1.6m and earnings per share rose 41pc to 2.4 cent. Aidan Brogan, CEO of Datalex plc said: "2013 has been a 
year of performance and growth in our business, as we continue to achieve double digit percentage growth in 
Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and cash. We have signed significant new contracts with leading airline brands, such as 
JetBlue and Virgin Atlantic which secure transaction revenue growth in the medium term. As a strong statement of 
confidence in the company's growth prospects, I am also pleased to report that the Board has proposed the 
payment of the first dividend in the company's history." Glanbia shares rose 3c to E10.93. Globally, cheese prices 
have been moving higher even as other prices retreat from their recent highs. Very strong US cheese exports over 
recent months have reduced domestic inventories and pushed up the price, assisting cheese manufacturers to 
cope with high milk prices; there is no windfall gain for manufacturers in the current situation, Davy said.
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 26, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses ISEQ Up
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 324 words
Highlight: The ISEQ bounced back from yesterday's sell-off as talk of a stimulus to China's economy gained 
traction.
Body
The ISEQ bounced back from yesterday's sell-off as talk of a stimulus to China's economy gained traction.
By 12:30, the index was up 38.16 points to 4,888.69.
European stocks bounced back, led by miners on speculation that recent disappointing Chinese data might prompt 
Beijing to launch fresh stimulus to maintain the pace of economic growth. Encouraging updates from companies 
such as Europe's largest home improvements retailer Kingfisher and British budget airline easyJet also bolstered 
market sentiment.
Shares in Ryanair rose 15c to E7.57 while Aer Lingus dipped 2c to E1.63. Shares in Datalex jumped '12c to E1.42 
after it today posted a 26pc rise in core profits (adjusted EBITDA) to USD7.5m and said it will propose the payment 
of its first ever dividend to shareholders. In its full year 2013, the company recorded revenue that rose 18pc to 
USdollar 38.1m and Transaction revenue that rose 19pc to USdollar 17.5m while net profits climbed 43pc to 
USD1.6m and earnings per share rose 41pc to 2.4 cent. Aidan Brogan, CEO of Datalex plc said: "2013 has been a 
year of performance and growth in our business, as we continue to achieve double digit percentage growth in 
Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and cash. We have signed significant new contracts with leading airline brands, such as 
JetBlue and Virgin Atlantic which secure transaction revenue growth in the medium term. As a strong statement of 
confidence in the company's growth prospects, I am also pleased to report that the Board has proposed the 
payment of the first dividend in the company's history." Glanbia shares rose 3c to E10.93. Globally, cheese prices 
have been moving higher even as other prices retreat from their recent highs. Very strong US cheese exports over 
recent months have reduced domestic inventories and pushed up the price, assisting cheese manufacturers to 
cope with high milk prices; there is no windfall gain for manufacturers in the current situation, Davy said.
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 25, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses ISEQ Up
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 324 words
Highlight: The ISEQ bounced back from yesterday's sell-off as talk of a stimulus to China's economy gained 
traction.
Body
The ISEQ bounced back from yesterday's sell-off as talk of a stimulus to China's economy gained traction.
By 12:30, the index was up 38.16 points to 4,888.69.
European stocks bounced back, led by miners on speculation that recent disappointing Chinese data might prompt 
Beijing to launch fresh stimulus to maintain the pace of economic growth. Encouraging updates from companies 
such as Europe's largest home improvements retailer Kingfisher and British budget airline easyJet also bolstered 
market sentiment.
Shares in Ryanair rose 15c to E7.57 while Aer Lingus dipped 2c to E1.63. Shares in Datalex jumped '12c to E1.42 
after it today posted a 26pc rise in core profits (adjusted EBITDA) to USD7.5m and said it will propose the payment 
of its first ever dividend to shareholders. In its full year 2013, the company recorded revenue that rose 18pc to 
USdollar 38.1m and Transaction revenue that rose 19pc to USdollar 17.5m while net profits climbed 43pc to 
USD1.6m and earnings per share rose 41pc to 2.4 cent. Aidan Brogan, CEO of Datalex plc said: "2013 has been a 
year of performance and growth in our business, as we continue to achieve double digit percentage growth in 
Adjusted EBITDA, revenue and cash. We have signed significant new contracts with leading airline brands, such as 
JetBlue and Virgin Atlantic which secure transaction revenue growth in the medium term. As a strong statement of 
confidence in the company's growth prospects, I am also pleased to report that the Board has proposed the 
payment of the first dividend in the company's history." Glanbia shares rose 3c to E10.93. Globally, cheese prices 
have been moving higher even as other prices retreat from their recent highs. Very strong US cheese exports over 
recent months have reduced domestic inventories and pushed up the price, assisting cheese manufacturers to 
cope with high milk prices; there is no windfall gain for manufacturers in the current situation, Davy said.
ISEQ bounces back after Monday's losses ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 27, 2014
End of Document
Gatwick plays down need for big UK hub at Heathrow Demand is for short haul, says airport
Gatwick plays down need for big UK hub at Heathrow; Demand is for short 
haul, says airport
Financial Times (London, England)
March 24, 2014 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 575 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Body
Britain will have less need for a big hub airport such as Heathrow in future because of the way the aviation industry 
is evolving, Gatwick will argue this week as it prepares its case for expansion.
Both rival airports are on a shortlist drawn up by Sir Howard Davies, who is leading a panel looking at the 
controversial question of where to build another runway in the South East.
Gatwick has commissioned research to bolster its case, which it will present with the architect Sir Terry Farrell on 
Tuesday. The airport argues that it is the best site for another runway because the rise of low-cost airlines means 
Britain must set itself up to cater for short-haul flights, which are mostly into Europe.
European budget carriers such as Ryanair, easyJet and Norwegian hold the bulk of orders for short-haul aircraft 
with more than 800 outstanding - far more than network carriers such as British Airways.
The budget carriers do not fly out of Heathrow because of its high airport charges - easyJet is Gatwick's biggest 
customer, while Ryanair's London base is at Stansted - so if Heathrow were to expand, it could price those airlines 
out, said Stewart Wingate, Gatwick's chief executive.
Gatwick plays down need for big UK hub at Heathrow Demand is for short haul, says airport
"If you look at where the demand is coming from, overwhelmingly the majority of the demand is on short-haul," he 
said. "Heathrow always focuses on the most marginal of destinations and never talks about how this market 
[Europe] is going to be served."
According to Gatwick's research, a second runway there would allow 10m more passengers to fly and add 27 
destinations out of the South East by 2050 than if its rival Heathrow were to add a third runway.
Heathrow is presently the UK's only hub airport - where transferring passengers can take flights to a wide range of 
destinations.
Most growth in long-haul is projected to come from direct flights where a transfer would not be needed, according to 
Gatwick's research, produced by aviation consultancy SH&E.
It notes airlines in Asia and the Middle East have made the bulk of orders for aircraft to serve long-haul routes - 
such as the world's largest passenger airliner, the Airbus A380.
Britain's need for a hub airport will diminish, Mr Wingate claimed, because the hubs of the future would be in cities 
such as Doha, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and in China.
However, the airline alliances have previously said they would prefer to stay at Heathrow.
"It's hard to see a future where the premier UK hub airport isn't Heathrow," said Stephen Furlong, airline analyst at 
Davy. "If you polled all the world's airlines and said 'We'll give you a choice - you can grow at Gatwick or at 
Heathrow', I know what the answer would be: Heathrow."
Meanwhile, extra capacity at Heathrow could bring airport charges down and open them up to low-cost airlines, said 
Gerald Khoo, transport analyst at Liberum. "There is the question, if you add a third runway at Heathrow what 
happens to the pricing? Madrid added a runway and low-cost airlines went in."
Mr Khoo also queried the projected dominance of Middle Eastern hubs to the exclusion of Heathrow. "A Middle 
East hub won't work if you're travelling to the US," he said. "Nobody goes to Brazil or to South Africa via the Middle 
East."
The Davies commission is also assessing whether it would be feasible to build a hub airport from scratch in the 
Thames estuary, as proposed by Boris Johnson, the London mayor, and that decision is due in the next few 
months. Its final report is due next summer.
Load-Date: March 23, 2014
End of Document
Investors pump EUR 230m into hotel sector
Investors pump EUR 230m into hotel sector
Sunday Business Post
March 23, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: PROPERTY
Length: 1323 words
Body
As two Irish hotel operations signalled major fundraising plans in recent days, it looks like international buyers and 
funds will face stiffer local competition when bidding begins for more valuable hotels which are expected to come to 
the market this year.
Last Wednesday, Dalata Group floated on the Irish stock market and signalled it had raised EUR 250 million for 
hotel acquisitions. Chief executive Pat McCann also pointed out that its shareholders now include international 
investment funds which could be tapped for further funding.
If it were to buy hotels at an average price of EUR 10 million each, its war chest would fund the acquisition of up to 
25 hotels. Because of its hotel management expertise, Dalata is expected to bid for hotels which it can operate itself 
rather than go for investments on long-term leases to other operators. This may rule out some hotels, such as the 
Westin in Dublin's Westmoreland Street, which Knight Frank is expected to bring to the market later this year with a 
EUR 60 million plus price tag.
It will also be interesting to see how many of the 40 hotels which Dalata currently leases and manages, including 27 
which it operates on behalf of other owners, may go for sale on the open market where it will face competitive 
bidding.
Among its competitors may be a new Irish specialist hotel fund, Ostan Capital Partners, which is expected to have a 
EUR 70 million war chest. Its key men are Michael Butler, Declan Cassidy, formerly of Boundary Capital, as well as 
Michael Cawley, who is shortly to leave his position as deputy chief executive of Ryanair.
Furthermore, international investors and operators which have already bought Irish hotels are expected to add to 
their chains in order to achieve economies of scale.
Both hotel owners and funds are expected to target three and four-star hotels in the cities of Dublin, Cork and 
Galway, where they can benefit from a key mix of local and international, as well as business and tourist trades. 
Investors pump EUR 230m into hotel sector
However, opportunities for such purchases are becoming more limited after recent sales, says Tom Barrett of 
Savills.
Because of their more sustainable profitability, the values being paid for these types of hotels have risen over the 
last 12 months, according to Bill Morrissey of Morrisseys.
Already only three months into 2014 and the value of hotels sold or sale agreed so far is close to EUR 230 million, 
which is already more than the EUR 200 million figure notched up in 2013 when 39 sales were completed for hotels 
in Dublin and around the country. If the current trend continues, the full year figures for 2014 could reach EUR 400 
million.
John Hughes of CBRE says several large hotels are likely to be brought to the market this year as Nama, financial 
institutions and loan buyers continue to deleverage. Bank of Scotland Ireland has been more active in running down 
its Irish hotel loan book, while Nama still had exposure to 108 Irish hotels at the end of last year.
CBRE sold the 150-bedroom Jurys Inn in Limerick about three months ago for an undisclosed price after asking 
EUR 3 million. They have also gone sale agreed on the 90-bedroom River Court Hotel in Kilkenny which had been 
asking EUR 7.5 million.
The agent is currently guiding EUR 5.5 million for the Heritage Hotel, Killenard, Co Laois, a five-star hotel with 98 
bedrooms, a spa, wedding/conference and banqueting facilities. It overlooks a parkland golf course.
Meanwhile in Munster, Savills is selling a number of hotels including Charleville Park Hotel in Charleville, a four-star 
91 bedroom hotel with a EUR 3.75 million price tag located on the Cork/Limerick route and Oriel House near Cork 
City.
Their most recent deal was the sale of Blarney Golf Resort in Cork for EUR 2.5 million, a price which represents an 
88 per cent reduction on the EUR 20 million that was quoted for it five years ago and a 92 per cent reduction on the 
EUR 30 million that was spent developing the four-star hotel and its 168 acre golf course and holiday lodges. Last 
week it was bought by a Northern Ireland businessman Tom O'Gorman, best known for his energy exploration 
successes.
Its sale is one of three which Savills secured this month alone. They also include the 95-bedroom Anner Hotel in 
Thurles, Co Tipperary which had a EUR 1.1 million asking price and the completion of the sale of the 79-bedroom 
Midleton Park Hotel, Co Cork, which the Talbot Hotel Group agreed to buy last June for a sum believed to be over 
the EUR 2.5 million asking price. Talbot already had three hotels  including Stillorgan Park Hotel, Dublin and the 
Talbot Hotels in Wexford and Carlow.
DTZ Sherry FitzGerald also has a number of hotels on the market including the 90-bedroom four-star Fitzwilton 
Hotel in Waterford city centre for which the guide price is EUR 2 million; the 20-bedroom Butlers Townhouse, 44 
Lansdowne Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, with a EUR 2.35 million guide and the 154-bedroom Radisson Blu Hotel 
and Spa, on 20 acres at Ennis Road, near Thomond Park, Limerick with a EUR 4 million guide.
**Some deals agreed last year**
This year's EUR 230 million worth of hotel deals include a number which were agreed last year but only got over 
the line since then. The figure also includes the late Jim Mansfield's CityWest hotel and one of its golf courses 
where a deal for around EUR 30 million has been agreed but the sale has been slow to close.
The most significant portion of the EUR 230 million is accounted for by the Shelbourne Hotel's loans which were 
bought by Kennedy Wilson for around EUR 111 million.
Other major recent deals include The Hilton Hotel on Charlemont Place, Dublin, purchased by billionaire American 
businessman John Malone in partnership with Ireland's Lalco Hotel Group for EUR 30 million. Another is US 
billionaire Donald Trump's purchase of Doonbeg hotel and golf course in Co Clare for EUR 15 million.
Investors pump EUR 230m into hotel sector
Allsop Space, which sold 14 hotels in 2013 at an average of EUR 309,000 each, says the strength of demand is 
reflected in its average sale prices achieving 37 per cent over reserve price. Spokesperson Richard O'Neill said: 
''The spread on room rates attained is quite dramatic, reflecting the variables of size, location, and condition, from 
EUR 3,645 per room in Moville, Co Donegal, to EUR 37,000 per room for a guest house in Ennis. Of late we have 
noted an increased interest in the hotel sector from UK-based buyers.
In Dublin, prices are much higher and appear to be rising more rapidly. For instance, the Morrison sold in Q2 2012 
for EUR 150,000 per bedroom, whereas more recently the Clarion IFSC sold for EUR 200,000 per bedroom. This 
suggests a 30 per cent increase in Dublin city centre hotel values in 18 months, but allowance should be made for 
the Clarion's swimming pool and leisure club.
Bill Morrissey points out that comparisons of price per room are much too simplistic. ''Those hotels with high 
bedroom occupancy levels are more sought after as the profitability could be higher than those where food and 
drink might account for a higher proportion of sales. So a better yard stick would be earnings before interest and 
tax, he adds.
Tom Barrett also points to improved bank lending conditions and capital investment: ''After some time, AIB and 
Bank of Ireland are now demonstrating a willingness to lend to domestic and international buyers.
''Demand for hotels is underpinned by their improved trading performance especially in the Dublin market which is 
considered one of the best performing capital cities in Europe. RevPAR (revenue per available room) witnessed 
growth of 8 per cent to EUR 71 per room in 2013, according to STR Global research. Regional cities also 
experienced positive RevPAR growth with Cork up 10 per cent to EUR 52, Galway up 9 per cent to EUR 53, 
Kilkenny up 12 per cent to EUR 50 and Limerick up 7 per cent to EUR 30, according to Trending.ie. Outside of the 
cities a recovery has begun, albeit at a slower pace", according to Barrett.
Load-Date: March 23, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ higher- Ryanair examined ISEQ up
ISEQ higher-Ryanair examined; ISEQ up
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 364 words
Highlight: The ISEQ is much improved this morning at 4937, up 43 points as markets show signs of recovery 
following the imposition of limited sanctions
Body
The ISEQ is much improved this morning at 4937, up 43 points as markets show signs of recovery following the 
imposition of limited sanctions against Russia.
Davy Stockbrokers looks at the "new look Ryanair":
Ryanair's new Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), Kenny Jacobs (seventh week in job), along with Dara Brady, Head of 
Web Development, presented Ryanair's customer service and digital initiatives. The CMO sees Ryanair as a 
"challenger" market-leading brand (similar to ALDI, H and M etc.) that focuses on the "always getting better 
programme" - fix the things customers don't like, improve the travel experience, enhance the digital experience, 
develop the Ryanair offer and improve brand and marketing. The digital building blocks are based on customer data 
and improving the customer experience - c.1m people have signed up to the "My Ryanair" customer registration. A 
new improved website will be launched in two weeks, and mobile boarding passes and the Ryanair app will be 
available by May/June. The new website should be faster and more intuitive, and Ryanair expects "fare finder" to be 
a key product in improving access to low-fare offers. Development of family and corporate products will take place 
in April/May. A marketing campaign using all media channels will accompany some of the new product initiatives. 
Network and traffic development - forward bookings (May-July) up 5per cent The uptake of allocated seating should 
allow strong ancillary revenues into the summer, and the strategy of lowering fares and increasing forward bookings 
should enable the airline to better manage close-in bookings. Forward bookings (May-July) are c.5per cent ahead 
of the prior year (this is before many of the new initiatives have been put in place). Growth at existing bases, 
facilitated by the travel tax removal in Ireland and the London Stansted growth deal, has allowed for growth and 
increased frequencies to primary and secondary airports. Stansted in particular is targeted for c.2m passengers per 
annum with destinations coming from a mix of primary and secondary airports. New bases in Italy, Brussels 
Zaventum, Lisbon and Greece are booking well according to Davy Stockbrokers.
ISEQ higher- Ryanair examined ISEQ up
Load-Date: March 24, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ higher- Ryanair examined ISEQ up
ISEQ higher-Ryanair examined; ISEQ up
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 364 words
Highlight: The ISEQ is much improved this morning at 4937, up 43 points as markets show signs of recovery 
following the imposition of limited sanctions
Body
The ISEQ is much improved this morning at 4937, up 43 points as markets show signs of recovery following the 
imposition of limited sanctions against Russia.
Davy Stockbrokers looks at the "new look Ryanair":
Ryanair's new Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), Kenny Jacobs (seventh week in job), along with Dara Brady, Head of 
Web Development, presented Ryanair's customer service and digital initiatives. The CMO sees Ryanair as a 
"challenger" market-leading brand (similar to ALDI, H and M etc.) that focuses on the "always getting better 
programme" - fix the things customers don't like, improve the travel experience, enhance the digital experience, 
develop the Ryanair offer and improve brand and marketing. The digital building blocks are based on customer data 
and improving the customer experience - c.1m people have signed up to the "My Ryanair" customer registration. A 
new improved website will be launched in two weeks, and mobile boarding passes and the Ryanair app will be 
available by May/June. The new website should be faster and more intuitive, and Ryanair expects "fare finder" to be 
a key product in improving access to low-fare offers. Development of family and corporate products will take place 
in April/May. A marketing campaign using all media channels will accompany some of the new product initiatives. 
Network and traffic development - forward bookings (May-July) up 5per cent The uptake of allocated seating should 
allow strong ancillary revenues into the summer, and the strategy of lowering fares and increasing forward bookings 
should enable the airline to better manage close-in bookings. Forward bookings (May-July) are c.5per cent ahead 
of the prior year (this is before many of the new initiatives have been put in place). Growth at existing bases, 
facilitated by the travel tax removal in Ireland and the London Stansted growth deal, has allowed for growth and 
increased frequencies to primary and secondary airports. Stansted in particular is targeted for c.2m passengers per 
annum with destinations coming from a mix of primary and secondary airports. New bases in Italy, Brussels 
Zaventum, Lisbon and Greece are booking well according to Davy Stockbrokers.
ISEQ higher- Ryanair examined ISEQ up
Load-Date: March 21, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ higher- Ryanair examined ISEQ up
ISEQ higher-Ryanair examined; ISEQ up
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 364 words
Highlight: The ISEQ is much improved this morning at 4937, up 43 points as markets show signs of recovery 
following the imposition of limited sanctions
Body
The ISEQ is much improved this morning at 4937, up 43 points as markets show signs of recovery following the 
imposition of limited sanctions against Russia.
Davy Stockbrokers looks at the "new look Ryanair":
Ryanair's new Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), Kenny Jacobs (seventh week in job), along with Dara Brady, Head of 
Web Development, presented Ryanair's customer service and digital initiatives. The CMO sees Ryanair as a 
"challenger" market-leading brand (similar to ALDI, H and M etc.) that focuses on the "always getting better 
programme" - fix the things customers don't like, improve the travel experience, enhance the digital experience, 
develop the Ryanair offer and improve brand and marketing. The digital building blocks are based on customer data 
and improving the customer experience - c.1m people have signed up to the "My Ryanair" customer registration. A 
new improved website will be launched in two weeks, and mobile boarding passes and the Ryanair app will be 
available by May/June. The new website should be faster and more intuitive, and Ryanair expects "fare finder" to be 
a key product in improving access to low-fare offers. Development of family and corporate products will take place 
in April/May. A marketing campaign using all media channels will accompany some of the new product initiatives. 
Network and traffic development - forward bookings (May-July) up 5per cent The uptake of allocated seating should 
allow strong ancillary revenues into the summer, and the strategy of lowering fares and increasing forward bookings 
should enable the airline to better manage close-in bookings. Forward bookings (May-July) are c.5per cent ahead 
of the prior year (this is before many of the new initiatives have been put in place). Growth at existing bases, 
facilitated by the travel tax removal in Ireland and the London Stansted growth deal, has allowed for growth and 
increased frequencies to primary and secondary airports. Stansted in particular is targeted for c.2m passengers per 
annum with destinations coming from a mix of primary and secondary airports. New bases in Italy, Brussels 
Zaventum, Lisbon and Greece are booking well according to Davy Stockbrokers.
ISEQ higher- Ryanair examined ISEQ up
Load-Date: March 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair shares lead Irish , Euro markets ISEQ Up
Ryanair shares lead Irish, Euro markets; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 375 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rebounded from three days of sharp losses this morning led by a 3pc jump in Ryanair's stocks 
on the back of an analyst day in which it outlined future plans.
Body
The ISEQ rebounded from three days of sharp losses this morning led by a 3pc jump in Ryanair's stocks on the 
back of an analyst day in which it outlined future plans.
By 12:30, the index was up 27.90 points to 4,922.21.
Ryanair shares rose 22c to E7.44 in morning trading. Ryanair hosted a sell-side site visit to its new corporate 
headquarters near Dublin Airport yesterday. Presentations were given on the customer programme - brand, digital 
strategy and service, on network development and traffic management (Ryanair has just launched its winter 2014 
London Stansted and Dublin schedules) and on aircraft financing plans and corporate rating (Ryanair received a 
BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, making it the highest rated airline in the world). "With forward bookings 
(May-July) circa 5pc ahead of the prior year, new airport deals and an improved customer, brand and marketing 
experience, Ryanair remains very well positioned with its lowest cost/fares model as the 175 Boeing aircraft order is 
rolled out. Initial trading indications for the summer should be provided at the group's full-year results on May 19th," 
said Davy in Dublin. "There was a positive site visit to Ryanair, and with fares going up this summer and improved 
booking, and it's prompted the likes of Deutsche Bank to push them today," Zeg Choudhry, head of equities trading 
at Northland Capital in London said.
IFG shares fell 2c to E1.64. It is due to release 2013 results on March 27. The company indicated in its November 
IMS that trends of the first half had continued. For H113, it reported adjusted EPS of 3.55p EPS and for FY13 
Goodbody are forecasting 7.2p (8.6p on a Goodbody adjusted basis), from revenues of £77.3m and EBIT of £6m. 
"We expect a net cash figure of £25m and DPS to remain unchanged at 3.6p," the broker said. "IFG Group is 
trading on 12x FY15 PE compared to 14x for its closest peers. Given similar growth rates, this looks overly punitive. 
We value IFG on 14x FY15 PE which generates a price target of E2.05. We remain positive on IFG and expect to 
Ryanair shares lead Irish , Euro markets ISEQ Up
see cash accumulate over the forecast period following a period of significant investment, which should lead to 
further returns to shareholders," Goodbody added. It has a "Buy" rating on the stock.
Load-Date: March 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair shares lead Irish , Euro markets ISEQ Up
Ryanair shares lead Irish, Euro markets; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 375 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rebounded from three days of sharp losses this morning led by a 3pc jump in Ryanair's stocks 
on the back of an analyst day in which it outlined future plans.
Body
The ISEQ rebounded from three days of sharp losses this morning led by a 3pc jump in Ryanair's stocks on the 
back of an analyst day in which it outlined future plans.
By 12:30, the index was up 27.90 points to 4,922.21.
Ryanair shares rose 22c to E7.44 in morning trading. Ryanair hosted a sell-side site visit to its new corporate 
headquarters near Dublin Airport yesterday. Presentations were given on the customer programme - brand, digital 
strategy and service, on network development and traffic management (Ryanair has just launched its winter 2014 
London Stansted and Dublin schedules) and on aircraft financing plans and corporate rating (Ryanair received a 
BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, making it the highest rated airline in the world). "With forward bookings 
(May-July) circa 5pc ahead of the prior year, new airport deals and an improved customer, brand and marketing 
experience, Ryanair remains very well positioned with its lowest cost/fares model as the 175 Boeing aircraft order is 
rolled out. Initial trading indications for the summer should be provided at the group's full-year results on May 19th," 
said Davy in Dublin. "There was a positive site visit to Ryanair, and with fares going up this summer and improved 
booking, and it's prompted the likes of Deutsche Bank to push them today," Zeg Choudhry, head of equities trading 
at Northland Capital in London said.
IFG shares fell 2c to E1.64. It is due to release 2013 results on March 27. The company indicated in its November 
IMS that trends of the first half had continued. For H113, it reported adjusted EPS of 3.55p EPS and for FY13 
Goodbody are forecasting 7.2p (8.6p on a Goodbody adjusted basis), from revenues of £77.3m and EBIT of £6m. 
"We expect a net cash figure of £25m and DPS to remain unchanged at 3.6p," the broker said. "IFG Group is 
trading on 12x FY15 PE compared to 14x for its closest peers. Given similar growth rates, this looks overly punitive. 
We value IFG on 14x FY15 PE which generates a price target of E2.05. We remain positive on IFG and expect to 
Ryanair shares lead Irish , Euro markets ISEQ Up
see cash accumulate over the forecast period following a period of significant investment, which should lead to 
further returns to shareholders," Goodbody added. It has a "Buy" rating on the stock.
Load-Date: March 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair shares lead Irish , Euro markets ISEQ Up
Ryanair shares lead Irish, Euro markets; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 375 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rebounded from three days of sharp losses this morning led by a 3pc jump in Ryanair's stocks 
on the back of an analyst day in which it outlined future plans.
Body
The ISEQ rebounded from three days of sharp losses this morning led by a 3pc jump in Ryanair's stocks on the 
back of an analyst day in which it outlined future plans.
By 12:30, the index was up 27.90 points to 4,922.21.
Ryanair shares rose 22c to E7.44 in morning trading. Ryanair hosted a sell-side site visit to its new corporate 
headquarters near Dublin Airport yesterday. Presentations were given on the customer programme - brand, digital 
strategy and service, on network development and traffic management (Ryanair has just launched its winter 2014 
London Stansted and Dublin schedules) and on aircraft financing plans and corporate rating (Ryanair received a 
BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, making it the highest rated airline in the world). "With forward bookings 
(May-July) circa 5pc ahead of the prior year, new airport deals and an improved customer, brand and marketing 
experience, Ryanair remains very well positioned with its lowest cost/fares model as the 175 Boeing aircraft order is 
rolled out. Initial trading indications for the summer should be provided at the group's full-year results on May 19th," 
said Davy in Dublin. "There was a positive site visit to Ryanair, and with fares going up this summer and improved 
booking, and it's prompted the likes of Deutsche Bank to push them today," Zeg Choudhry, head of equities trading 
at Northland Capital in London said.
IFG shares fell 2c to E1.64. It is due to release 2013 results on March 27. The company indicated in its November 
IMS that trends of the first half had continued. For H113, it reported adjusted EPS of 3.55p EPS and for FY13 
Goodbody are forecasting 7.2p (8.6p on a Goodbody adjusted basis), from revenues of £77.3m and EBIT of £6m. 
"We expect a net cash figure of £25m and DPS to remain unchanged at 3.6p," the broker said. "IFG Group is 
trading on 12x FY15 PE compared to 14x for its closest peers. Given similar growth rates, this looks overly punitive. 
We value IFG on 14x FY15 PE which generates a price target of E2.05. We remain positive on IFG and expect to 
Ryanair shares lead Irish , Euro markets ISEQ Up
see cash accumulate over the forecast period following a period of significant investment, which should lead to 
further returns to shareholders," Goodbody added. It has a "Buy" rating on the stock.
Load-Date: March 26, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair shares lead Irish , Euro markets ISEQ Up
Ryanair shares lead Irish, Euro markets; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 375 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rebounded from three days of sharp losses this morning led by a 3pc jump in Ryanair's stocks 
on the back of an analyst day in which it outlined future plans.
Body
The ISEQ rebounded from three days of sharp losses this morning led by a 3pc jump in Ryanair's stocks on the 
back of an analyst day in which it outlined future plans.
By 12:30, the index was up 27.90 points to 4,922.21.
Ryanair shares rose 22c to E7.44 in morning trading. Ryanair hosted a sell-side site visit to its new corporate 
headquarters near Dublin Airport yesterday. Presentations were given on the customer programme - brand, digital 
strategy and service, on network development and traffic management (Ryanair has just launched its winter 2014 
London Stansted and Dublin schedules) and on aircraft financing plans and corporate rating (Ryanair received a 
BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, making it the highest rated airline in the world). "With forward bookings 
(May-July) circa 5pc ahead of the prior year, new airport deals and an improved customer, brand and marketing 
experience, Ryanair remains very well positioned with its lowest cost/fares model as the 175 Boeing aircraft order is 
rolled out. Initial trading indications for the summer should be provided at the group's full-year results on May 19th," 
said Davy in Dublin. "There was a positive site visit to Ryanair, and with fares going up this summer and improved 
booking, and it's prompted the likes of Deutsche Bank to push them today," Zeg Choudhry, head of equities trading 
at Northland Capital in London said.
IFG shares fell 2c to E1.64. It is due to release 2013 results on March 27. The company indicated in its November 
IMS that trends of the first half had continued. For H113, it reported adjusted EPS of 3.55p EPS and for FY13 
Goodbody are forecasting 7.2p (8.6p on a Goodbody adjusted basis), from revenues of £77.3m and EBIT of £6m. 
"We expect a net cash figure of £25m and DPS to remain unchanged at 3.6p," the broker said. "IFG Group is 
trading on 12x FY15 PE compared to 14x for its closest peers. Given similar growth rates, this looks overly punitive. 
We value IFG on 14x FY15 PE which generates a price target of E2.05. We remain positive on IFG and expect to 
Ryanair shares lead Irish , Euro markets ISEQ Up
see cash accumulate over the forecast period following a period of significant investment, which should lead to 
further returns to shareholders," Goodbody added. It has a "Buy" rating on the stock.
Load-Date: March 24, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar ISEQ Rises
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar; ISEQ Rises
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 367 words
Highlight: The ISEQ closed a tough week on a modest high, thanks largely to a rise of just over 3pc for Ryanair's 
stocks after a string of positive broker reports.
Body
The ISEQ closed a tough week on a modest high, thanks largely to a rise of just over 3pc for Ryanair's stocks after 
a string of positive broker reports.
The index rose 20.56 points to 4,914.87.
Ryanair shares rose 23c to E7.45. Ryanair hosted a sell-side site visit to its new corporate headquarters near 
Dublin Airport yesterday. Presentations were given on the customer programme - brand, digital strategy and 
service, on network development and traffic management (Ryanair has just launched its winter 2014 London 
Stansted and Dublin schedules) and on aircraft financing plans and corporate rating (Ryanair received a BBB+ 
rating from Standard and Poor's, making it the highest rated airline in the world). "With forward bookings (May-July) 
circa 5pc ahead of the prior year, new airport deals and an improved customer, brand and marketing experience, 
Ryanair remains very well positioned with its lowest cost/fares model as the 175 Boeing aircraft order is rolled out. 
Initial trading indications for the summer should be provided at the group's full-year results on May 19th," said Davy 
in Dublin. "There was a positive site visit to Ryanair, and with fares going up this summer and improved booking, 
and it's prompted the likes of Deutsche Bank to push them today," Zeg Choudhry, head of equities trading at 
Northland Capital in London said.
IFG shares rose 4c to E1.70. It is due to release 2013 results on March 27. The company indicated in its November 
IMS that trends of the first half had continued. For H113, it reported adjusted EPS of 3.55p EPS and for FY13 
Goodbody are forecasting 7.2p (8.6p on a Goodbody adjusted basis), from revenues of £77.3m and EBIT of £6m. 
"We expect a net cash figure of £25m and DPS to remain unchanged at 3.6p," the broker said. "IFG Group is 
trading on 12x FY15 PE compared to 14x for its closest peers. Given similar growth rates, this looks overly punitive. 
We value IFG on 14x FY15 PE which generates a price target of E2.05. We remain positive on IFG and expect to 
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar ISEQ Rises
see cash accumulate over the forecast period following a period of significant investment, which should lead to 
further returns to shareholders," Goodbody added. It has a "Buy" rating on the stock.
Load-Date: March 26, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar ISEQ Rises
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar; ISEQ Rises
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 367 words
Highlight: The ISEQ closed a tough week on a modest high, thanks largely to a rise of just over 3pc for Ryanair's 
stocks after a string of positive broker reports.
Body
The ISEQ closed a tough week on a modest high, thanks largely to a rise of just over 3pc for Ryanair's stocks after 
a string of positive broker reports.
The index rose 20.56 points to 4,914.87.
Ryanair shares rose 23c to E7.45. Ryanair hosted a sell-side site visit to its new corporate headquarters near 
Dublin Airport yesterday. Presentations were given on the customer programme - brand, digital strategy and 
service, on network development and traffic management (Ryanair has just launched its winter 2014 London 
Stansted and Dublin schedules) and on aircraft financing plans and corporate rating (Ryanair received a BBB+ 
rating from Standard and Poor's, making it the highest rated airline in the world). "With forward bookings (May-July) 
circa 5pc ahead of the prior year, new airport deals and an improved customer, brand and marketing experience, 
Ryanair remains very well positioned with its lowest cost/fares model as the 175 Boeing aircraft order is rolled out. 
Initial trading indications for the summer should be provided at the group's full-year results on May 19th," said Davy 
in Dublin. "There was a positive site visit to Ryanair, and with fares going up this summer and improved booking, 
and it's prompted the likes of Deutsche Bank to push them today," Zeg Choudhry, head of equities trading at 
Northland Capital in London said.
IFG shares rose 4c to E1.70. It is due to release 2013 results on March 27. The company indicated in its November 
IMS that trends of the first half had continued. For H113, it reported adjusted EPS of 3.55p EPS and for FY13 
Goodbody are forecasting 7.2p (8.6p on a Goodbody adjusted basis), from revenues of £77.3m and EBIT of £6m. 
"We expect a net cash figure of £25m and DPS to remain unchanged at 3.6p," the broker said. "IFG Group is 
trading on 12x FY15 PE compared to 14x for its closest peers. Given similar growth rates, this looks overly punitive. 
We value IFG on 14x FY15 PE which generates a price target of E2.05. We remain positive on IFG and expect to 
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar ISEQ Rises
see cash accumulate over the forecast period following a period of significant investment, which should lead to 
further returns to shareholders," Goodbody added. It has a "Buy" rating on the stock.
Load-Date: March 24, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar ISEQ Rises
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar; ISEQ Rises
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 367 words
Highlight: The ISEQ closed a tough week on a modest high, thanks largely to a rise of just over 3pc for Ryanair's 
stocks after a string of positive broker reports.
Body
The ISEQ closed a tough week on a modest high, thanks largely to a rise of just over 3pc for Ryanair's stocks after 
a string of positive broker reports.
The index rose 20.56 points to 4,914.87.
Ryanair shares rose 23c to E7.45. Ryanair hosted a sell-side site visit to its new corporate headquarters near 
Dublin Airport yesterday. Presentations were given on the customer programme - brand, digital strategy and 
service, on network development and traffic management (Ryanair has just launched its winter 2014 London 
Stansted and Dublin schedules) and on aircraft financing plans and corporate rating (Ryanair received a BBB+ 
rating from Standard and Poor's, making it the highest rated airline in the world). "With forward bookings (May-July) 
circa 5pc ahead of the prior year, new airport deals and an improved customer, brand and marketing experience, 
Ryanair remains very well positioned with its lowest cost/fares model as the 175 Boeing aircraft order is rolled out. 
Initial trading indications for the summer should be provided at the group's full-year results on May 19th," said Davy 
in Dublin. "There was a positive site visit to Ryanair, and with fares going up this summer and improved booking, 
and it's prompted the likes of Deutsche Bank to push them today," Zeg Choudhry, head of equities trading at 
Northland Capital in London said.
IFG shares rose 4c to E1.70. It is due to release 2013 results on March 27. The company indicated in its November 
IMS that trends of the first half had continued. For H113, it reported adjusted EPS of 3.55p EPS and for FY13 
Goodbody are forecasting 7.2p (8.6p on a Goodbody adjusted basis), from revenues of £77.3m and EBIT of £6m. 
"We expect a net cash figure of £25m and DPS to remain unchanged at 3.6p," the broker said. "IFG Group is 
trading on 12x FY15 PE compared to 14x for its closest peers. Given similar growth rates, this looks overly punitive. 
We value IFG on 14x FY15 PE which generates a price target of E2.05. We remain positive on IFG and expect to 
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar ISEQ Rises
see cash accumulate over the forecast period following a period of significant investment, which should lead to 
further returns to shareholders," Goodbody added. It has a "Buy" rating on the stock.
Load-Date: March 25, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar ISEQ Rises
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar; ISEQ Rises
Business World (Digest)
March 21, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 367 words
Highlight: The ISEQ closed a tough week on a modest high, thanks largely to a rise of just over 3pc for Ryanair's 
stocks after a string of positive broker reports.
Body
The ISEQ closed a tough week on a modest high, thanks largely to a rise of just over 3pc for Ryanair's stocks after 
a string of positive broker reports.
The index rose 20.56 points to 4,914.87.
Ryanair shares rose 23c to E7.45. Ryanair hosted a sell-side site visit to its new corporate headquarters near 
Dublin Airport yesterday. Presentations were given on the customer programme - brand, digital strategy and 
service, on network development and traffic management (Ryanair has just launched its winter 2014 London 
Stansted and Dublin schedules) and on aircraft financing plans and corporate rating (Ryanair received a BBB+ 
rating from Standard and Poor's, making it the highest rated airline in the world). "With forward bookings (May-July) 
circa 5pc ahead of the prior year, new airport deals and an improved customer, brand and marketing experience, 
Ryanair remains very well positioned with its lowest cost/fares model as the 175 Boeing aircraft order is rolled out. 
Initial trading indications for the summer should be provided at the group's full-year results on May 19th," said Davy 
in Dublin. "There was a positive site visit to Ryanair, and with fares going up this summer and improved booking, 
and it's prompted the likes of Deutsche Bank to push them today," Zeg Choudhry, head of equities trading at 
Northland Capital in London said.
IFG shares rose 4c to E1.70. It is due to release 2013 results on March 27. The company indicated in its November 
IMS that trends of the first half had continued. For H113, it reported adjusted EPS of 3.55p EPS and for FY13 
Goodbody are forecasting 7.2p (8.6p on a Goodbody adjusted basis), from revenues of £77.3m and EBIT of £6m. 
"We expect a net cash figure of £25m and DPS to remain unchanged at 3.6p," the broker said. "IFG Group is 
trading on 12x FY15 PE compared to 14x for its closest peers. Given similar growth rates, this looks overly punitive. 
We value IFG on 14x FY15 PE which generates a price target of E2.05. We remain positive on IFG and expect to 
ISEQ rises as Ryanair stocks soar ISEQ Rises
see cash accumulate over the forecast period following a period of significant investment, which should lead to 
further returns to shareholders," Goodbody added. It has a "Buy" rating on the stock.
Load-Date: March 21, 2014
End of Document
Credit rating clears path for Ryanair debut bond TRAVEL & LEISURE
Credit rating clears path for Ryanair debut bond; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
March 21, 2014 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 14
Length: 221 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Body
Ryanair received a credit rating yesterday as part of the Irish airline's plan to issue a bond and raise funds for an 
aircraft order.
Standard & Poor's awarded Ryanair a BBB+ rating, allowing the carrier to access the capital markets as it looks for 
secured and unsecured debt financing for its order of 175 Boeing 737 aircraft.
It would be the first time the airline has tapped the capital markets directly, and is an attempt to bring down its cost 
of financing. It was advised by Citibank.
It is unusual for airlines to issue bonds directly and analysts said Ryanair's plan was a sign of change in the 
European sector.
Airlines have not traditionally issued bonds because investors have not wanted the risk attached to lending to a 
cyclical industry. However, with consolidation taking place across the sector over a number of years the finances of 
some airlines were proving to be more stable, said Douglas McNeill at Charles Stanley.
The awarding of the investment grade rating came as Ryanair added eight routes from Stansted airport and more 
flights to 36 business routes, bringing its weekly tally of flights from the Essex airport to more than 700.
Credit rating clears path for Ryanair debut bond TRAVEL & LEISURE
The budget airline also said it had completed a EUR70m share buyback that it announced in December, bringing its 
total share buyback for the financial year to EUR484m.
Jane Wild
Load-Date: March 20, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair gets a credit rating as it prepares to tap the bond market
Ryanair gets a credit rating as it prepares to tap the bond market
City A.M.
March 21, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 173 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
RYANAIR was given a credit rating of BBB+ yesterday, taking the budget airline a step closer to issuing bonds.
Standard & Poor's said the rating reflected Ryanair's "industryleading profitability" along with the risks associated 
with its "reputation for providing less customer-friendly services than some of its peers".
S&P has deemed Ryanair to be three notches above junk, which the Irish carrier said made it "the highest rated 
airline in the world".
S&P has given ratings considered junk, or below investment grade, to airlines including British Airways, Delta and 
Qantas.
Ryanair is looking to tap the bond markets to fund its purchase of 175 Boeing planes by 2019. The plane deal is 
worth $16bn at list prices though large orders tend to get steep discounts.
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers has sold several tranches of bonds backed by the US 
governmentowned ExIm, but is preparing to tap markets directly for the first time to lower its financing costs. The 
company did not comment yesterday on the timing of its bond issue.
Graphic
 
Michael O'Leary's firm will issue bonds
Ryanair gets a credit rating as it prepares to tap the bond market
Load-Date: March 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair gets a rating ahead of bond Ryanair Rating
Ryanair gets a rating ahead of bond; Ryanair Rating
Business World (Digest)
March 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 265 words
Highlight: Ryanair has secured its first credit rating as it prepares to tap capital markets to finance its order for 175 
Boeing jets, gaining a BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, the Irish airline said today.
Body
Ryanair has secured its first credit rating as it prepares to tap capital markets to finance its order for 175 Boeing 
jets, gaining a BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, the Irish airline said today.
It is now the highest rated airline in the world
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers has raised funds in the past through bonds backed by the U.S. 
government-owned ExIm bank, but is preparing to tap markets directly for the first time to lower its cost of financing.
A Ryanair spokesman declined to say when the company's first bond issue would take place. Deliveries of the 
airline's order of 175 Boeing 737s are due to begin later this year. Ryanair also said it had completed a E70 million 
euro share buyback, taking the total to E484 million over the past 12 months. Ryanair's CFO and Deputy Chief 
Executive Howard Millar said: "We are very pleased with the Standard & Poor's rating of BBB+ (modified from a-), 
which makes Ryanair the highest rated airline in the world and reflects the financial strength of Ryanair's business 
model. The successful achievement of this BBB+ rating is part of our plan to access the capital markets to finance 
the purchase of our 175 Boeing 737-800 order via both secured and unsecured debt offerings. The BBB+ rating will 
enable us to achieve lower cost financing to ensure that we continue to have the lowest costs and the lowest fares 
in Europe." "The completion of our E70m systematic share buyback programme announced in December brings the 
total share buybacks completed in FY14 to E484m significantly ahead of our original E400m target".
Load-Date: March 20, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair gets a rating ahead of bond Ryanair Rating
Ryanair gets a rating ahead of bond; Ryanair Rating
Business World (Digest)
March 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 265 words
Highlight: Ryanair has secured its first credit rating as it prepares to tap capital markets to finance its order for 175 
Boeing jets, gaining a BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, the Irish airline said today.
Body
Ryanair has secured its first credit rating as it prepares to tap capital markets to finance its order for 175 Boeing 
jets, gaining a BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, the Irish airline said today.
It is now the highest rated airline in the world
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers has raised funds in the past through bonds backed by the U.S. 
government-owned ExIm bank, but is preparing to tap markets directly for the first time to lower its cost of financing.
A Ryanair spokesman declined to say when the company's first bond issue would take place. Deliveries of the 
airline's order of 175 Boeing 737s are due to begin later this year. Ryanair also said it had completed a E70 million 
euro share buyback, taking the total to E484 million over the past 12 months. Ryanair's CFO and Deputy Chief 
Executive Howard Millar said: "We are very pleased with the Standard & Poor's rating of BBB+ (modified from a-), 
which makes Ryanair the highest rated airline in the world and reflects the financial strength of Ryanair's business 
model. The successful achievement of this BBB+ rating is part of our plan to access the capital markets to finance 
the purchase of our 175 Boeing 737-800 order via both secured and unsecured debt offerings. The BBB+ rating will 
enable us to achieve lower cost financing to ensure that we continue to have the lowest costs and the lowest fares 
in Europe." "The completion of our E70m systematic share buyback programme announced in December brings the 
total share buybacks completed in FY14 to E484m significantly ahead of our original E400m target".
Load-Date: March 24, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair gets a rating ahead of bond Ryanair Rating
Ryanair gets a rating ahead of bond; Ryanair Rating
Business World (Digest)
March 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 265 words
Highlight: Ryanair has secured its first credit rating as it prepares to tap capital markets to finance its order for 175 
Boeing jets, gaining a BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, the Irish airline said today.
Body
Ryanair has secured its first credit rating as it prepares to tap capital markets to finance its order for 175 Boeing 
jets, gaining a BBB+ rating from Standard and Poor's, the Irish airline said today.
It is now the highest rated airline in the world
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers has raised funds in the past through bonds backed by the U.S. 
government-owned ExIm bank, but is preparing to tap markets directly for the first time to lower its cost of financing.
A Ryanair spokesman declined to say when the company's first bond issue would take place. Deliveries of the 
airline's order of 175 Boeing 737s are due to begin later this year. Ryanair also said it had completed a E70 million 
euro share buyback, taking the total to E484 million over the past 12 months. Ryanair's CFO and Deputy Chief 
Executive Howard Millar said: "We are very pleased with the Standard & Poor's rating of BBB+ (modified from a-), 
which makes Ryanair the highest rated airline in the world and reflects the financial strength of Ryanair's business 
model. The successful achievement of this BBB+ rating is part of our plan to access the capital markets to finance 
the purchase of our 175 Boeing 737-800 order via both secured and unsecured debt offerings. The BBB+ rating will 
enable us to achieve lower cost financing to ensure that we continue to have the lowest costs and the lowest fares 
in Europe." "The completion of our E70m systematic share buyback programme announced in December brings the 
total share buybacks completed in FY14 to E484m significantly ahead of our original E400m target".
Load-Date: March 21, 2014
End of Document
Norwegian Air sets course to change the face of aviation
Norwegian Air sets course to change the face of aviation
Financial Times (London, England)
March 20, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: INSIDE BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 775 words
Byline: Tony Barber on Europe
Body
In 1993 Bjørn Kjos, a lawyer and former fighter pilot, acquired the assets of Busy Bee, an airline that had buzzed up 
and down Norway's west coast for a quarter of a century before it lost its sting and went bankrupt.
Norwegian Air Shuttle, the carrier that succeeded Busy Bee, is an altogether sturdier creature. As chief executive, 
Mr Kjos has energetically built Norwegian into Europe's third largest low-cost airline after Ryanair and easyJet. Now 
Norwegian's competitors are taking a closer look at Mr Kjos's audacious business model. It is dawning on them that 
he plans nothing less than to change the face of global commercial aviation.
Whether you consider Mr Kjos a visionary , or prefer some less flattering term, may depend on whether you are a 
satisfied customer, a US pilot, a Thai cabin crew member, a secret admirer at a rival airline or a politician worried 
about industry standards. But like him or loathe him, few dispute that what Mr Kjos is attempting is a revolution in 
his industry .
Twenty-one years after its launch, Norwegian is still a recognisably Scandinavian airline, and not even the biggest 
revenue-generator in its region, a rank held by Stockholm-based SAS. Norwegian also remains a carrier focused, 
for now, on short-haul European flights. But Mr Kjos is pinning his expansion plans on a radical extension of the 
budget airline concept from short-haul travel to intercontinental flights spanning the US, western Europe and 
southeast Asia.
Norwegian Air sets course to change the face of aviation
It is an idea with obvious appeal to millions of travellers. But it will not go very far unless he manages to slash the 
operating costs of long-haul travel.
In this respect there are two factors that Mr Kjos cannot control, and two that he can. He can do nothing about the 
world price of aviation fuel, or about the Norwegian krone's fluctuations on foreign exchange markets, a factor that 
dented his airline's profits in the final three months of 2013. But he can achieve economies by investing in Boeing's 
new 787 Dreamliner aircraft , whose light body and advanced electrical systems are supposed to produce a 20 per 
cent reduction in fuel consumption on long-haul flights. By the end of 2014, Mr Kjos wants his airline to be flying 
seven Dreamliners, up from three today.
He can also seek to cut labour costs by hiring staff outside Scandinavia, famous for its high wages and social 
security charges levied on employers. This is why Mr Kjos last year started to employ Bangkok-based Thai flight 
attendants for intercontinental routes at a fraction of the pay earned by their Norwegian equivalents.
He took matters further in December by setting up a subsidiary in Ireland to serve as the vehicle for Norwegian's 
long-haul business. Not that the airline intends, as far as we know, to fly from Dublin to the US or Asia. On the 
contrary, the purpose of this manoeuvre appears mainly to take advantage of flexible Irish labour law.
Unlike in Norway, Irish law permits the airline to employ staff from non-European countries as it pursues its 
expansion into the US market. As Mr Kjos had correctly foreseen, the Irish authorities raised no difficulties when 
they certified Norwegian last month as an air carrier.
But Mr Kjos still needs approval from the US Department of Transportation before he can start up new low-fare 
transatlantic routes, such as a proposed service between New York and London's Gatwick airport.
Dozens of US senators, not to mention the AFL-CIO trade union federation and US pilots' unions, object to Mr 
Kjos's plans. They complain that he is dodging labour standards enshrined in the 2008 US-European "open skies" 
agreement that liberalised air travel.
But is Mr Kjos doing anything illegal or unethical? As experts at the Sydney-based Capa Centre for Aviation point 
out , as long as labour costs are lower in some parts of the world than others, cost-conscious airlines will find them 
and put them to use. Global aviation is so competitive a business that other airlines may follow Norwegian's 
example sooner than legal challenges will foil Mr Kjos.
That said, other things may hold up or derail the Norwegian revolution. For passengers, one sacred principle of low-
cost travel is that you take off and land on time. But in December and January several long-haul Norwegian flights 
endured severe delays because of technical problems with the carrier's Dreamliners. Similar delays happened with 
other types of aircraft earlier in 2013.
In such circumstances, customers care little who is to blame. All they remember is that they flew across the globe 
with Norwegian - and something went wrong.
Tony Barber is the FT's Europe editor
 ft.com/insidebusiness
Load-Date: March 19, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to add 7 new routes from Dublin Ryanair Dublin
Ryanair to add 7 new routes from Dublin; Ryanair Dublin
Business World (Digest)
March 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 92 words
Highlight: Ryanair released its Dublin winter 2014 schedule, with seven new routes and increased flights on 21 
existing routes.
Body
Ryanair released its Dublin winter 2014 schedule, with seven new routes and increased flights on 21 existing 
routes.
The increase will see its schedule grow from 900 to over 1,000 weekly flights.
It said that this growth is a direct result of the Government's welcome decision to scrap the travel tax from 1st April 
next and will deliver over 800,000 more passengers at Dublin Airport this year.
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at Dublin will deliver: 7 new routes to Basel, Bucharest, Cologne, Lisbon, 
Marrakesh, Nice and Prague with 59 Dublin routes in total.
Load-Date: March 20, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to add 7 new routes from Dublin Ryanair Dublin
Ryanair to add 7 new routes from Dublin; Ryanair Dublin
Business World (Digest)
March 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 92 words
Highlight: Ryanair released its Dublin winter 2014 schedule, with seven new routes and increased flights on 21 
existing routes.
Body
Ryanair released its Dublin winter 2014 schedule, with seven new routes and increased flights on 21 existing 
routes.
The increase will see its schedule grow from 900 to over 1,000 weekly flights.
It said that this growth is a direct result of the Government's welcome decision to scrap the travel tax from 1st April 
next and will deliver over 800,000 more passengers at Dublin Airport this year.
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at Dublin will deliver: 7 new routes to Basel, Bucharest, Cologne, Lisbon, 
Marrakesh, Nice and Prague with 59 Dublin routes in total.
Load-Date: March 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to add 7 new routes from Dublin Ryanair Dublin
Ryanair to add 7 new routes from Dublin; Ryanair Dublin
Business World (Digest)
March 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 92 words
Highlight: Ryanair released its Dublin winter 2014 schedule, with seven new routes and increased flights on 21 
existing routes.
Body
Ryanair released its Dublin winter 2014 schedule, with seven new routes and increased flights on 21 existing 
routes.
The increase will see its schedule grow from 900 to over 1,000 weekly flights.
It said that this growth is a direct result of the Government's welcome decision to scrap the travel tax from 1st April 
next and will deliver over 800,000 more passengers at Dublin Airport this year.
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at Dublin will deliver: 7 new routes to Basel, Bucharest, Cologne, Lisbon, 
Marrakesh, Nice and Prague with 59 Dublin routes in total.
Load-Date: March 24, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 8 new Stansted routes Ryanair Growth
Ryanair launch 8 new Stansted routes; Ryanair Growth
Business World (Digest)
March 19, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Highlight: Ryanair today released its London Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes and increased 
flights on 36 other routes.
Body
Ryanair today released its London Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes and increased flights on 36 
other routes.
The Irish airline said the expansion will deliver growth of two million customers a year and support 2,000 new on-
site jobs at London Stansted Airport.
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at London Stansted will deliver: 8 new routes: Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, 
Perpignan, Prague, Rabat and Skelleftea
It will have 109 Stansted routes in total. CEO Michael O'Leary said:"Ryanair is pleased to launch our London 
Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes to Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, Perpignan, Prague, 
Rabat and Skelleftea, as well as increased frequencies on 36 other routes, all of which go on sale on the 
Ryanair.com website tomorrow. As Stansted's biggest airline, Ryanair looks forward to continuing to work closely 
with M.A.G. to grow traffic, routes and jobs at Stansted Airport." "Our 8 new winter routes with multiple daily 
frequencies are ideal for business passengers or families booking a winter sun or ski getaway. Ryanair customers 
can also enjoy our recent customer service improvements including a second free carry-on bag, allocated seating 
and the use of portable electronic devices, with further improvements to be rolled out over the coming months."
Load-Date: March 24, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 8 new Stansted routes Ryanair Growth
Ryanair launch 8 new Stansted routes; Ryanair Growth
Business World (Digest)
March 19, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Highlight: Ryanair today released its London Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes and increased 
flights on 36 other routes.
Body
Ryanair today released its London Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes and increased flights on 36 
other routes.
The Irish airline said the expansion will deliver growth of two million customers a year and support 2,000 new on-
site jobs at London Stansted Airport.
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at London Stansted will deliver: 8 new routes: Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, 
Perpignan, Prague, Rabat and Skelleftea
It will have 109 Stansted routes in total. CEO Michael O'Leary said:"Ryanair is pleased to launch our London 
Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes to Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, Perpignan, Prague, 
Rabat and Skelleftea, as well as increased frequencies on 36 other routes, all of which go on sale on the 
Ryanair.com website tomorrow. As Stansted's biggest airline, Ryanair looks forward to continuing to work closely 
with M.A.G. to grow traffic, routes and jobs at Stansted Airport." "Our 8 new winter routes with multiple daily 
frequencies are ideal for business passengers or families booking a winter sun or ski getaway. Ryanair customers 
can also enjoy our recent customer service improvements including a second free carry-on bag, allocated seating 
and the use of portable electronic devices, with further improvements to be rolled out over the coming months."
Load-Date: March 20, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 8 new Stansted routes Ryanair Growth
Ryanair launch 8 new Stansted routes; Ryanair Growth
Business World (Digest)
March 19, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Highlight: Ryanair today released its London Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes and increased 
flights on 36 other routes.
Body
Ryanair today released its London Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes and increased flights on 36 
other routes.
The Irish airline said the expansion will deliver growth of two million customers a year and support 2,000 new on-
site jobs at London Stansted Airport.
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at London Stansted will deliver: 8 new routes: Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, 
Perpignan, Prague, Rabat and Skelleftea
It will have 109 Stansted routes in total. CEO Michael O'Leary said:"Ryanair is pleased to launch our London 
Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes to Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, Perpignan, Prague, 
Rabat and Skelleftea, as well as increased frequencies on 36 other routes, all of which go on sale on the 
Ryanair.com website tomorrow. As Stansted's biggest airline, Ryanair looks forward to continuing to work closely 
with M.A.G. to grow traffic, routes and jobs at Stansted Airport." "Our 8 new winter routes with multiple daily 
frequencies are ideal for business passengers or families booking a winter sun or ski getaway. Ryanair customers 
can also enjoy our recent customer service improvements including a second free carry-on bag, allocated seating 
and the use of portable electronic devices, with further improvements to be rolled out over the coming months."
Load-Date: March 19, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launch 8 new Stansted routes Ryanair Growth
Ryanair launch 8 new Stansted routes; Ryanair Growth
Business World (Digest)
March 19, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Highlight: Ryanair today released its London Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes and increased 
flights on 36 other routes.
Body
Ryanair today released its London Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes and increased flights on 36 
other routes.
The Irish airline said the expansion will deliver growth of two million customers a year and support 2,000 new on-
site jobs at London Stansted Airport.
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at London Stansted will deliver: 8 new routes: Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, 
Perpignan, Prague, Rabat and Skelleftea
It will have 109 Stansted routes in total. CEO Michael O'Leary said:"Ryanair is pleased to launch our London 
Stansted 2014 winter schedule, with 8 new routes to Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Bucharest, Perpignan, Prague, 
Rabat and Skelleftea, as well as increased frequencies on 36 other routes, all of which go on sale on the 
Ryanair.com website tomorrow. As Stansted's biggest airline, Ryanair looks forward to continuing to work closely 
with M.A.G. to grow traffic, routes and jobs at Stansted Airport." "Our 8 new winter routes with multiple daily 
frequencies are ideal for business passengers or families booking a winter sun or ski getaway. Ryanair customers 
can also enjoy our recent customer service improvements including a second free carry-on bag, allocated seating 
and the use of portable electronic devices, with further improvements to be rolled out over the coming months."
Load-Date: March 21, 2014
End of Document
Italy slaps fines on airlines over travel insurance
Italy slaps fines on airlines over travel insurance
City A.M.
March 18, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 314 words
Byline: MARION DAKERS
Body
RYANAIR and EasyJet have been fined more than (EURO)1m for not being clear enough about the travel 
insurance they sell to Italian customers alongside flight bookings.
Italy's competition authority has imposed an (EURO)850,000 (£697,000) penalty on Ryanair and a (EURO)200,000 
fine for EasyJet for "unfair commercial practices".
The low-cost airlines failed to tell customers about the risks covered by the insurance policies and set excesses so 
high that they were sometimes more than the original cost of the ticket, the Autorita Garante della Concorrenza e 
del Mercato added.
Passengers who fail to board their flight have to get proof from the airline in order to claim on cancellation 
insurance. Ryanair charged customers (EURO)20 to obtain a certificate and EasyJet levied a (EURO)12 fee, which 
was slammed as unfair by the regulator as this confirmation "could be easily given to the insurance company 
without any burden to consumers".
The watchdog also criticised Ryanair's website for having the "do not need insurance" option lodged between the 
Netherlands and Norway on a drop-down menu entitled "select the country of residence". It said this set-up was 
"unfair, cumbersome and misleading".
The anti-trust body has given Ryanair 30 days to set out how it intends to make its optional flight cancellation 
insurance easier for consumers to understand.
Ryanair's fine was larger due to the scope of the breaches of Italy's consumer code and the fact that the airline has 
broken the code several times. It said EasyJet had already made efforts to fix its website.
Italy slaps fines on airlines over travel insurance
"We note this ruling and while we disagree with its findings and have instructed our lawyers to appeal, we will be 
amending our website accordingly," said a Ryanair spokesperson yesterday.
EasyJet, which uses Allianz to provide its insurance, said it has remedied the issues raised and that it was 
considering its options.
Load-Date: March 18, 2014
End of Document
Aircraft orders soar to 'unprecedented levels' Aerospace
Aircraft orders soar to 'unprecedented levels'; Aerospace
Financial Times (London, England)
March 17, 2014 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 14
Length: 253 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Body
Passengers can look forward to the prospect of cheaper air fares over the next few years because of airlines 
ordering new aircraft at a record rate, says a report.
"Airlines around the globe are replacing their fleet at unprecedented levels," said James Stamp, global head of 
aviation at KPMG. "Much of the order activity by legacy airlines is driven by the desire to cut operating costs. With 
fuel costs continuing to be at record levels and a new aircraft generation on the market which is up to 20 per cent 
more fuel efficient, this trend should not come as a surprise."
Low-cost airlines have been expanding their fleets more than other carriers - in Europe easyJet, Ryanair, and 
Norwegian Air Shuttle have placed orders in the past two years totalling hundreds of aircraft. The budget carriers 
have a backlog of orders extending six years beyond other airlines, to 2021.
Airlines have managed their seat capacity carefully to counter any downward pressure on ticket prices, KPMG said 
in a report, but the number of new aircraft due to come into service means there will be greater competition.
Falls in the price of a ticket would be dependent on orders being delivered as scheduled, and could be outweighed 
by any surge in the oil price that would push up fuel costs, the report added.
The full-service, network airlines have 5,168 aircraft on order and low-cost carriers 3,582, according to research by 
the Centre for Aviation.
Aircraft orders soar to 'unprecedented levels' Aerospace
Aircraft makers Airbus and Boeing also have record levels of aircraft on order.
Jane Wild 
Load-Date: March 16, 2014
End of Document
Profile: Carl and David McCann
Profile: Carl and David McCann
Sunday Business Post
March 16, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1866 words
Body
Fact file
**Carl and David McCann**
**Appearance:**The brothers' youthful features mask a patrician and aloof public persona
**Newsworthiness:**Fyffes, where David is the chief executive, recently announced a merger with Chiquita to 
create the world's largest banana company
.....
If the Irish Stock Exchange had an index of the personality types of its chief executives, unquestionably at one 
extreme end would be Ryanair's voluble and uncouth Michael O'Leary.
At the other end, equally doubtless, would be the controlled, patrician, and aloof McCann brothers -- Carl and David 
-- of the Fyffes fruit empire.
Last week David, the younger of the two, became chief executive of the world's largest fruit company, the soon to 
be merged ChiquitaFyffes company.
Carl, meanwhile, is chief executive of Total Produce, which was once a division of Fyffes, but was spun out in 2007. 
Though the two companies are often taken as part of the wider McCann fruit empire, they are entirely separate -- 
and the merger between Fyffes and Chiquita will widen that gap. But in temperament, publicly at least, the brothers 
couldn't be closer.
Consider, for example, the response given by David when in one of his rare interviews, given to a Sunday 
newspaper in the early 2000s, he was asked a simple question about his personal life.
''I don't do stuff like that. No nonsense like that. No family and no hobbies, no nonsense like that, he said.
Profile: Carl and David McCann
His brother Carl was not a whole lot more forthcoming in an interview a few years later with a daily newspaper. He 
did reveal that he used to run before he injured his knee and he waxed lyrical about his father's business acumen, 
but he also shut down any form of personal question. He left the flummoxed journalist to write: ''He will politely 
answer questions and seems happy enough to supply basic personal information, but nothing is volunteered or 
given away without consideration.
That careful protection of their interests is just as evident in other areas of their lives.
When men's clothing store owner Niall O'Farrell applied to redevelop his house on Shrewsbury Road, near David's 
house, the younger McCann filed an objection letter to planning authority An Bord Plean  ¡la that fashioned an 
unselfconscious elitism into a rapier with which he filleted O'Farrell's plans.
''Visitors to Shrewsbury Road are immediately struck by the mature, airy opulence of the streetscape, McCann's 
submission read. ''This is a notable feature. It affords the green context that adorns and complements the houses.
''Shrewsbury Road had acquired this exalted status by the mid-20th century. When the makers of the ever-popular 
property board game, Monopoly, came to produce an Irish edition, pride of place fell to Shrewsbury Road. That was 
in 1972. In achieving this accolade, the street matched the exclusivity set by its English counterpart at Mayfair.
''Shrewsbury Road is distinguished by an emphasis on secluded maturity. It is not a place for ostentatious 
braggadocio.
It amounted to a cutting evisceration of O'Farrell's plans.
Carl, too, has a slightly courtly air that disguises a fairly vicious pen when required, best encapsulated by one of 
several letters he wrote but never sent to Jim Flavin (former chief executive of Irish company DCC) as their 
relationship was souring. In one particularly difficult dispute over money, McCann wrote: ''Your . . . compulsion to 
dominate everyone and every meeting is well known . . . There is no excuse for bad manners, a bullying approach 
and a lack of courtesy, appreciation and respect for your elders . . . I do not know if your moodiness is random or 
related to other business hassles, but it is painful to deal with.
They did not inherit their demeanour from their father, Neil, who was best known for his warmth and populism, but 
they did inherit his ruthless business sense. And, more importantly, they inherited the Fyffes business strategy: 
growth through acquisition. In many ways, the merger with Chiquita is as much a product of historical momentum as 
it is a carefully-plotted corporate strategy.
**Banana empire**
The McCanns' banana empire stretches back three generations to their grandfather, Charles McCann, who set up 
his greengrocer's shop on Dublin's Clanbrassil Street in 1902. At the time, the fruit-selling business in Ireland was 
fractured between small shops and distributors, so Charlie's strategy was to bring them all together.
David and Carl's father Neil - known as Neily stepped in to run the business in 1954 after the death of his father and 
of his brother Jackie, and he set about accelerating the strategy, hoovering up a number of the Irish fruit and 
vegetable industry's traditional family-owned businesses. By the company's own account, in the quarter century 
after taking over the reins Neil McCann bought nearly 200 businesses of various sizes to create a company he 
named United Fruit Importers of Ireland.
During that period, both David and Carl had come aboard -- David after a law degree from UCD and time spent as a 
partner in a Dublin law firm, and Carl after training as an accountant at KPMG.
Through all of this, the McCann family business had maintained a solid relationship with Fyffes, a British banana 
company founded in 1880, when bananas first started arriving from the Canaries. And in 1986 -- with United Fruit 
Importers of Ireland having been renamed and restructured as Fruit Importers of Ireland Limited (FII) -- Neil 
McCann spotted the opportunity for more growth. FII bought Fyffes for £27 million. United Brands, shorn of Fyffes, 
Profile: Carl and David McCann
would go on to be renamed Chiquita. In the same year, the McCanns' company floated on the Irish Stock 
Exchange, becoming FII Fyffes and later simply Fyffes.
The expansion continued although Neil McCann, who had driven most of the strategy during the company's most 
aggressive expansionary phase, retired as chief executive in 1995 to be replaced by David and Carl -- as chief 
executive and executive chairman, respectively. Around the same time, they decided to split the fruit business into 
Fyffes, which would focus broadly on tropical produce including bananas and melons, and Total Produce, which 
would focus on fruit and vegetable distribution in Europe.
But not all of the growth under David and Carl would be as successful as the growth driven by Neil.
In fact, the brothers rushed headlong into the two biggest bubbles in recent memory: the dotcom bubble and the 
property bubble, costing them hundreds of millions of euro in losses.
In 2001, the brothers finally pulled the plug on worldoffruit.com, into which they had pumped around EUR 12 million 
(by Carl's reckoning) in an attempt to create an internet business through the planned fruitXchange trading 
operation.
The McCanns also spent a fortune on property acquisitions at the top of the market, launching a new entity called 
Blackrock International Land on the stock exchange with a property portfolio of nearly EUR 200 million.
Within a year the collapse in prices in Ireland had decimated the company, with assets dwarfed by the loans 
Blackrock had taken out to buy the properties. It was quietly delisted and its name changed to Balmoral, and the 
most recent set of Fyffes accounts note that its share of the remaining assets is now reduced to EUR 400,000. 
''Fyffes wrote down its investment in Balmoral to EUR 50,000 in 2011, the accounts report.
In 2007, Fyffes was embroiled in European Union competition investigation into the fixing of banana prices, 
alongside Chiquita, Dole and Del Monte, related to the sale of nearly EUR 3 billion worth of bananas between 2000 
and 2002. Fyffes and Chiquita were cleared, but such competition issues are a common symptom of an 
increasingly concentrated market, with four main players at the time and just three now.
The biggest controversy of all, though, was the lengthy insider trading case involving Jim Flavin of Irish investment 
company DCC, who had been a stalwart of Fyffes from the beginning. Flavin had been a key advisor to Neil 
McCann. In 2002, Fyffes sued DCC and a number of other companies claiming that DCC had sold off its shares in 
Fyffes while Flavin, who was a director of Fyffes at the time, was in possession of price-sensitive information, with 
DCC ultimately reaping a profit of EUR 106 million on the trade before Fyffes issued a profit warning that had the 
result of lowering the share price.
The lawsuit led to a long and unpleasant case over nearly 90 days that saw David McCann in particular dragged 
through seven days of detailed testimony.
In the end, the case was settled and Fyffes got EUR 42 million.
After three generations and more than a century of McCann control of the family business, the Chiquita deal 
represents a notable deviation from the family's usual modus operandi.
For starters, Fyffes is usually the suitor rather than the target, and the company can often spend millions a year on 
advisory fees for deals that may ultimately never go through. But in this case, Fyffes was not the instigator of the 
deal.
By David's own admission, it was Chiquita's chief executive Ed Lonergan who made the running, approaching 
David at a conference in New Orleans and proposing the idea. Since Chiquita's predecessor sold the McCanns the 
Fyffes brand in 1986, Fyffes and Chiquita have engaged in occasional flirtations, and McCann also said recently 
that there had been ''tentative discussions over many, many years between the two firms.
**Share price**
Profile: Carl and David McCann
Now, in fact, is probably not the best timing for the deal. Fyffes could easily have snapped up Chiquita in 2001 just 
before the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Or, had Chiquita been able to do so, any time in the preceding 
three years would have been a better time to buy Fyffes, when the company's share price was on the floor.
And while the structure of the deal is a roughly 50:50 merger, the scale of the American outfit is significantly greater. 
It has a market capitalisation of around EUR 580 million compared to Fyffes' EUR 380 million, it has 20,000 
employees compared to just over 2,500 for Fyffes and it has twice the sales globally. (Perhaps for those reasons, 
non-Irish news outlets such as the New York Times are describing this more like an acquisition for Chiquita than a 
merger of equals.).
Perhaps the biggest question for David McCann remains to be answered -- just who runs the company?
Some observers are claiming that the structure of the new company is a victory for Fyffes, who appear to have 
cannily won the battle to stack the board, where Fyffes' Tom Murphy as chief financial officer and Coen Bos as 
chief operating officer sit just under McCann as chief executive.
But Chiquita's Ed Lonergan is not just chairman in this structure, he's executive chairman.
It's not clear yet how the two roles will operate together, but history has shown that a saddle can't be shared, and it 
remains to be seen how well the two sides of the deal will play together.
Over the course of more than a century, the McCanns have tended to emerge holding the whip. Just ask Jim Flavin 
or Niall O'Farrell, or any of the absorbed companies that now make up the banana behemoth.
Reckoning with the giants of Chiquita, however, will prove to be their biggest test yet.
Load-Date: March 16, 2014
End of Document
Long shot leaps over March madness to claim Gold Cup
Long shot leaps over March madness to claim Gold Cup
Financial Times (London, England)
March 15, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 5
Length: 618 words
Byline: Matthew Engel
Body
The normal theatricals of the Cheltenham Gold Cup, the championship race of British steeplechasing, were 
subsumed yesterday into something far more all-embracing.
There was a courtroom drama, hospital dramas, personal dramas; history was made. And, oh, yes, there was an 
absolutely cracking horse race.
Lord Windermere, a 20-1 shot ridden by Davy Russell, became the longest-priced winner since 1998 after a thrilling 
battle with another Irish runner, On His Own.
But the joyous leaps of his trainer, Jim Culloty, were rudely interrupted by the announcement of a stewards' inquiry.
For 15 agonising minutes everything hung in mid-air as a sensational disqualification loomed. The jockeys gave 
evidence - broadcast after a few minutes' delay - in which the witnesses' honesty vied with the comradeship of the 
weighing room, with ambition, and with their obligation to win for the owners. Lord Windermere undoubtedly did 
nudge the runner-up off his line. Did that cost On His Own the race? "I felt with a straight run I would have won," 
said his jockey, David Casey. "Two strides after the line I was in front."
"Obviously I'd stopped riding by then," replied Russell.
Long shot leaps over March madness to claim Gold Cup
On an ordinary day the stewards might have reversed the result. But on such an occasion they were anxious to find 
doubt, and they gave Lord Windermere the benefit.
The celebrations then resumed, mainly from Culloty, who 10 years ago won this race on Best Mate for the third time 
running - but until yesterday he had not had a winner in more than six months.
He is only the fourth man to both ride and train a Gold Cup winner.
But there was far more to it than that. Russell had lately lost his plum job as jockey for the Gigginstown House Stud, 
which is the nom de guerre of the Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary. Casey had been given this ride only because the 
brilliant Ruby Walsh had broken his arm in the previous race.
Backers of Lord Windermere had long given up hope: Russell lost touch with the rest of the field from the start.
"I didn't use any petrol. The whole way round I was hunting. I went round the inside, the race had gone. I was just 
creeping away, creeping away. Then I thought: 'This fella has a chance at it,'" Russell said after the race.
This course has a stern uphill finish and energy conservation is vital; Russell had certainly achieved that.
"You've got to have balls to ride Cheltenham," said Culloty, before adding: "Halfway round, Davy was getting the 
sack."
In the end even the losing owner, Graham Wylie, was gracious to the victorious one, Dr Ronan Lambe. "I'm 
delighted to come second," said Wylie.
At the final fence, it looked like a straight fight between the reigning champ and hot favourite, Bobs Worth, and the 
other big fancy Silviniaco Conti. Both faded: third place went to the Gold Cup specialist, The Giant Bolster, second 
and fourth in 2012 and 2013.
After all that, it was hard to remember Daryl Jacob, stable jockey for Silviniaco Conti's trainer, Paul Nicholls. Before 
the Gold Cup his day went as follows: Race 1: a stirrup broke when he had a chance of winning; Race 2: victory, 
after a week of nothing but losers; Race 3: carted off to hospital after his horse threw him on to a tarmac path.
Hard also to remember the ubiquitous O'Leary. His horses had won the two earlier races not won by Jacob. His 
Gold Cup runner, Last Instalment, failed to finish. Had he won, the owner might have been booed at the 
presentation because the trainer, Philip Fenton, faces criminal proceedings for the alleged possession of anabolic 
steroids.
Plus, of course, O'Leary does sometimes have that effect on people, especially if they have consumed the amount 
of ale and Guinness customary at this annual outbreak of March madness.
Load-Date: March 14, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair announces new partnership with Travelport
Ryanair announces new partnership with Travelport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 14, 2014 Friday 6:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 335 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a distribution services and e-commerce 
provider for the travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's fares and route 
network.
Body
The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports, and No 1 or No 
2 market share in most of Europe's major travel markets, will enable Ryanair and Travelport to deliver a significant 
business travel platform, and allow Europe's largest businesses to save both time and money by flying Ryanair. 
This significant partnership follows recent technology developments from Travelport making it the ideal partner for 
Ryanair to target the travel industry channel. Ryanair continues to improve both its customer experience and 
offering and this partnership with Travelport, and the launch of a dedicated Ryanair group travel service, are the 
latest in a programme of developments, with a new business product set to be unveiled in the summer, along with a 
fully revamped Ryanair website, a brand new app and mobile boarding passes. 
In London, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "This partnership with Travelport is a significant 
development for Ryanair and for businesses across Europe and beyond as we continue to evolve our business 
offering. As Europe's largest airline, we'll carry over 81.5m customers this year on the largest route network, 
connecting 186 airports in 30 countries. "More than 22% of these customers already choose Ryanair for business 
travel and we expect that percentage to grow as this partnership allows corporate travel departments and 
businesses even greater access to Ryanair's low fares and routes, ensuring they save millions of euro in travel 
expenses every year." Travelport's Executive vice president & Chief Commercial Officer, Kurt Ekert said: "We're 
excited that Europe's largest low fares airline has selected Travelport as its partner and is fully embracing what we 
can uniquely offer through our industry-leading airline distribution technology. We look forward to working together 
to help Ryanair achieve its business ambitions and extend its extensive choice of low fares to travel agency 
customers worldwide."
Load-Date: March 20, 2014
Ryanair announces new partnership with Travelport
End of Document
Benefficient can give Ireland a long overdue success in the Ryanair BILL ESDAILE PREVIEWS THE RYANAIR 
CHASE AND THE KIM MUIR
Benefficient can give Ireland a long overdue success in the Ryanair; BILL 
ESDAILE PREVIEWS THE RYANAIR CHASE AND THE KIM MUIR
City A.M.
March 13, 2014 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 25
Length: 761 words
Byline: BILL ESDAILE
Body
THE outspoken Michael O'Leary has made no secret of his desire to see one of his horses, running in the famous 
maroon Gigginstown Stud colours, win the race sponsored by the airline that made his fortune.
Apart from the inaugural running of this Grade One contest in 2005, the Festival Trophy has run as the Ryanair 
Chase and an Irish horse is still yet to win.
There is a really strong challenge from across the Irish Sea this year, though, and I'm expecting BENEFFICIENT to 
follow up his win last term here in the JLT Novices' Chase.
We've seen already in the last couple of days with the likes of Champagne Fever, Quevega and Holywell how 
previous Festival form is so important. Benefficient caused a bit of a surprise when lowering the colours of favourite 
Dynaste last year - who reopposes as BetBright's joint 18/5 favourite here - but won the JLT on the back of a Grade 
One victory. Odds of 20/1 were generous in hindsight.
Tony Martin's horse is less than a fifth of those odds today but the bestpriced 18/5 with BetBright still looks fair 
value. What I like about this horse is he's a real tough and durable character, who can generally be relied on to give 
his running.
Once more the eight-year-old comes to Prestbury Park on the back of a toplevel win after beating a high-class field 
at Leopardstown last December. With the likes of Hidden Cyclone, Arvika Ligeonniere, Sizing Europe and Baily 
Green all behind him that day, Benefficient's form is arguably the strongest on offer.
Benefficient can give Ireland a long overdue success in the Ryanair BILL ESDAILE PREVIEWS THE RYANAIR 
CHASE AND THE KIM MUIR
BetBright are offering new customers a fantastic £30 risk-free bet on any race at Cheltenham this week and 
Martin's beast could set you up nicely.
O'Leary's wait for a winner in his race is set to continue as I don't think his admirable representative Rathlin is quite 
top-class. A good money spinner for connections, he's been found out in lesser races before and a weak Grade 
Two win back in early 2012 is his only Graded honour.
David Pipe and Tom Scudamore have had a decent couple of days and Dynaste is very good, but was beaten by 
Benefficient 12 months ago and there's no real reason to expect him to reverse form. The grey also arrives on the 
back of a flop in the King George and has a bit to prove.
Al Ferof has great Cheltenham form but had a hard race on really heavy ground last month and has yet to win a 
Grade One chase in open company.
Boston Bob is all or nothing over fences, winning twice and falling twice. He reverts from a couple of spins over 
hurdles to the bigger obstacles, but you'd be brave to take a chance on the 10/1 shot with his inconsistent profile.
Those looking for a place angle might want to consider the consistent Hidden Cyclone. Andrew McNamara's mount 
has only once been out of the frame in 12 chase starts and was runner-up to my selection earlier this season, and 
then again to Champion Chase winner Sire De Grugy in January. The rest just aren't good enough and that's 
reflected in their big double-figure prices.
However, I'm happy to stick with Benefficient to finally give Ireland the winner that has eluded them for the past nine 
years. The Kim Muir Handicap Chase (4.40pm) has been a good Grand National trial in recent years. Ballabriggs 
won it in 2010, the year before he went on to taste Aintree success, and Sunnyhillboy was denied by the narrowest 
of noses in the 2012 National, having won this handicap the previous month.
I'm not sure if this year's National winner is lurking in the field, but it looks a decent renewal and the first port of call 
has to be Indian Castle who was so impressive here on Trials Day.
Donald McCain loves to target this race and his Super Duty was just touched off last year. He has booked leading 
amateur Derek O'Connor and Indian Castle must have a great chance.
However, I get the feeling he might be a little better on softer ground and at the prices I'm going to take him on with 
Gordon Elliott's CAUSE OF CAUSES.
This six-year-old won last season's Ladbroke Hurdle at Ascot and he is proven on all types of ground. AP McCoy 
and Cause Of Causes just failed to beat Ruby Walsh and Rockyaboya in the Paddy Power Chase at Leopardstown 
over Christmas.
Elliott has put him away since then and Nina Carberry is a positive jockey booking, so take the 7/1 available with 
Star Sports.
Jonjo O'Neill is the master of the Cheltenham handicaps and I would suggest having a saver on his TWIRLING 
MAGNET at around the 20/1 mark. He needs decent ground and was a good winner here back in October.
Pointers… BENEFFICIENT 2.40pm Cheltenham CAUSE OF CAUSES 4.40pm Cheltenham TWIRLING MAGNET 
e/w 4.40pm Cheltenham @BillEsdaile
Graphic
 
Benefficient can give Ireland a long overdue success in the Ryanair BILL ESDAILE PREVIEWS THE RYANAIR 
CHASE AND THE KIM MUIR
Benefficient on course for more Festival glory
Load-Date: March 13, 2014
End of Document
Travel agents welcome Ryanair deal Ryanair Deal
Travel agents welcome Ryanair deal; Ryanair Deal
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 208 words
Highlight: The Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA) today said it welcomes the announcement that Ryanair has 
signed a partnership deal with Travelport.
Body
The Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA) today said it welcomes the announcement that Ryanair has signed a 
partnership deal with Travelport.
The move will make it easier for travel agents to access Ryanair flight bookings both online and offline through the 
Travelport interface.
Pat Dawson, CEO of the ITAA said, "The ITAA are delighted with the announcement that Ryanair and Travelport 
will be working in partnership. The move will make it easier for our travel agents to book air fares efficiently and it 
will be particularly of use for business travel. Anything that allows us to offer better value, security and choice to 
Irish consumers will always be met with open arms."
Travelport are a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider globally and Ryanair hopes that this new 
distribution deal will see their business travel double over the next two years. The Irish Travel Agents Association 
represents Ireland's travel industry and was founded in 1971. The Association brings together 100 member 
companies covering 161 outlets in different towns and cities throughout the Republic of Ireland. ITAA members are 
licensed by the Commisson for Aviation Regulation and fully bonded providing full financial protection for their 
customers.
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
Travel agents welcome Ryanair deal Ryanair Deal
Travel agents welcome Ryanair deal; Ryanair Deal
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 208 words
Highlight: The Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA) today said it welcomes the announcement that Ryanair has 
signed a partnership deal with Travelport.
Body
The Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA) today said it welcomes the announcement that Ryanair has signed a 
partnership deal with Travelport.
The move will make it easier for travel agents to access Ryanair flight bookings both online and offline through the 
Travelport interface.
Pat Dawson, CEO of the ITAA said, "The ITAA are delighted with the announcement that Ryanair and Travelport 
will be working in partnership. The move will make it easier for our travel agents to book air fares efficiently and it 
will be particularly of use for business travel. Anything that allows us to offer better value, security and choice to 
Irish consumers will always be met with open arms."
Travelport are a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider globally and Ryanair hopes that this new 
distribution deal will see their business travel double over the next two years. The Irish Travel Agents Association 
represents Ireland's travel industry and was founded in 1971. The Association brings together 100 member 
companies covering 161 outlets in different towns and cities throughout the Republic of Ireland. ITAA members are 
licensed by the Commisson for Aviation Regulation and fully bonded providing full financial protection for their 
customers.
Load-Date: March 14, 2014
End of Document
Travel agents welcome Ryanair deal Ryanair Deal
Travel agents welcome Ryanair deal; Ryanair Deal
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 208 words
Highlight: The Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA) today said it welcomes the announcement that Ryanair has 
signed a partnership deal with Travelport.
Body
The Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA) today said it welcomes the announcement that Ryanair has signed a 
partnership deal with Travelport.
The move will make it easier for travel agents to access Ryanair flight bookings both online and offline through the 
Travelport interface.
Pat Dawson, CEO of the ITAA said, "The ITAA are delighted with the announcement that Ryanair and Travelport 
will be working in partnership. The move will make it easier for our travel agents to book air fares efficiently and it 
will be particularly of use for business travel. Anything that allows us to offer better value, security and choice to 
Irish consumers will always be met with open arms."
Travelport are a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider globally and Ryanair hopes that this new 
distribution deal will see their business travel double over the next two years. The Irish Travel Agents Association 
represents Ireland's travel industry and was founded in 1971. The Association brings together 100 member 
companies covering 161 outlets in different towns and cities throughout the Republic of Ireland. ITAA members are 
licensed by the Commisson for Aviation Regulation and fully bonded providing full financial protection for their 
customers.
Load-Date: March 17, 2014
End of Document
Travel agents welcome Ryanair deal Ryanair Deal
Travel agents welcome Ryanair deal; Ryanair Deal
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 208 words
Highlight: The Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA) today said it welcomes the announcement that Ryanair has 
signed a partnership deal with Travelport.
Body
The Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA) today said it welcomes the announcement that Ryanair has signed a 
partnership deal with Travelport.
The move will make it easier for travel agents to access Ryanair flight bookings both online and offline through the 
Travelport interface.
Pat Dawson, CEO of the ITAA said, "The ITAA are delighted with the announcement that Ryanair and Travelport 
will be working in partnership. The move will make it easier for our travel agents to book air fares efficiently and it 
will be particularly of use for business travel. Anything that allows us to offer better value, security and choice to 
Irish consumers will always be met with open arms."
Travelport are a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider globally and Ryanair hopes that this new 
distribution deal will see their business travel double over the next two years. The Irish Travel Agents Association 
represents Ireland's travel industry and was founded in 1971. The Association brings together 100 member 
companies covering 161 outlets in different towns and cities throughout the Republic of Ireland. ITAA members are 
licensed by the Commisson for Aviation Regulation and fully bonded providing full financial protection for their 
customers.
Load-Date: March 13, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps ISEQ Falls
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 393 words
Highlight: The ISEQ slipped further in to the red this morning but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia 
stocks.
Body
The ISEQ slipped further in to the red this morning but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
By 12:45, the index was down 37.43 points to 5,012.47.
Shares in food group, Glanbia, rose 21c to E11.20 after it reported results ahead of expectations this morning with 
total group revenue rising by 8pc to E3.28 billion. Earnings for the year to the end of December - before the 
deduction of interest, taxes and other expenses - climbed 5.5pc higher to E226.7m. The growth was mainly driven 
by performance in two areas - global performance nutrition and global ingredients. The group is guiding 8-10pc EPS 
growth on a constant currency basis this year with similar growth predicted up to 2018. Glanbia said it was 
recommending a final dividend of 5.97 cents per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 10 cent per 
share, up 10pc on 2012. "Glanbia had another year of double digit earnings growth in 2013 as the group delivered a 
12pc increase in adjusted earnings per share," commented the company's new group managing director Siobhan 
Talbot.
Financial services group, IFG, today said it has agreed to sell its UK-based IFG Financial Services for an initial 
consideration of £3.5 million. The agreement to sell represents the final step of the company's strategy of selling off 
its non-core businesses. The Irish firm has signed an agreement for the sale of its UK traditional IFA business (IFG 
Financial Services) to Ascot Lloyd, where it will be merged with their existing IFA business. The businesses are IFG 
Financial Services Limited, John Siddalls Limited and Berkeley Jacobs Limited. Shares in the group fell 2c to E1.65. 
Ryanair has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider 
for the global travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's route network. 
"The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports and number-
one or number-two market share in most of Europe's major travel markets will enable Ryanair and Travelport to 
deliver a significant business travel platform. This significant partnership follows recent technology developments 
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps ISEQ Falls
from Travelport, making it the ideal partner for Ryanair to target the travel industry channel," said Davy. Ryanair 
stocks fell 6c to E7.29.
Load-Date: March 13, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps ISEQ Falls
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 393 words
Highlight: The ISEQ slipped further in to the red this morning but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia 
stocks.
Body
The ISEQ slipped further in to the red this morning but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
By 12:45, the index was down 37.43 points to 5,012.47.
Shares in food group, Glanbia, rose 21c to E11.20 after it reported results ahead of expectations this morning with 
total group revenue rising by 8pc to E3.28 billion. Earnings for the year to the end of December - before the 
deduction of interest, taxes and other expenses - climbed 5.5pc higher to E226.7m. The growth was mainly driven 
by performance in two areas - global performance nutrition and global ingredients. The group is guiding 8-10pc EPS 
growth on a constant currency basis this year with similar growth predicted up to 2018. Glanbia said it was 
recommending a final dividend of 5.97 cents per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 10 cent per 
share, up 10pc on 2012. "Glanbia had another year of double digit earnings growth in 2013 as the group delivered a 
12pc increase in adjusted earnings per share," commented the company's new group managing director Siobhan 
Talbot.
Financial services group, IFG, today said it has agreed to sell its UK-based IFG Financial Services for an initial 
consideration of £3.5 million. The agreement to sell represents the final step of the company's strategy of selling off 
its non-core businesses. The Irish firm has signed an agreement for the sale of its UK traditional IFA business (IFG 
Financial Services) to Ascot Lloyd, where it will be merged with their existing IFA business. The businesses are IFG 
Financial Services Limited, John Siddalls Limited and Berkeley Jacobs Limited. Shares in the group fell 2c to E1.65. 
Ryanair has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider 
for the global travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's route network. 
"The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports and number-
one or number-two market share in most of Europe's major travel markets will enable Ryanair and Travelport to 
deliver a significant business travel platform. This significant partnership follows recent technology developments 
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps ISEQ Falls
from Travelport, making it the ideal partner for Ryanair to target the travel industry channel," said Davy. Ryanair 
stocks fell 6c to E7.29.
Load-Date: March 17, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps; ISEQ Falls
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 393 words
Highlight: The ISEQ slipped further in to the red this morning but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia 
stocks.
Body
The ISEQ slipped further in to the red this morning but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
By 12:45, the index was down 37.43 points to 5,012.47.
Shares in food group, Glanbia, rose 21c to E11.20 after it reported results ahead of expectations this morning with 
total group revenue rising by 8pc to E3.28 billion. Earnings for the year to the end of December - before the 
deduction of interest, taxes and other expenses - climbed 5.5pc higher to E226.7m. The growth was mainly driven 
by performance in two areas - global performance nutrition and global ingredients. The group is guiding 8-10pc EPS 
growth on a constant currency basis this year with similar growth predicted up to 2018. Glanbia said it was 
recommending a final dividend of 5.97 cents per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 10 cent per 
share, up 10pc on 2012. "Glanbia had another year of double digit earnings growth in 2013 as the group delivered a 
12pc increase in adjusted earnings per share," commented the company's new group managing director Siobhan 
Talbot.
Financial services group, IFG, today said it has agreed to sell its UK-based IFG Financial Services for an initial 
consideration of £3.5 million. The agreement to sell represents the final step of the company's strategy of selling off 
its non-core businesses. The Irish firm has signed an agreement for the sale of its UK traditional IFA business (IFG 
Financial Services) to Ascot Lloyd, where it will be merged with their existing IFA business. The businesses are IFG 
Financial Services Limited, John Siddalls Limited and Berkeley Jacobs Limited. Shares in the group fell 2c to E1.65. 
Ryanair has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider 
for the global travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's route network. 
"The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports and number-
one or number-two market share in most of Europe's major travel markets will enable Ryanair and Travelport to 
deliver a significant business travel platform. This significant partnership follows recent technology developments 
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps; ISEQ Falls
from Travelport, making it the ideal partner for Ryanair to target the travel industry channel," said Davy. Ryanair 
stocks fell 6c to E7.29.
Load-Date: March 14, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps ISEQ Falls
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 393 words
Highlight: The ISEQ slipped further in to the red this morning but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia 
stocks.
Body
The ISEQ slipped further in to the red this morning but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
By 12:45, the index was down 37.43 points to 5,012.47.
Shares in food group, Glanbia, rose 21c to E11.20 after it reported results ahead of expectations this morning with 
total group revenue rising by 8pc to E3.28 billion. Earnings for the year to the end of December - before the 
deduction of interest, taxes and other expenses - climbed 5.5pc higher to E226.7m. The growth was mainly driven 
by performance in two areas - global performance nutrition and global ingredients. The group is guiding 8-10pc EPS 
growth on a constant currency basis this year with similar growth predicted up to 2018. Glanbia said it was 
recommending a final dividend of 5.97 cents per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 10 cent per 
share, up 10pc on 2012. "Glanbia had another year of double digit earnings growth in 2013 as the group delivered a 
12pc increase in adjusted earnings per share," commented the company's new group managing director Siobhan 
Talbot.
Financial services group, IFG, today said it has agreed to sell its UK-based IFG Financial Services for an initial 
consideration of £3.5 million. The agreement to sell represents the final step of the company's strategy of selling off 
its non-core businesses. The Irish firm has signed an agreement for the sale of its UK traditional IFA business (IFG 
Financial Services) to Ascot Lloyd, where it will be merged with their existing IFA business. The businesses are IFG 
Financial Services Limited, John Siddalls Limited and Berkeley Jacobs Limited. Shares in the group fell 2c to E1.65. 
Ryanair has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider 
for the global travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's route network. 
"The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports and number-
one or number-two market share in most of Europe's major travel markets will enable Ryanair and Travelport to 
deliver a significant business travel platform. This significant partnership follows recent technology developments 
ISEQ slips in to red but Glanbia helps ISEQ Falls
from Travelport, making it the ideal partner for Ryanair to target the travel industry channel," said Davy. Ryanair 
stocks fell 6c to E7.29.
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia ISEQ Falls
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 390 words
Highlight: The ISEQ slipped further in to the red today but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
Body
The ISEQ slipped further in to the red today but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
The index was down 68.62 points to 5,001.28.
Shares in food group, Glanbia, rose 22c to E11.21 after it reported results ahead of expectations this morning with 
total group revenue rising by 8pc to E3.28 billion. Earnings for the year to the end of December - before the 
deduction of interest, taxes and other expenses - climbed 5.5pc higher to E226.7m. The growth was mainly driven 
by performance in two areas - global performance nutrition and global ingredients. The group is guiding 8-10pc EPS 
growth on a constant currency basis this year with similar growth predicted up to 2018. Glanbia said it was 
recommending a final dividend of 5.97 cents per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 10 cent per 
share, up 10pc on 2012. "Glanbia had another year of double digit earnings growth in 2013 as the group delivered a 
12pc increase in adjusted earnings per share," commented the company's new group managing director Siobhan 
Talbot.
Financial services group, IFG, today said it has agreed to sell its UK-based IFG Financial Services for an initial 
consideration of £3.5 million. The agreement to sell represents the final step of the company's strategy of selling off 
its non-core businesses. The Irish firm has signed an agreement for the sale of its UK traditional IFA business (IFG 
Financial Services) to Ascot Lloyd, where it will be merged with their existing IFA business. The businesses are IFG 
Financial Services Limited, John Siddalls Limited and Berkeley Jacobs Limited. Shares in the group fell 1c to E1.66. 
Ryanair has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider 
for the global travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's route network. 
"The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports and number-
one or number-two market share in most of Europe's major travel markets will enable Ryanair and Travelport to 
deliver a significant business travel platform. This significant partnership follows recent technology developments 
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia ISEQ Falls
from Travelport, making it the ideal partner for Ryanair to target the travel industry channel," said Davy. Ryanair 
stocks fell 6c to E7.29.
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia ISEQ Falls
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 390 words
Highlight: The ISEQ slipped further in to the red today but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
Body
The ISEQ slipped further in to the red today but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
The index was down 68.62 points to 5,001.28.
Shares in food group, Glanbia, rose 22c to E11.21 after it reported results ahead of expectations this morning with 
total group revenue rising by 8pc to E3.28 billion. Earnings for the year to the end of December - before the 
deduction of interest, taxes and other expenses - climbed 5.5pc higher to E226.7m. The growth was mainly driven 
by performance in two areas - global performance nutrition and global ingredients. The group is guiding 8-10pc EPS 
growth on a constant currency basis this year with similar growth predicted up to 2018. Glanbia said it was 
recommending a final dividend of 5.97 cents per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 10 cent per 
share, up 10pc on 2012. "Glanbia had another year of double digit earnings growth in 2013 as the group delivered a 
12pc increase in adjusted earnings per share," commented the company's new group managing director Siobhan 
Talbot.
Financial services group, IFG, today said it has agreed to sell its UK-based IFG Financial Services for an initial 
consideration of £3.5 million. The agreement to sell represents the final step of the company's strategy of selling off 
its non-core businesses. The Irish firm has signed an agreement for the sale of its UK traditional IFA business (IFG 
Financial Services) to Ascot Lloyd, where it will be merged with their existing IFA business. The businesses are IFG 
Financial Services Limited, John Siddalls Limited and Berkeley Jacobs Limited. Shares in the group fell 1c to E1.66. 
Ryanair has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider 
for the global travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's route network. 
"The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports and number-
one or number-two market share in most of Europe's major travel markets will enable Ryanair and Travelport to 
deliver a significant business travel platform. This significant partnership follows recent technology developments 
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia ISEQ Falls
from Travelport, making it the ideal partner for Ryanair to target the travel industry channel," said Davy. Ryanair 
stocks fell 6c to E7.29.
Load-Date: March 14, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia ISEQ Falls
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 390 words
Highlight: The ISEQ slipped further in to the red today but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
Body
The ISEQ slipped further in to the red today but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
The index was down 68.62 points to 5,001.28.
Shares in food group, Glanbia, rose 22c to E11.21 after it reported results ahead of expectations this morning with 
total group revenue rising by 8pc to E3.28 billion. Earnings for the year to the end of December - before the 
deduction of interest, taxes and other expenses - climbed 5.5pc higher to E226.7m. The growth was mainly driven 
by performance in two areas - global performance nutrition and global ingredients. The group is guiding 8-10pc EPS 
growth on a constant currency basis this year with similar growth predicted up to 2018. Glanbia said it was 
recommending a final dividend of 5.97 cents per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 10 cent per 
share, up 10pc on 2012. "Glanbia had another year of double digit earnings growth in 2013 as the group delivered a 
12pc increase in adjusted earnings per share," commented the company's new group managing director Siobhan 
Talbot.
Financial services group, IFG, today said it has agreed to sell its UK-based IFG Financial Services for an initial 
consideration of £3.5 million. The agreement to sell represents the final step of the company's strategy of selling off 
its non-core businesses. The Irish firm has signed an agreement for the sale of its UK traditional IFA business (IFG 
Financial Services) to Ascot Lloyd, where it will be merged with their existing IFA business. The businesses are IFG 
Financial Services Limited, John Siddalls Limited and Berkeley Jacobs Limited. Shares in the group fell 1c to E1.66. 
Ryanair has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider 
for the global travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's route network. 
"The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports and number-
one or number-two market share in most of Europe's major travel markets will enable Ryanair and Travelport to 
deliver a significant business travel platform. This significant partnership follows recent technology developments 
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia ISEQ Falls
from Travelport, making it the ideal partner for Ryanair to target the travel industry channel," said Davy. Ryanair 
stocks fell 6c to E7.29.
Load-Date: March 13, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia ISEQ Falls
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 390 words
Highlight: The ISEQ slipped further in to the red today but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
Body
The ISEQ slipped further in to the red today but with the decline held back by a rise in Glanbia stocks.
The index was down 68.62 points to 5,001.28.
Shares in food group, Glanbia, rose 22c to E11.21 after it reported results ahead of expectations this morning with 
total group revenue rising by 8pc to E3.28 billion. Earnings for the year to the end of December - before the 
deduction of interest, taxes and other expenses - climbed 5.5pc higher to E226.7m. The growth was mainly driven 
by performance in two areas - global performance nutrition and global ingredients. The group is guiding 8-10pc EPS 
growth on a constant currency basis this year with similar growth predicted up to 2018. Glanbia said it was 
recommending a final dividend of 5.97 cents per share. This brings the total dividend for the year to 10 cent per 
share, up 10pc on 2012. "Glanbia had another year of double digit earnings growth in 2013 as the group delivered a 
12pc increase in adjusted earnings per share," commented the company's new group managing director Siobhan 
Talbot.
Financial services group, IFG, today said it has agreed to sell its UK-based IFG Financial Services for an initial 
consideration of £3.5 million. The agreement to sell represents the final step of the company's strategy of selling off 
its non-core businesses. The Irish firm has signed an agreement for the sale of its UK traditional IFA business (IFG 
Financial Services) to Ascot Lloyd, where it will be merged with their existing IFA business. The businesses are IFG 
Financial Services Limited, John Siddalls Limited and Berkeley Jacobs Limited. Shares in the group fell 1c to E1.66. 
Ryanair has announced a new partnership with Travelport, a leading distribution services and e-commerce provider 
for the global travel industry, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide access to Ryanair's route network. 
"The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports and number-
one or number-two market share in most of Europe's major travel markets will enable Ryanair and Travelport to 
deliver a significant business travel platform. This significant partnership follows recent technology developments 
ISEQ falls sharply despite Glanbia ISEQ Falls
from Travelport, making it the ideal partner for Ryanair to target the travel industry channel," said Davy. Ryanair 
stocks fell 6c to E7.29.
Load-Date: March 17, 2014
End of Document
Roundup- Ryanair targets business flyers News Roundup
Roundup-Ryanair targets business flyers; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 718 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced plans to double the number of business passengers it currently has by selling 
through a global distribution system (GDS)
Body
Ryanair has announced plans to double the number of business passengers it currently has by selling through a 
global distribution system (GDS) for the first time in more than a decade.
The no-frills airline is partnering with the e-commerce travel provider Travelport GDS to make its fares available 
through its network starting next week.
The deal means Ryanair flights will now be available for booking via third party agents .
The move is one of in series of new measures by the airline to attract additional business travellers.
Travelport, which has a presence in 170 countries, is comprised of a global distribution system business, that 
includes the Galileo and Worldspan brands, its Airline IT Solutions business and a majority joint venture ownership 
in eNett. "We're excited that Europe's largest low fares airline has selected Travelport as its partner and is fully 
embracing what we can uniquely offer through our industry-leading airline distribution technology," said the group's 
executive vice president and chief commercial officer, Kurt Ekert. The Irish Times XXXX Former Fine Gael 
strategist Frank Flannery was paid E60,000-a-year by a charity in a campaign to seek tax changes from the 
Government to boost philanthropic donations from wealthy people. The contract was with Philanthropy Ireland, an 
association of foundations which was a member of a forum chaired by Mr Flannery that brings State and private 
interests together to promote philanthropy. Mr Flannery's work for the Forum on Philanthropy was unpaid, but 
Philanthropy Ireland engaged him on a consultancy contract in mid-2012 to promote the forum's blueprint to revive 
donations in the wake of the financial crisis. The Irish Times XXXX Food group Glanbia has reported an increase in 
revenues and earnings in 2013 boosted by a strong performance at its sports nutrition division. Earnings were up 
5.6pc to E226.7m while revenues hit E3.3bn, an 8pc increase at the nutrition and ingredients group. "We are 
guiding 8pc to 10pc growth in adjusted earnings per share for the full year 2014, on a constant currency basis," said 
Roundup- Ryanair targets business flyers News Roundup
Siobhan Talbot, group managing director at Glanbia. "Our ambition is to continue to deliver a similar annual organic 
growth rate through to 2018, while seeking to sustain a return on capital employed in excess of 12pc." The Irish 
Independent XXXX Twelve senior staff on the management team at Rehab Group earn more than E100,000 a year, 
the embattled charity and commercial organisation has disclosed. Some executives also earned bonuses of up to 
E14,200 as recently as two years ago and all of them have "a contractual entitlement to performance-related pay" 
while others have company cars. The head of the Dail's spending watchdog, Public Accounts Committee (PAC) 
chairman John McGuinness, described the sums as "excessive for the charity sector". The disclosures were made 
after the group, which received E83m in state funding last year, came under massive political pressure to reveal the 
pay of senior staff following controversy over the E240,000 salary of chief executive Angela Kerins. The Irish 
Independent XXXX A senior official at the Financial Regulator says he may have come up with the idea of putting 
together a group of wealthy individuals to buy Sean Quinn's stake in Anglo Irish Bank. And regulators knew that the 
deal to buy the Sean Quinn stake could involve some financing from the bank. That's all according to evidence from 
Con Horan who was second-in-command at the Financial Regulator at the time of the 2008 deal. Mr Horan was 
giving evidence yesterday at Dublin Circuit Criminal Court in the trial of three former Anglo Irish Bank directors 
accused of allowing the bank to illegally provide loans used to fund the acquisition of the shares in the bank. The 
three accused men are Sean FitzPatrick (65), from Greystones, Co Wicklow; William McAteer (63), of Rathgar in 
Dublin; and Patrick Whelan (51), of Malahide, Co Dublin. They are charged with 16 counts each of providing 
unlawful financial assistance to 16 individuals in July 2008 to buy shares in Anglo Irish Bank. The 16 are members 
of the Quinn family plus the so-called 'Maple 10'; a group of 10 former large-scale customers of Anglo Irish Bank. 
The three men have pleaded not guilty to all of the charges. The Irish Independent
Load-Date: March 13, 2014
End of Document
Roundup- Ryanair targets business flyers News Roundup
Roundup-Ryanair targets business flyers; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 718 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced plans to double the number of business passengers it currently has by selling 
through a global distribution system (GDS)
Body
Ryanair has announced plans to double the number of business passengers it currently has by selling through a 
global distribution system (GDS) for the first time in more than a decade.
The no-frills airline is partnering with the e-commerce travel provider Travelport GDS to make its fares available 
through its network starting next week.
The deal means Ryanair flights will now be available for booking via third party agents .
The move is one of in series of new measures by the airline to attract additional business travellers.
Travelport, which has a presence in 170 countries, is comprised of a global distribution system business, that 
includes the Galileo and Worldspan brands, its Airline IT Solutions business and a majority joint venture ownership 
in eNett. "We're excited that Europe's largest low fares airline has selected Travelport as its partner and is fully 
embracing what we can uniquely offer through our industry-leading airline distribution technology," said the group's 
executive vice president and chief commercial officer, Kurt Ekert. The Irish Times XXXX Former Fine Gael 
strategist Frank Flannery was paid E60,000-a-year by a charity in a campaign to seek tax changes from the 
Government to boost philanthropic donations from wealthy people. The contract was with Philanthropy Ireland, an 
association of foundations which was a member of a forum chaired by Mr Flannery that brings State and private 
interests together to promote philanthropy. Mr Flannery's work for the Forum on Philanthropy was unpaid, but 
Philanthropy Ireland engaged him on a consultancy contract in mid-2012 to promote the forum's blueprint to revive 
donations in the wake of the financial crisis. The Irish Times XXXX Food group Glanbia has reported an increase in 
revenues and earnings in 2013 boosted by a strong performance at its sports nutrition division. Earnings were up 
5.6pc to E226.7m while revenues hit E3.3bn, an 8pc increase at the nutrition and ingredients group. "We are 
guiding 8pc to 10pc growth in adjusted earnings per share for the full year 2014, on a constant currency basis," said 
Roundup- Ryanair targets business flyers News Roundup
Siobhan Talbot, group managing director at Glanbia. "Our ambition is to continue to deliver a similar annual organic 
growth rate through to 2018, while seeking to sustain a return on capital employed in excess of 12pc." The Irish 
Independent XXXX Twelve senior staff on the management team at Rehab Group earn more than E100,000 a year, 
the embattled charity and commercial organisation has disclosed. Some executives also earned bonuses of up to 
E14,200 as recently as two years ago and all of them have "a contractual entitlement to performance-related pay" 
while others have company cars. The head of the Dail's spending watchdog, Public Accounts Committee (PAC) 
chairman John McGuinness, described the sums as "excessive for the charity sector". The disclosures were made 
after the group, which received E83m in state funding last year, came under massive political pressure to reveal the 
pay of senior staff following controversy over the E240,000 salary of chief executive Angela Kerins. The Irish 
Independent XXXX A senior official at the Financial Regulator says he may have come up with the idea of putting 
together a group of wealthy individuals to buy Sean Quinn's stake in Anglo Irish Bank. And regulators knew that the 
deal to buy the Sean Quinn stake could involve some financing from the bank. That's all according to evidence from 
Con Horan who was second-in-command at the Financial Regulator at the time of the 2008 deal. Mr Horan was 
giving evidence yesterday at Dublin Circuit Criminal Court in the trial of three former Anglo Irish Bank directors 
accused of allowing the bank to illegally provide loans used to fund the acquisition of the shares in the bank. The 
three accused men are Sean FitzPatrick (65), from Greystones, Co Wicklow; William McAteer (63), of Rathgar in 
Dublin; and Patrick Whelan (51), of Malahide, Co Dublin. They are charged with 16 counts each of providing 
unlawful financial assistance to 16 individuals in July 2008 to buy shares in Anglo Irish Bank. The 16 are members 
of the Quinn family plus the so-called 'Maple 10'; a group of 10 former large-scale customers of Anglo Irish Bank. 
The three men have pleaded not guilty to all of the charges. The Irish Independent
Load-Date: March 14, 2014
End of Document
Roundup- Ryanair targets business flyers News Roundup
Roundup-Ryanair targets business flyers; News Roundup
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 718 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced plans to double the number of business passengers it currently has by selling 
through a global distribution system (GDS)
Body
Ryanair has announced plans to double the number of business passengers it currently has by selling through a 
global distribution system (GDS) for the first time in more than a decade.
The no-frills airline is partnering with the e-commerce travel provider Travelport GDS to make its fares available 
through its network starting next week.
The deal means Ryanair flights will now be available for booking via third party agents .
The move is one of in series of new measures by the airline to attract additional business travellers.
Travelport, which has a presence in 170 countries, is comprised of a global distribution system business, that 
includes the Galileo and Worldspan brands, its Airline IT Solutions business and a majority joint venture ownership 
in eNett. "We're excited that Europe's largest low fares airline has selected Travelport as its partner and is fully 
embracing what we can uniquely offer through our industry-leading airline distribution technology," said the group's 
executive vice president and chief commercial officer, Kurt Ekert. The Irish Times XXXX Former Fine Gael 
strategist Frank Flannery was paid E60,000-a-year by a charity in a campaign to seek tax changes from the 
Government to boost philanthropic donations from wealthy people. The contract was with Philanthropy Ireland, an 
association of foundations which was a member of a forum chaired by Mr Flannery that brings State and private 
interests together to promote philanthropy. Mr Flannery's work for the Forum on Philanthropy was unpaid, but 
Philanthropy Ireland engaged him on a consultancy contract in mid-2012 to promote the forum's blueprint to revive 
donations in the wake of the financial crisis. The Irish Times XXXX Food group Glanbia has reported an increase in 
revenues and earnings in 2013 boosted by a strong performance at its sports nutrition division. Earnings were up 
5.6pc to E226.7m while revenues hit E3.3bn, an 8pc increase at the nutrition and ingredients group. "We are 
guiding 8pc to 10pc growth in adjusted earnings per share for the full year 2014, on a constant currency basis," said 
Roundup- Ryanair targets business flyers News Roundup
Siobhan Talbot, group managing director at Glanbia. "Our ambition is to continue to deliver a similar annual organic 
growth rate through to 2018, while seeking to sustain a return on capital employed in excess of 12pc." The Irish 
Independent XXXX Twelve senior staff on the management team at Rehab Group earn more than E100,000 a year, 
the embattled charity and commercial organisation has disclosed. Some executives also earned bonuses of up to 
E14,200 as recently as two years ago and all of them have "a contractual entitlement to performance-related pay" 
while others have company cars. The head of the Dail's spending watchdog, Public Accounts Committee (PAC) 
chairman John McGuinness, described the sums as "excessive for the charity sector". The disclosures were made 
after the group, which received E83m in state funding last year, came under massive political pressure to reveal the 
pay of senior staff following controversy over the E240,000 salary of chief executive Angela Kerins. The Irish 
Independent XXXX A senior official at the Financial Regulator says he may have come up with the idea of putting 
together a group of wealthy individuals to buy Sean Quinn's stake in Anglo Irish Bank. And regulators knew that the 
deal to buy the Sean Quinn stake could involve some financing from the bank. That's all according to evidence from 
Con Horan who was second-in-command at the Financial Regulator at the time of the 2008 deal. Mr Horan was 
giving evidence yesterday at Dublin Circuit Criminal Court in the trial of three former Anglo Irish Bank directors 
accused of allowing the bank to illegally provide loans used to fund the acquisition of the shares in the bank. The 
three accused men are Sean FitzPatrick (65), from Greystones, Co Wicklow; William McAteer (63), of Rathgar in 
Dublin; and Patrick Whelan (51), of Malahide, Co Dublin. They are charged with 16 counts each of providing 
unlawful financial assistance to 16 individuals in July 2008 to buy shares in Anglo Irish Bank. The 16 are members 
of the Quinn family plus the so-called 'Maple 10'; a group of 10 former large-scale customers of Anglo Irish Bank. 
The three men have pleaded not guilty to all of the charges. The Irish Independent
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 506 words
Body
Brent crude contract underpinning Slowing output from the North Sea may require IntercontinentalExchange to add 
oil grades from beyond the offshore European fields to underpin its flagship Brent crude contract. The comments 
from David Peniket, president of the Londonbased ICE Futures Europe exchange, echo growing industry concern 
that the global crude oil benchmark is backed by a declining source of supply. Brent trading generated $228m in 
revenue for ICE last year. While Brent futures volumes are climbing, the physical oil production from the North Sea 
that forms the basis of the market has fallen sharply in recent years. Critics contend Brent is "broken" as a marker 
for global oil prices.
Disney in Maker Studios deal Walt Disney is nearing a deal to acquire Maker Studios in a deal worth $500m which 
could rise to as much as $900m if certain financial conditions are met, according to people familiar with the 
www.situation.UK German bond yield gap widens Differences in government borrowing costs between the UK and 
Germany have reached levels not seen since the late 1990s, highlighting market judgement on diverging growth 
and inflation prospects for the two countries. The difference, or "spread," between yields on 10-year UK gilts over 
equivalent German Bunds this week reached its highest since 1998.
Million more people to pay 40p tax More than a million extra middle-income workers will have been dragged into the 
40p tax bracket by next year because of George Osborne's plans to boost income for the low-paid. A further rise 
from £10,000 to £10,500, due to be announced in next week's Budget, risks a backlash from Tory MPs.
Chinese group heads for Docklands A Chinese investor group that splashed out £600m on a large site in South 
London in January has spent nearly the same amount on property in the Docklands area. Greenland, owned by the 
Chinese state, will confirm today that it has purchased the Hertsmere site in Canary Wharf.
Apple pressuring music labels to release songs solely via iTunes Executives at the iPhone maker are reportedly 
pushing for an "exclusive window", so that iTunes would be allowed to offer new releases before its rivals. The 
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
model echoes the way that television companies like BSKYB pay to be able to show major releases ahead of the 
competition.
Ryanair to sell through travel agents Ryanair will start to sell its flights through travel agents next month, for the first 
time in a decade, as it looks to double the number of business passengers using the airline.
AIS Capital sues gold-fix banks A US investment management firm is suing the five banks that set the London 
benchmark gold price, alleging that they conspired to manipulate the price of gold for their own gain.
Poland proposes tax breaks for shale Poland''s government yesterday offered six-year tax breaks to the shale gas 
industry to speed up exploration work and reduce the country''s reliance on Russian gas amid rising tensions in 
Ukraine. It has also been building pipelines connecting it with European Union neighbours.
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
Court injunction to stop airport strike Airport Strike
Court injunction to stop airport strike; Airport Strike
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 191 words
Highlight: The High Court has today granted injunctions preventing a four-hour work stoppage by Siptu members 
at the country's main airports from taking place on Friday.
Body
The High Court has today granted injunctions preventing a four-hour work stoppage by Siptu members at the 
country's main airports from taking place on Friday.
This afternoon in his judgement, in proceedings brought by the Dublin Airport Authority and Ryanair, Mr Justice 
Paul Gilligan granted injunction preventing the strike from going ahead.
The proposed industrial action, involving four-hour stoppages at Dublin, Cork and Shannon between 5am and 9am 
on Friday March14th, arises from the long-running dispute over cuts in pension benefits at Aer Lingus and the DAA.
In proceedings against Siptu, Ryanair and the DAA had asked the High Court to grant injunctions, pending the 
outcome of the full hearing of the dispute, preventing the proposed industrial action going ahead. They had argued 
that the strike "is illegal" and is not "a valid trade dispute," as defined by the 1990 Industrial Relations Act. Both 
claimed the stoppage will "cause havoc" and "maximum disruption" to thousands of passengers. The action will 
effectively close down the airport on one of the busiest weekends of the year, costing "millions of euro," it was 
further claimed.
Load-Date: March 13, 2014
End of Document
Court injunction to stop airport strike Airport Strike
Court injunction to stop airport strike; Airport Strike
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 191 words
Highlight: The High Court has today granted injunctions preventing a four-hour work stoppage by Siptu members 
at the country's main airports from taking place on Friday.
Body
The High Court has today granted injunctions preventing a four-hour work stoppage by Siptu members at the 
country's main airports from taking place on Friday.
This afternoon in his judgement, in proceedings brought by the Dublin Airport Authority and Ryanair, Mr Justice 
Paul Gilligan granted injunction preventing the strike from going ahead.
The proposed industrial action, involving four-hour stoppages at Dublin, Cork and Shannon between 5am and 9am 
on Friday March14th, arises from the long-running dispute over cuts in pension benefits at Aer Lingus and the DAA.
In proceedings against Siptu, Ryanair and the DAA had asked the High Court to grant injunctions, pending the 
outcome of the full hearing of the dispute, preventing the proposed industrial action going ahead. They had argued 
that the strike "is illegal" and is not "a valid trade dispute," as defined by the 1990 Industrial Relations Act. Both 
claimed the stoppage will "cause havoc" and "maximum disruption" to thousands of passengers. The action will 
effectively close down the airport on one of the busiest weekends of the year, costing "millions of euro," it was 
further claimed.
Load-Date: March 14, 2014
End of Document
Court injunction to stop airport strike Airport Strike
Court injunction to stop airport strike; Airport Strike
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 191 words
Highlight: The High Court has today granted injunctions preventing a four-hour work stoppage by Siptu members 
at the country's main airports from taking place on Friday.
Body
The High Court has today granted injunctions preventing a four-hour work stoppage by Siptu members at the 
country's main airports from taking place on Friday.
This afternoon in his judgement, in proceedings brought by the Dublin Airport Authority and Ryanair, Mr Justice 
Paul Gilligan granted injunction preventing the strike from going ahead.
The proposed industrial action, involving four-hour stoppages at Dublin, Cork and Shannon between 5am and 9am 
on Friday March14th, arises from the long-running dispute over cuts in pension benefits at Aer Lingus and the DAA.
In proceedings against Siptu, Ryanair and the DAA had asked the High Court to grant injunctions, pending the 
outcome of the full hearing of the dispute, preventing the proposed industrial action going ahead. They had argued 
that the strike "is illegal" and is not "a valid trade dispute," as defined by the 1990 Industrial Relations Act. Both 
claimed the stoppage will "cause havoc" and "maximum disruption" to thousands of passengers. The action will 
effectively close down the airport on one of the busiest weekends of the year, costing "millions of euro," it was 
further claimed.
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
Court injunction to stop airport strike Airport Strike
Court injunction to stop airport strike; Airport Strike
Business World (Digest)
March 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 191 words
Highlight: The High Court has today granted injunctions preventing a four-hour work stoppage by Siptu members 
at the country's main airports from taking place on Friday.
Body
The High Court has today granted injunctions preventing a four-hour work stoppage by Siptu members at the 
country's main airports from taking place on Friday.
This afternoon in his judgement, in proceedings brought by the Dublin Airport Authority and Ryanair, Mr Justice 
Paul Gilligan granted injunction preventing the strike from going ahead.
The proposed industrial action, involving four-hour stoppages at Dublin, Cork and Shannon between 5am and 9am 
on Friday March14th, arises from the long-running dispute over cuts in pension benefits at Aer Lingus and the DAA.
In proceedings against Siptu, Ryanair and the DAA had asked the High Court to grant injunctions, pending the 
outcome of the full hearing of the dispute, preventing the proposed industrial action going ahead. They had argued 
that the strike "is illegal" and is not "a valid trade dispute," as defined by the 1990 Industrial Relations Act. Both 
claimed the stoppage will "cause havoc" and "maximum disruption" to thousands of passengers. The action will 
effectively close down the airport on one of the busiest weekends of the year, costing "millions of euro," it was 
further claimed.
Load-Date: March 17, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair , Travelport Announce New Partnership Deal - Quick Facts
Ryanair, Travelport Announce New Partnership Deal - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
March 11, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 232 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced a new partnership with 
Travelport, a distribution services and e-commerce provider, allowing Travelport-connected agents worldwide 
access to Ryanair's low fares and comprehensive route network.
The combination of Ryanair's low fares and extensive route network at primary and secondary airports would 
enable Ryanair and Travelport to offer a significant business travel platform, and allow Europe's largest businesses 
to save both time and money by flying Ryanair, according to the company.
Commenting on the partnership, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "This partnership with 
Travelport is a significant development for Ryanair and for businesses across Europe and beyond as we continue to 
evolve our business offering. As Europe's largest airline, we'll carry over 81.5m customers this year on the largest 
route network, connecting 186 airports in 30 countries."
He continued, "More than 22% of these customers already choose Ryanair for business travel and we expect that 
percentage to grow as this partnership allows corporate travel departments and businesses even greater access to 
Ryanair's low fares and routes, ensuring they save millions of euro in travel expenses every year."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 11, 2014
End of Document
Europe's regional airports in trouble Airport Trouble
Europe's regional airports in trouble; Airport Trouble
Business World (Digest)
March 10, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 472 words
Highlight: Dozens of small European airports, which blossomed with the advent of no-frills flying, face cutbacks or 
even closure as traditional airlines become more competitive and regulators clamp down on state aid.
Body
Dozens of small European airports, which blossomed with the advent of no-frills flying, face cutbacks or even 
closure as traditional airlines become more competitive and regulators clamp down on state aid.
After years of suffering at the hands of budget airlines such as Ryanair and easyJet, carriers including Lufthansa, 
British Airways and Air France have cut costs and consolidated to close the price gap on short-haul European 
routes.
In response, low-cost carriers are offering more flights to airport hubs used by their rejuvenated rivals, which are 
more convenient for city centres and transport links. Ryanair, for example, has stepped up services at Rome's 
Fiumicino.
"At first, people were prepared to travel (to smaller, often remote airports) because fares were so much cheaper, 
but now the cost of flying from large airports has come down," said Tanja Wielgoss, a partner at consultants AT 
Kearney. "It's always been hard for smaller airports, but now it's even harder." Many small European airports are 
owned or supported by local governments, which hoped their growth would attract businesses, tourists and jobs to 
their regions. But in a bid to mend public finances and promote competition, the European Union is clamping down 
on state aid - a move likely to compound the problems of smaller airports that have failed to attract a critical mass of 
business. The European Commission ruled last month that EU airports serving more than 5 million passengers a 
year will be banned from receiving state aid in future unless there is a clear market failure, while aid for airports with 
fewer than 3 million travellers will have to be phased out over a 10-year period. Small airports will need to present a 
plan to the EU that shows how they intend to work towards covering operating costs to qualify for aid under the new 
guidelines. That could pose a challenge for airports such as Germany's Kassel-Calden, which opened in April last 
year but had no scheduled flights this winter, and the multitude of "ghost" airports lying empty in Spain after the 
construction boom there came to a crashing halt during the global financial crisis. "The EU ruling will have an 
Europe's regional airports in trouble Airport Trouble
impact. It may well lead to the loss of some operations and it is possible we could see some airports closing down 
entirely," said Simon McNamara, director general of the European Regions Airline Association (ERA). As well as a 
blow for local governments, the demise of some small airports could hurt tourism and reduce choice for travellers in 
countries such as Germany. "If you take out Frankfurt and Duesseldorf, then around 60 percent of holiday traffic in 
Germany goes via smaller airports," said GfK analyst Doerte Nordbeck. "There is a trend to move flights to larger 
airports but that's driven by the airlines rather than by what customers want." (Reutters)
Load-Date: March 11, 2014
End of Document
Europe's regional airports in trouble Airport Trouble
Europe's regional airports in trouble; Airport Trouble
Business World (Digest)
March 10, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 472 words
Highlight: Dozens of small European airports, which blossomed with the advent of no-frills flying, face cutbacks or 
even closure as traditional airlines become more competitive and regulators clamp down on state aid.
Body
Dozens of small European airports, which blossomed with the advent of no-frills flying, face cutbacks or even 
closure as traditional airlines become more competitive and regulators clamp down on state aid.
After years of suffering at the hands of budget airlines such as Ryanair and easyJet, carriers including Lufthansa, 
British Airways and Air France have cut costs and consolidated to close the price gap on short-haul European 
routes.
In response, low-cost carriers are offering more flights to airport hubs used by their rejuvenated rivals, which are 
more convenient for city centres and transport links. Ryanair, for example, has stepped up services at Rome's 
Fiumicino.
"At first, people were prepared to travel (to smaller, often remote airports) because fares were so much cheaper, 
but now the cost of flying from large airports has come down," said Tanja Wielgoss, a partner at consultants AT 
Kearney. "It's always been hard for smaller airports, but now it's even harder." Many small European airports are 
owned or supported by local governments, which hoped their growth would attract businesses, tourists and jobs to 
their regions. But in a bid to mend public finances and promote competition, the European Union is clamping down 
on state aid - a move likely to compound the problems of smaller airports that have failed to attract a critical mass of 
business. The European Commission ruled last month that EU airports serving more than 5 million passengers a 
year will be banned from receiving state aid in future unless there is a clear market failure, while aid for airports with 
fewer than 3 million travellers will have to be phased out over a 10-year period. Small airports will need to present a 
plan to the EU that shows how they intend to work towards covering operating costs to qualify for aid under the new 
guidelines. That could pose a challenge for airports such as Germany's Kassel-Calden, which opened in April last 
year but had no scheduled flights this winter, and the multitude of "ghost" airports lying empty in Spain after the 
construction boom there came to a crashing halt during the global financial crisis. "The EU ruling will have an 
Europe's regional airports in trouble Airport Trouble
impact. It may well lead to the loss of some operations and it is possible we could see some airports closing down 
entirely," said Simon McNamara, director general of the European Regions Airline Association (ERA). As well as a 
blow for local governments, the demise of some small airports could hurt tourism and reduce choice for travellers in 
countries such as Germany. "If you take out Frankfurt and Duesseldorf, then around 60 percent of holiday traffic in 
Germany goes via smaller airports," said GfK analyst Doerte Nordbeck. "There is a trend to move flights to larger 
airports but that's driven by the airlines rather than by what customers want." (Reutters)
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
Europe's regional airports in trouble Airport Trouble
Europe's regional airports in trouble; Airport Trouble
Business World (Digest)
March 10, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 472 words
Highlight: Dozens of small European airports, which blossomed with the advent of no-frills flying, face cutbacks or 
even closure as traditional airlines become more competitive and regulators clamp down on state aid.
Body
Dozens of small European airports, which blossomed with the advent of no-frills flying, face cutbacks or even 
closure as traditional airlines become more competitive and regulators clamp down on state aid.
After years of suffering at the hands of budget airlines such as Ryanair and easyJet, carriers including Lufthansa, 
British Airways and Air France have cut costs and consolidated to close the price gap on short-haul European 
routes.
In response, low-cost carriers are offering more flights to airport hubs used by their rejuvenated rivals, which are 
more convenient for city centres and transport links. Ryanair, for example, has stepped up services at Rome's 
Fiumicino.
"At first, people were prepared to travel (to smaller, often remote airports) because fares were so much cheaper, 
but now the cost of flying from large airports has come down," said Tanja Wielgoss, a partner at consultants AT 
Kearney. "It's always been hard for smaller airports, but now it's even harder." Many small European airports are 
owned or supported by local governments, which hoped their growth would attract businesses, tourists and jobs to 
their regions. But in a bid to mend public finances and promote competition, the European Union is clamping down 
on state aid - a move likely to compound the problems of smaller airports that have failed to attract a critical mass of 
business. The European Commission ruled last month that EU airports serving more than 5 million passengers a 
year will be banned from receiving state aid in future unless there is a clear market failure, while aid for airports with 
fewer than 3 million travellers will have to be phased out over a 10-year period. Small airports will need to present a 
plan to the EU that shows how they intend to work towards covering operating costs to qualify for aid under the new 
guidelines. That could pose a challenge for airports such as Germany's Kassel-Calden, which opened in April last 
year but had no scheduled flights this winter, and the multitude of "ghost" airports lying empty in Spain after the 
construction boom there came to a crashing halt during the global financial crisis. "The EU ruling will have an 
Europe's regional airports in trouble Airport Trouble
impact. It may well lead to the loss of some operations and it is possible we could see some airports closing down 
entirely," said Simon McNamara, director general of the European Regions Airline Association (ERA). As well as a 
blow for local governments, the demise of some small airports could hurt tourism and reduce choice for travellers in 
countries such as Germany. "If you take out Frankfurt and Duesseldorf, then around 60 percent of holiday traffic in 
Germany goes via smaller airports," said GfK analyst Doerte Nordbeck. "There is a trend to move flights to larger 
airports but that's driven by the airlines rather than by what customers want." (Reutters)
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
Siptu held secret meetings with head of Aer Lingus
Siptu held secret meetings with head of Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
March 9, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 329 words
Body
Siptu president Jack O'Connor has said he held secret talks with Aer Lingus boss Christoph Mueller over the 
pensions row at the company, on five different occasions. The Sunday Business Post has learned that O'Connor 
revealed -- at an emergency meeting of Siptu shop stewards at an airport hotel last Tuesday -- that he and Ictu 
(Irish Congress of Trade Unions) president David Begg, who is also a board member of the airline, along with 
Impact general secretary Shay Cody had met with Mueller and other senior Aer Lingus executives.
Siptu has scheduled a four hour work stoppage at Dublin, Cork and Shannon airports next Friday, in a row over 
funding for a Euro 780 million pension scheme deficit.
O'Connor confirmed the meetings to this newspaper and said that he had made ''a statement about them to shop 
stewards last week.
O'Connor's meetings with Mueller date back to September 2012, and coincided with the period that the officials 
were locked in negotiations with the airline at the Labour Court and Labour Relations Commission. Local Siptu 
representatives have reacted angrily to the news, but refused to comment about it publically.
''I met with Christoph Mueller on five occasions, during which he briefed me on the company's attitude to the 
pension issue, and I appraised the shop stewards of that last Tuesday, O'Connor said. Asked if he presented the 
union's side during these meetings, he said ''that was my intention.
''I think Christoph Mueller simply regarded it as his briefing me on Aer Lingus's attitude to the issue. He didn't seem 
to be amenable to any negotiations around it. I tried to [put Siptu's case forward]. He viewed the negotiations as 
happening elsewhere.
It is understood that the Siptu branch at Dublin Airport now believes that the four-hour strike action planned for next 
Friday, will be scuppered by new legal action.
Siptu held secret meetings with head of Aer Lingus
Dublin Airport Authority and Ryanair are seeking to injunct this, and the matter will be mentioned in the High Court 
tomorrow.
Load-Date: March 9, 2014
End of Document
Wine: A rustic renaissance
Wine: A rustic renaissance
Sunday Business Post
March 9, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIVING
Length: 1641 words
Body
The walled city of Carcassonne casts a tall shadow over much of Languedoc history and commerce. Physically it 
stands at the centre of the giant crescent-shaped wine region we know as Languedoc-Roussillon that runs from 
almost Marseilles westwards around to the border with Spain.
Carcassonne is surrounded by the tenderloin appellations of Minervois, Corbi  ¨res, Fitou, Cabard  ¨s and, to the 
south, Limoux. Above all, however, Carcassonne is symbolic of the Languedoc, its resistance to orthodoxy, its 
allegiance to local over national and a sense of itself as deeply ancient.
Yet, for all that, Carcassonne is also a symbol of constant change, of secret reconstruction or rebuilding and 
redefining oneself. This too is embodied in the wines and, indeed, the people and culture of the Occitan, as the 
locals prefer to call it.
What is most startling for Irish wine lovers is how the image and importance of the Languedoc and its wines has 
see-sawed, especially in Ireland. Part of this has to do with the Celtic Tiger and that may well be affecting people's 
perceptions of Languedoc wines in some palpable way.
In 2006, it seemed as if every other Ryanair flight was to Carcassonne and every other property supplement had a 
piece about the launch of newly-renovated village houses or apartments in the Languedoc. Many Irish people 
bought property in what remains the closest stretch of the Med to us.
Today, with two flights a week by Ryanair and a service which cranks up only between May and early September 
allowing Irish people to access the Languedoc, it has once again become a slightly remote place to reach or 
explore.
**The wines of the reconstructed Languedoc**
Wine: A rustic renaissance
In the beginning, the word most widely used about wines from the Languedoc was ''rustic. This was not meant in 
any modern sense to mean authentic and ancient, it was used to mean rough, headache-inducing, but at least 
basically sterile.
In several of the older books on French wine that I own, including by early Irish writers such as Somerville and Ross 
(of The Irish RM fame), as well as wine-obsessed visitors to France such as US president Thomas Jefferson, 
references to any wines at all emerging from the entire Languedoc region are scant.
Now it is beyond doubt that wine has been grown in the Languedoc since the ancient Greeks founded a colony 
there and exported wine home, as did the Romans. However, the region was mountainous and remote, ideal for 
heretics and bandits and secret societies to hide out in, but almost impossible in an era before cars and trains to 
build an export business for low-priced bulky goods such as wine.
So the claims to a Languedoc wine heritage have to be understood in a very specific context. What did happen was 
the Canal du Midi, which allowed Bordeaux winemakers access to warmer, potentially riper fruit that they might 
happily add to their occasionally variable wines. Once in the Garonne estuary, Languedoc wines could be conveyed 
to Paris and beyond if anyone wanted them on their own.
There is very little evidence that anyone did until the advent of railways made cheap, rustic Languedoc wines widely 
available. But the train network and mass wine market was not interested in the authentic appellations of the 
mountains -- it wanted plentiful supplies of cheap, ripe wine. So plantings in the plains and coasts began and it is 
this wine that made the Languedoc, under its new name, Vin de Days D'Oc and the one size fits all AC Coteaux du 
Languedoc.
This was rather like those turrets on Carcassonne or the shiny white wall around Newgrange -- a great new iconic 
construct, but based on a lack of historical evidence.
The genuine ancient small areas of production often associated with monastic settlements were swept aside in 
favour of quasi-industrial production land grab. Languedoc smallholders were offered the opportunity to form co-
operatives, centralise the expense of winemaking and transportation and be guaranteed a wage. They sensibly 
jumped at the chance. It is in this cheap and cheerful form that most wine lovers first encounter Vin de Pays D'OC.
**From cheerful to cheeky triumph**
During the 1980s, as New World wines became the dominant force, someone awoke from a daze in the Languedoc 
and appeared to really look around at the landscape for the first time in 300 years. What they saw was not France, 
it was a mixture of Australia and California.
When you push on south from Avignon and leave the Rhone valley behind you, you enter the autoroute 
Languedocienne and almost immediately the scent of lavender and warm heathers hits you. Passing the Roman 
southern capital of Nimes, you suddenly begin to notice that you are barely in France anymore. The hills turn dark 
green with primordial undergrowth, the mountains become smooth red stone escarpments and the slopes are 
covered in red stone boulders. The vegetation quickly thins out and you are left in a landscape that is mysterious 
and familiar; it feels like the Australian outback or cowboy country in the US.
You are in the Langeudoc, Europe's New World, where today vast oceans of vines are planted. All of the big New 
World players are here -- you are as likely to see a member of the Gallo family on a flying visit as you are to glimpse 
French players like the Rothschilds or the Cazes family of Lynch-Bages, who have also invested heavily here.
The most unexpected part of all this influx of attention was that the money that flowed into Languedoc growers' 
hands did not create idleness. The sons and daughters of the co-operative growers who were supplying these new 
arrivals began to be interested in their heritage, and little by little they demanded and achieved a fragmentation of 
the familiar Vin de Pays D'Oc into dozens of new small appellations controlees. Each one, it seemed, had a small 
cult following and its own wine critic championing it. Prices began to leap for these wines, almost as fast as the 
weights of the bottles in which they were offered were stored.
Wine: A rustic renaissance
Then the world economic crisis hit, and it suddenly became harder to get EUR 50 for a new Languedoc icon 
created by siphoning off all the best wine from the family's output, leaving the rest of the wines just a little flat. The 
Tete de Cuvee cult in the Languedoc mirrored developments in the Rhone and California, but without the money 
and fame to keep the gimmick going. Combined with an ever more dizzying redrawing of the appellation rules to 
allow authenticity and freedom but which really just caused infinite confusion, the Languedoc's star began to fade, 
especially in Ireland.
But while we were cancelling our flights and looking towards Dingle and not Montpellier for our summer adventure, 
the Languedoc has been regrouping. The Vin de Languedoc movement has pushed ahead with big regional 
appellations which allow total flexibility in what grapes are planted and blended, what techniques are used, and how 
the wines are presented and packaged. This allows for the New World style winemaking and winery model to be 
pursued, both on a small and large scale.
The second move has been to continue to break up the landscape underneath the regional appellations, creating a 
myriad of smaller and smaller AC units with stronger, more coherent characteristics. Both of these moves have 
been combined with the introduction of a Bordeaux-style quality classification.
This last part is being done by the industry itself, and most especially and authoritatively by the most august wine 
journal in France, La Revue de Vin du France, which holds a unique position in world wine literature in that it is 
viewed more as an academic textbook and attached society rather than a commercial entity.
La Revue, being French, had no hesitation in structuring in classes from one to three. It ordained three First 
Classed Growths -- Domaine Gauby, Domaine de la Grange des Peres and Mas Jullien -- ten second classed 
growths and 27 in the bottom class.
The new post-crash Languedoc is a chastened place, but maybe it is now time for us to begin to have a look at it 
again. The prices have fallen dramatically, and the true Languedoc -- fragmented, odd, idiosyncratic -- has begun to 
emerge in a delightfully complicated, authentic manner. It's worthy of an open-minded wine lover's second chance.
**The Languedoc: once more with feeling**
Domaine L'Ostal Cazes, Eclipse Rouge, AOC Minervois -- La Liviniere 2011, EUR 14.99 down from EUR 16.99 in 
O'Briens (90)
Domaine L'Ostal Cazes, Eclipse Blanc, AOC Minervois -- La Liviniere 2011, EUR 16.99 from O'Briens (90)
Domaine L'Ostal Cazes, Estibals, AOC Minervois 201, EUR 16.99 (91)
Laurent Miquel, Albarino, Lagrasse, Vin de France 2012, EUR 15 from Dunnes (90)
Laurent Miquel, Cuvee Bardou, AC St Chinian 2008, EUR 15 from Dunnes (90)
Cave de Castelmaure, Castelmaure Rouge 2012, EUR 11.95 down from EUR 13.95 in Terroirs (90)
Domaine du Clos des Fees, Les Sorcieres, AC Cotes de Roussillon 2010, EUR 19.50 down from EUR 28.50 from 
Terroirs (91)
Chateau Caraguilhes, Red Organic, AC Corbieres 2011, EUR 15.49 in O'Briens (90)
Domaine Aonghusa Noah, Vin de Pays L'Aude 2010, EUR 20.38 from Karwig Wines (91)
Mas Daumas Gassac, Rouge, Vin de Pays de l'Herault 2004, EUR 102.96 from Karwig Wines (92)
Domaine Luc Lapeyre L'Amourier, AC Minervois 2011, EUR 15.30 from Wines Direct (90)
Mas Jullien, AC Terrasses du Larzac 2010, EUR 41.20 from Wines Direct (94)
Wine: A rustic renaissance
*E-mail the wine column at wine@sbpost.ie and follow TomAs Clancy on Twitter: @tomasclancy*
....
**Wine ratings**
This is the international marking system for wine ratings. The 100-point scale works on a percentile, not a 
percentage scale, which is based on the United States educational grading system
**95-100:**exceptional, of world-class quality
**90-94:**very good quality
**88-89:**average but lacks greatness
**85-87:**average to modest
**80-84:**below average
**70-79:**poor
**below 70:**unacceptable quality
Load-Date: March 9, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading ISEQ Falls
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 379 words
Highlight: The ISEQ tumbled in afternoon trading today to close nearly 2pc lower as investors tried to shield 
themselves from any confrontation between Russia and Ukraine on the weekend.
Body
The ISEQ tumbled in afternoon trading today to close nearly 2pc lower as investors tried to shield themselves from 
any confrontation between Russia and Ukraine on the weekend.
By the close of play, the ISEQ was down 92.28 points to 5,051.56.
Above-forecast jobs data from the United States briefly helped shares pare losses. But they turned sharply lower 
again on reports that a U.S. warship was entering the Black Sea. The U.S. military said the planned exercise was 
routine. Even so, the reaction showed how volatile the market could be when news broke about Crimea. "People 
are a little bit nervous to go into the weekend with fully loaded long positions, given the ongoing Ukraine crisis," said 
Zeg Choudhry, the head of trading at Northland Capital Partners.
At home, shares in CRH fell 58c to E20.50. Italcementi has reported that FY 2013 recurring EBITDA fell 1.9pc year-
on-year (yoy) to E631m, slightly ahead of our estimate of E627m. FY sales were down 5.4pc yoy at E4.235bn as 
cement volumes across the group declined by 6pc. The drop in volumes was not surprisingly driven by declines in 
Italy (-19.9pc) and Egypt (-17.6pc). More positive were increases in demand in Thailand (+5.5pc), India (+1.6pc) 
and North America (+1.5pc). Q4 EBITDA rose strongly, up 17.4pc yoy, driven by restructuring (total E140m) and 
improved sales prices. The FAO food price index, based on international prices of a basket of five key food 
commodities, recorded its biggest month-on-month rise since mid-2012 in February. The increase over January 
was 2.6pc. Other than meat, which was flat, the other four commodities included in the index rose. Month-on-month 
increases of 2.9pc, 3.6pc, 4.9pc and 6.2pc were recorded for dairy, cereals, vegetable oils and sugar respectively. 
Kerry Group's shares fell 28c to E56.72. Ryanair shares dipped 5c to E7.4 after Britain's competition watchdog 
dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a previous ruling that it has to sell most of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, it 
said today. The Competition Commission upheld the previous decision that Ryanair's 30 percent stake in Aer 
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading ISEQ Falls
Lingus could substantially reduce competition on some routes. "Ryanair's appeal dismissed," a commission 
spokesman said in a statement. Aer Lingus stocks rose 1c to E1.69.
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading ISEQ Falls
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 379 words
Highlight: The ISEQ tumbled in afternoon trading today to close nearly 2pc lower as investors tried to shield 
themselves from any confrontation between Russia and Ukraine on the weekend.
Body
The ISEQ tumbled in afternoon trading today to close nearly 2pc lower as investors tried to shield themselves from 
any confrontation between Russia and Ukraine on the weekend.
By the close of play, the ISEQ was down 92.28 points to 5,051.56.
Above-forecast jobs data from the United States briefly helped shares pare losses. But they turned sharply lower 
again on reports that a U.S. warship was entering the Black Sea. The U.S. military said the planned exercise was 
routine. Even so, the reaction showed how volatile the market could be when news broke about Crimea. "People 
are a little bit nervous to go into the weekend with fully loaded long positions, given the ongoing Ukraine crisis," said 
Zeg Choudhry, the head of trading at Northland Capital Partners.
At home, shares in CRH fell 58c to E20.50. Italcementi has reported that FY 2013 recurring EBITDA fell 1.9pc year-
on-year (yoy) to E631m, slightly ahead of our estimate of E627m. FY sales were down 5.4pc yoy at E4.235bn as 
cement volumes across the group declined by 6pc. The drop in volumes was not surprisingly driven by declines in 
Italy (-19.9pc) and Egypt (-17.6pc). More positive were increases in demand in Thailand (+5.5pc), India (+1.6pc) 
and North America (+1.5pc). Q4 EBITDA rose strongly, up 17.4pc yoy, driven by restructuring (total E140m) and 
improved sales prices. The FAO food price index, based on international prices of a basket of five key food 
commodities, recorded its biggest month-on-month rise since mid-2012 in February. The increase over January 
was 2.6pc. Other than meat, which was flat, the other four commodities included in the index rose. Month-on-month 
increases of 2.9pc, 3.6pc, 4.9pc and 6.2pc were recorded for dairy, cereals, vegetable oils and sugar respectively. 
Kerry Group's shares fell 28c to E56.72. Ryanair shares dipped 5c to E7.4 after Britain's competition watchdog 
dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a previous ruling that it has to sell most of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, it 
said today. The Competition Commission upheld the previous decision that Ryanair's 30 percent stake in Aer 
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading ISEQ Falls
Lingus could substantially reduce competition on some routes. "Ryanair's appeal dismissed," a commission 
spokesman said in a statement. Aer Lingus stocks rose 1c to E1.69.
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading ISEQ Falls
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 379 words
Highlight: The ISEQ tumbled in afternoon trading today to close nearly 2pc lower as investors tried to shield 
themselves from any confrontation between Russia and Ukraine on the weekend.
Body
The ISEQ tumbled in afternoon trading today to close nearly 2pc lower as investors tried to shield themselves from 
any confrontation between Russia and Ukraine on the weekend.
By the close of play, the ISEQ was down 92.28 points to 5,051.56.
Above-forecast jobs data from the United States briefly helped shares pare losses. But they turned sharply lower 
again on reports that a U.S. warship was entering the Black Sea. The U.S. military said the planned exercise was 
routine. Even so, the reaction showed how volatile the market could be when news broke about Crimea. "People 
are a little bit nervous to go into the weekend with fully loaded long positions, given the ongoing Ukraine crisis," said 
Zeg Choudhry, the head of trading at Northland Capital Partners.
At home, shares in CRH fell 58c to E20.50. Italcementi has reported that FY 2013 recurring EBITDA fell 1.9pc year-
on-year (yoy) to E631m, slightly ahead of our estimate of E627m. FY sales were down 5.4pc yoy at E4.235bn as 
cement volumes across the group declined by 6pc. The drop in volumes was not surprisingly driven by declines in 
Italy (-19.9pc) and Egypt (-17.6pc). More positive were increases in demand in Thailand (+5.5pc), India (+1.6pc) 
and North America (+1.5pc). Q4 EBITDA rose strongly, up 17.4pc yoy, driven by restructuring (total E140m) and 
improved sales prices. The FAO food price index, based on international prices of a basket of five key food 
commodities, recorded its biggest month-on-month rise since mid-2012 in February. The increase over January 
was 2.6pc. Other than meat, which was flat, the other four commodities included in the index rose. Month-on-month 
increases of 2.9pc, 3.6pc, 4.9pc and 6.2pc were recorded for dairy, cereals, vegetable oils and sugar respectively. 
Kerry Group's shares fell 28c to E56.72. Ryanair shares dipped 5c to E7.4 after Britain's competition watchdog 
dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a previous ruling that it has to sell most of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, it 
said today. The Competition Commission upheld the previous decision that Ryanair's 30 percent stake in Aer 
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading ISEQ Falls
Lingus could substantially reduce competition on some routes. "Ryanair's appeal dismissed," a commission 
spokesman said in a statement. Aer Lingus stocks rose 1c to E1.69.
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading ISEQ Falls
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading; ISEQ Falls
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 379 words
Highlight: The ISEQ tumbled in afternoon trading today to close nearly 2pc lower as investors tried to shield 
themselves from any confrontation between Russia and Ukraine on the weekend.
Body
The ISEQ tumbled in afternoon trading today to close nearly 2pc lower as investors tried to shield themselves from 
any confrontation between Russia and Ukraine on the weekend.
By the close of play, the ISEQ was down 92.28 points to 5,051.56.
Above-forecast jobs data from the United States briefly helped shares pare losses. But they turned sharply lower 
again on reports that a U.S. warship was entering the Black Sea. The U.S. military said the planned exercise was 
routine. Even so, the reaction showed how volatile the market could be when news broke about Crimea. "People 
are a little bit nervous to go into the weekend with fully loaded long positions, given the ongoing Ukraine crisis," said 
Zeg Choudhry, the head of trading at Northland Capital Partners.
At home, shares in CRH fell 58c to E20.50. Italcementi has reported that FY 2013 recurring EBITDA fell 1.9pc year-
on-year (yoy) to E631m, slightly ahead of our estimate of E627m. FY sales were down 5.4pc yoy at E4.235bn as 
cement volumes across the group declined by 6pc. The drop in volumes was not surprisingly driven by declines in 
Italy (-19.9pc) and Egypt (-17.6pc). More positive were increases in demand in Thailand (+5.5pc), India (+1.6pc) 
and North America (+1.5pc). Q4 EBITDA rose strongly, up 17.4pc yoy, driven by restructuring (total E140m) and 
improved sales prices. The FAO food price index, based on international prices of a basket of five key food 
commodities, recorded its biggest month-on-month rise since mid-2012 in February. The increase over January 
was 2.6pc. Other than meat, which was flat, the other four commodities included in the index rose. Month-on-month 
increases of 2.9pc, 3.6pc, 4.9pc and 6.2pc were recorded for dairy, cereals, vegetable oils and sugar respectively. 
Kerry Group's shares fell 28c to E56.72. Ryanair shares dipped 5c to E7.4 after Britain's competition watchdog 
dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a previous ruling that it has to sell most of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, it 
said today. The Competition Commission upheld the previous decision that Ryanair's 30 percent stake in Aer 
ISEQ tumbles in afternoon trading ISEQ Falls
Lingus could substantially reduce competition on some routes. "Ryanair's appeal dismissed," a commission 
spokesman said in a statement. Aer Lingus stocks rose 1c to E1.69.
Load-Date: March 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair also seek injunction over strike Airport Strike
Ryanair also seek injunction over strike; Airport Strike
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Highlight: Ryanair was granted leave to seek a High Court injunction against SIPTU's plan to shut down Dublin, 
Cork and Shannon Airports for four hours next Friday in a row over pensions.
Body
Ryanair was granted leave to seek a High Court injunction against SIPTU's plan to shut down Dublin, Cork and 
Shannon Airports for four hours next Friday in a row over pensions.
"Ryanair will not allow over 13,000 of its customers to be blackmailed by greedy SIPTU unions, particularly in the 
case of Aer Lingus where there is a defined contribution pension scheme and these staff have already received 
over E600m in pay-offs, pension top ups and free shares over the past 8 years. SIPTU's attempt to shut down air 
access from the country's three main airports is unlawful, unnecessary and unfair to passengers," a statement from 
the airline said.
It called on the Dept. of Transport to explain what contingency plans the Government will put in place "to prevent 
Ireland's vital airports being closed by SIPTU if this legal action is unsuccessful"
Earlier today, the DAA said it will seek a High Court injunction against Siptu's planned strike action that threatens 
air transport chaos over the St Patrick's weekend at Dublin, Cork and Shannon Airports. The DAA said it had no 
choice but to take legal action after the trade union declined to "respond positively" to two separate communications 
calling on it to lift the threat of industrial action in a row over pensions.
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair also seek injunction over strike Airport Strike
Ryanair also seek injunction over strike; Airport Strike
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Highlight: Ryanair was granted leave to seek a High Court injunction against SIPTU's plan to shut down Dublin, 
Cork and Shannon Airports for four hours next Friday in a row over pensions.
Body
Ryanair was granted leave to seek a High Court injunction against SIPTU's plan to shut down Dublin, Cork and 
Shannon Airports for four hours next Friday in a row over pensions.
"Ryanair will not allow over 13,000 of its customers to be blackmailed by greedy SIPTU unions, particularly in the 
case of Aer Lingus where there is a defined contribution pension scheme and these staff have already received 
over E600m in pay-offs, pension top ups and free shares over the past 8 years. SIPTU's attempt to shut down air 
access from the country's three main airports is unlawful, unnecessary and unfair to passengers," a statement from 
the airline said.
It called on the Dept. of Transport to explain what contingency plans the Government will put in place "to prevent 
Ireland's vital airports being closed by SIPTU if this legal action is unsuccessful"
Earlier today, the DAA said it will seek a High Court injunction against Siptu's planned strike action that threatens 
air transport chaos over the St Patrick's weekend at Dublin, Cork and Shannon Airports. The DAA said it had no 
choice but to take legal action after the trade union declined to "respond positively" to two separate communications 
calling on it to lift the threat of industrial action in a row over pensions.
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair also seek injunction over strike Airport Strike
Ryanair also seek injunction over strike; Airport Strike
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Highlight: Ryanair was granted leave to seek a High Court injunction against SIPTU's plan to shut down Dublin, 
Cork and Shannon Airports for four hours next Friday in a row over pensions.
Body
Ryanair was granted leave to seek a High Court injunction against SIPTU's plan to shut down Dublin, Cork and 
Shannon Airports for four hours next Friday in a row over pensions.
"Ryanair will not allow over 13,000 of its customers to be blackmailed by greedy SIPTU unions, particularly in the 
case of Aer Lingus where there is a defined contribution pension scheme and these staff have already received 
over E600m in pay-offs, pension top ups and free shares over the past 8 years. SIPTU's attempt to shut down air 
access from the country's three main airports is unlawful, unnecessary and unfair to passengers," a statement from 
the airline said.
It called on the Dept. of Transport to explain what contingency plans the Government will put in place "to prevent 
Ireland's vital airports being closed by SIPTU if this legal action is unsuccessful"
Earlier today, the DAA said it will seek a High Court injunction against Siptu's planned strike action that threatens 
air transport chaos over the St Patrick's weekend at Dublin, Cork and Shannon Airports. The DAA said it had no 
choice but to take legal action after the trade union declined to "respond positively" to two separate communications 
calling on it to lift the threat of industrial action in a row over pensions.
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair also seek injunction over strike Airport Strike
Ryanair also seek injunction over strike; Airport Strike
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Highlight: Ryanair was granted leave to seek a High Court injunction against SIPTU's plan to shut down Dublin, 
Cork and Shannon Airports for four hours next Friday in a row over pensions.
Body
Ryanair was granted leave to seek a High Court injunction against SIPTU's plan to shut down Dublin, Cork and 
Shannon Airports for four hours next Friday in a row over pensions.
"Ryanair will not allow over 13,000 of its customers to be blackmailed by greedy SIPTU unions, particularly in the 
case of Aer Lingus where there is a defined contribution pension scheme and these staff have already received 
over E600m in pay-offs, pension top ups and free shares over the past 8 years. SIPTU's attempt to shut down air 
access from the country's three main airports is unlawful, unnecessary and unfair to passengers," a statement from 
the airline said.
It called on the Dept. of Transport to explain what contingency plans the Government will put in place "to prevent 
Ireland's vital airports being closed by SIPTU if this legal action is unsuccessful"
Earlier today, the DAA said it will seek a High Court injunction against Siptu's planned strike action that threatens 
air transport chaos over the St Patrick's weekend at Dublin, Cork and Shannon Airports. The DAA said it had no 
choice but to take legal action after the trade union declined to "respond positively" to two separate communications 
calling on it to lift the threat of industrial action in a row over pensions.
Load-Date: March 11, 2014
End of Document
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound Recovery Hope
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound; Recovery Hope
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 781 words
Highlight: Ireland's largest listed companies are confident over half a decade of weak earnings, gloomy outlooks 
and shrinking dividends are behind them and that the economic upturn under way is sustainable and sensible.
Body
Ireland's largest listed companies are confident over half a decade of weak earnings, gloomy outlooks and shrinking 
dividends are behind them and that the economic upturn under way is sustainable and sensible.
In a busy week of earnings, an Irish bank turned a profit for the first time since the downturn, its main state-owned 
rival said it would soon be investor-ready and the largest builders' merchant said recovery had taken hold.
That came against an improving economic backdrop following Ireland's completion of a European 
Union/International Monetary Fund bailout, with unemployment falling below the euro zone average, consumer 
sentiment hitting a near seven-year high and mortgage arrears stabilising.
"We're probably more confident about the Irish economy than we have been in any time in the last six years, and 
the last six years have been very tough for us all, for Irish people and for Irish companies," Andrew Langford, chief 
executive of general insurer FBD, told Reuters. "It is still difficult on the ground but there are a number of very 
encouraging signs. It looks like there might be a rise in consumer demand this year which follows six years where it 
has fallen by a total of 25 percent, an incredible figure." While the Irish market is of less significance to major 
international players like builder's supplier CRH and airline Ryanair than ever before, FBD is one of the few Dublin-
listed companies that are 100 percent geared to recovery at home. The insurer, which this week upped its dividend 
by 16 percent, said the level of cover being demanded was finally on the rise following a contraction of 15 percent, 
as business customers stopped laying off staff and policy holders upgraded their cars or renovated their houses. 
The number of new cars licensed jumped by almost 50 percent in January while the property market has begun to 
rebound with prices in Dublin up 14 percent on a year ago. Signs of life in the property market, the root of Ireland's 
crisis, are also being felt by building merchant Grafton , whose profits rose 27 percent last year. Among the most 
bullish about Ireland's prospects, Grafton - which has cut its workforce by a quarter - said there were few risks to 
the 7 percent rise in Irish building merchanting slowing as builders' order books fill up and the government renews 
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound Recovery Hope
its focus on the construction sector. "I think the risks are relatively low but I do think it will be quite a gradual, 
shallow recovery rather than necessarily a significant spike upwards," its chief executive and industry veteran Gavin 
Slark told Reuters. "There's always risks in any economic cycle but the really positive thing about Ireland is if you 
look at the depth of the downturn, there's an awful lot of pragmatism now in terms of people making sure the 
recovery is sensible and sustainable." The main concern shared by the country's top executives is that an external 
shock or slowdown in growth abroad could stop Ireland's open-economy achieving the 2 percent growth needed to 
start reducing one of the highest debt levels in Europe. An event outside Ireland is the biggest risk, according to 
Bank of Ireland CEO Richie Boucher, whose bank returned to profit in the first two months of this year. This week, 
two investors who kept it out of state hands in 2011 tripled their money when they sold part of their stake. Recovery 
stories like Bank of Ireland's have helped the local bourse rise by 14 percent this year to almost three-times its 2009 
level, although it is still at just a third of the value hit during the heady times of the 'Celtic Tiger' economy. For Allied 
Irish Banks, which said on Wednesday that it hoped to begin reducing the state's 99 percent holding from next year, 
the risks are the same. "The real exposure for us is European growth and not the Irish domestic, I think we've done 
a lot and it seems like the government is very disciplined and will execute the rest," Chief Executive David Duffy told 
Reuters. "You're so geared towards the export universe, European growth and the UK market, you need growth in 
those to be able to step beyond the 2 percent mark on GDP." The signs from abroad so far look good ahead of the 
release of Irish fourth quarter GDP data next week with euro zone private businesses enjoying their fastest growth 
rate in over 2-1/2 years last month. But with an economy whose exports are worth more than the total size of the 
economy, the Irish growth story needs that narrative further afield to continue. "At the moment it looks like Europe's 
larger economies are emerging from recession but any shock won't be good for what still is a fragile economic 
growth story," said FBD's Langford. (Reuters)
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound; Recovery Hope
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound; Recovery Hope
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 781 words
Highlight: Ireland's largest listed companies are confident over half a decade of weak earnings, gloomy outlooks 
and shrinking dividends are behind them and that the economic upturn under way is sustainable and sensible.
Body
Ireland's largest listed companies are confident over half a decade of weak earnings, gloomy outlooks and shrinking 
dividends are behind them and that the economic upturn under way is sustainable and sensible.
In a busy week of earnings, an Irish bank turned a profit for the first time since the downturn, its main state-owned 
rival said it would soon be investor-ready and the largest builders' merchant said recovery had taken hold.
That came against an improving economic backdrop following Ireland's completion of a European 
Union/International Monetary Fund bailout, with unemployment falling below the euro zone average, consumer 
sentiment hitting a near seven-year high and mortgage arrears stabilising.
"We're probably more confident about the Irish economy than we have been in any time in the last six years, and 
the last six years have been very tough for us all, for Irish people and for Irish companies," Andrew Langford, chief 
executive of general insurer FBD, told Reuters. "It is still difficult on the ground but there are a number of very 
encouraging signs. It looks like there might be a rise in consumer demand this year which follows six years where it 
has fallen by a total of 25 percent, an incredible figure." While the Irish market is of less significance to major 
international players like builder's supplier CRH and airline Ryanair than ever before, FBD is one of the few Dublin-
listed companies that are 100 percent geared to recovery at home. The insurer, which this week upped its dividend 
by 16 percent, said the level of cover being demanded was finally on the rise following a contraction of 15 percent, 
as business customers stopped laying off staff and policy holders upgraded their cars or renovated their houses. 
The number of new cars licensed jumped by almost 50 percent in January while the property market has begun to 
rebound with prices in Dublin up 14 percent on a year ago. Signs of life in the property market, the root of Ireland's 
crisis, are also being felt by building merchant Grafton , whose profits rose 27 percent last year. Among the most 
bullish about Ireland's prospects, Grafton - which has cut its workforce by a quarter - said there were few risks to 
the 7 percent rise in Irish building merchanting slowing as builders' order books fill up and the government renews 
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound; Recovery Hope
its focus on the construction sector. "I think the risks are relatively low but I do think it will be quite a gradual, 
shallow recovery rather than necessarily a significant spike upwards," its chief executive and industry veteran Gavin 
Slark told Reuters. "There's always risks in any economic cycle but the really positive thing about Ireland is if you 
look at the depth of the downturn, there's an awful lot of pragmatism now in terms of people making sure the 
recovery is sensible and sustainable." The main concern shared by the country's top executives is that an external 
shock or slowdown in growth abroad could stop Ireland's open-economy achieving the 2 percent growth needed to 
start reducing one of the highest debt levels in Europe. An event outside Ireland is the biggest risk, according to 
Bank of Ireland CEO Richie Boucher, whose bank returned to profit in the first two months of this year. This week, 
two investors who kept it out of state hands in 2011 tripled their money when they sold part of their stake. Recovery 
stories like Bank of Ireland's have helped the local bourse rise by 14 percent this year to almost three-times its 2009 
level, although it is still at just a third of the value hit during the heady times of the 'Celtic Tiger' economy. For Allied 
Irish Banks, which said on Wednesday that it hoped to begin reducing the state's 99 percent holding from next year, 
the risks are the same. "The real exposure for us is European growth and not the Irish domestic, I think we've done 
a lot and it seems like the government is very disciplined and will execute the rest," Chief Executive David Duffy told 
Reuters. "You're so geared towards the export universe, European growth and the UK market, you need growth in 
those to be able to step beyond the 2 percent mark on GDP." The signs from abroad so far look good ahead of the 
release of Irish fourth quarter GDP data next week with euro zone private businesses enjoying their fastest growth 
rate in over 2-1/2 years last month. But with an economy whose exports are worth more than the total size of the 
economy, the Irish growth story needs that narrative further afield to continue. "At the moment it looks like Europe's 
larger economies are emerging from recession but any shock won't be good for what still is a fragile economic 
growth story," said FBD's Langford. (Reuters)
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound Recovery Hope
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound; Recovery Hope
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 781 words
Highlight: Ireland's largest listed companies are confident over half a decade of weak earnings, gloomy outlooks 
and shrinking dividends are behind them and that the economic upturn under way is sustainable and sensible.
Body
Ireland's largest listed companies are confident over half a decade of weak earnings, gloomy outlooks and shrinking 
dividends are behind them and that the economic upturn under way is sustainable and sensible.
In a busy week of earnings, an Irish bank turned a profit for the first time since the downturn, its main state-owned 
rival said it would soon be investor-ready and the largest builders' merchant said recovery had taken hold.
That came against an improving economic backdrop following Ireland's completion of a European 
Union/International Monetary Fund bailout, with unemployment falling below the euro zone average, consumer 
sentiment hitting a near seven-year high and mortgage arrears stabilising.
"We're probably more confident about the Irish economy than we have been in any time in the last six years, and 
the last six years have been very tough for us all, for Irish people and for Irish companies," Andrew Langford, chief 
executive of general insurer FBD, told Reuters. "It is still difficult on the ground but there are a number of very 
encouraging signs. It looks like there might be a rise in consumer demand this year which follows six years where it 
has fallen by a total of 25 percent, an incredible figure." While the Irish market is of less significance to major 
international players like builder's supplier CRH and airline Ryanair than ever before, FBD is one of the few Dublin-
listed companies that are 100 percent geared to recovery at home. The insurer, which this week upped its dividend 
by 16 percent, said the level of cover being demanded was finally on the rise following a contraction of 15 percent, 
as business customers stopped laying off staff and policy holders upgraded their cars or renovated their houses. 
The number of new cars licensed jumped by almost 50 percent in January while the property market has begun to 
rebound with prices in Dublin up 14 percent on a year ago. Signs of life in the property market, the root of Ireland's 
crisis, are also being felt by building merchant Grafton , whose profits rose 27 percent last year. Among the most 
bullish about Ireland's prospects, Grafton - which has cut its workforce by a quarter - said there were few risks to 
the 7 percent rise in Irish building merchanting slowing as builders' order books fill up and the government renews 
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound Recovery Hope
its focus on the construction sector. "I think the risks are relatively low but I do think it will be quite a gradual, 
shallow recovery rather than necessarily a significant spike upwards," its chief executive and industry veteran Gavin 
Slark told Reuters. "There's always risks in any economic cycle but the really positive thing about Ireland is if you 
look at the depth of the downturn, there's an awful lot of pragmatism now in terms of people making sure the 
recovery is sensible and sustainable." The main concern shared by the country's top executives is that an external 
shock or slowdown in growth abroad could stop Ireland's open-economy achieving the 2 percent growth needed to 
start reducing one of the highest debt levels in Europe. An event outside Ireland is the biggest risk, according to 
Bank of Ireland CEO Richie Boucher, whose bank returned to profit in the first two months of this year. This week, 
two investors who kept it out of state hands in 2011 tripled their money when they sold part of their stake. Recovery 
stories like Bank of Ireland's have helped the local bourse rise by 14 percent this year to almost three-times its 2009 
level, although it is still at just a third of the value hit during the heady times of the 'Celtic Tiger' economy. For Allied 
Irish Banks, which said on Wednesday that it hoped to begin reducing the state's 99 percent holding from next year, 
the risks are the same. "The real exposure for us is European growth and not the Irish domestic, I think we've done 
a lot and it seems like the government is very disciplined and will execute the rest," Chief Executive David Duffy told 
Reuters. "You're so geared towards the export universe, European growth and the UK market, you need growth in 
those to be able to step beyond the 2 percent mark on GDP." The signs from abroad so far look good ahead of the 
release of Irish fourth quarter GDP data next week with euro zone private businesses enjoying their fastest growth 
rate in over 2-1/2 years last month. But with an economy whose exports are worth more than the total size of the 
economy, the Irish growth story needs that narrative further afield to continue. "At the moment it looks like Europe's 
larger economies are emerging from recession but any shock won't be good for what still is a fragile economic 
growth story," said FBD's Langford. (Reuters)
Load-Date: March 11, 2014
End of Document
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound Recovery Hope
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound; Recovery Hope
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 781 words
Highlight: Ireland's largest listed companies are confident over half a decade of weak earnings, gloomy outlooks 
and shrinking dividends are behind them and that the economic upturn under way is sustainable and sensible.
Body
Ireland's largest listed companies are confident over half a decade of weak earnings, gloomy outlooks and shrinking 
dividends are behind them and that the economic upturn under way is sustainable and sensible.
In a busy week of earnings, an Irish bank turned a profit for the first time since the downturn, its main state-owned 
rival said it would soon be investor-ready and the largest builders' merchant said recovery had taken hold.
That came against an improving economic backdrop following Ireland's completion of a European 
Union/International Monetary Fund bailout, with unemployment falling below the euro zone average, consumer 
sentiment hitting a near seven-year high and mortgage arrears stabilising.
"We're probably more confident about the Irish economy than we have been in any time in the last six years, and 
the last six years have been very tough for us all, for Irish people and for Irish companies," Andrew Langford, chief 
executive of general insurer FBD, told Reuters. "It is still difficult on the ground but there are a number of very 
encouraging signs. It looks like there might be a rise in consumer demand this year which follows six years where it 
has fallen by a total of 25 percent, an incredible figure." While the Irish market is of less significance to major 
international players like builder's supplier CRH and airline Ryanair than ever before, FBD is one of the few Dublin-
listed companies that are 100 percent geared to recovery at home. The insurer, which this week upped its dividend 
by 16 percent, said the level of cover being demanded was finally on the rise following a contraction of 15 percent, 
as business customers stopped laying off staff and policy holders upgraded their cars or renovated their houses. 
The number of new cars licensed jumped by almost 50 percent in January while the property market has begun to 
rebound with prices in Dublin up 14 percent on a year ago. Signs of life in the property market, the root of Ireland's 
crisis, are also being felt by building merchant Grafton , whose profits rose 27 percent last year. Among the most 
bullish about Ireland's prospects, Grafton - which has cut its workforce by a quarter - said there were few risks to 
the 7 percent rise in Irish building merchanting slowing as builders' order books fill up and the government renews 
Corporate Ireland cashes in on rebound Recovery Hope
its focus on the construction sector. "I think the risks are relatively low but I do think it will be quite a gradual, 
shallow recovery rather than necessarily a significant spike upwards," its chief executive and industry veteran Gavin 
Slark told Reuters. "There's always risks in any economic cycle but the really positive thing about Ireland is if you 
look at the depth of the downturn, there's an awful lot of pragmatism now in terms of people making sure the 
recovery is sensible and sustainable." The main concern shared by the country's top executives is that an external 
shock or slowdown in growth abroad could stop Ireland's open-economy achieving the 2 percent growth needed to 
start reducing one of the highest debt levels in Europe. An event outside Ireland is the biggest risk, according to 
Bank of Ireland CEO Richie Boucher, whose bank returned to profit in the first two months of this year. This week, 
two investors who kept it out of state hands in 2011 tripled their money when they sold part of their stake. Recovery 
stories like Bank of Ireland's have helped the local bourse rise by 14 percent this year to almost three-times its 2009 
level, although it is still at just a third of the value hit during the heady times of the 'Celtic Tiger' economy. For Allied 
Irish Banks, which said on Wednesday that it hoped to begin reducing the state's 99 percent holding from next year, 
the risks are the same. "The real exposure for us is European growth and not the Irish domestic, I think we've done 
a lot and it seems like the government is very disciplined and will execute the rest," Chief Executive David Duffy told 
Reuters. "You're so geared towards the export universe, European growth and the UK market, you need growth in 
those to be able to step beyond the 2 percent mark on GDP." The signs from abroad so far look good ahead of the 
release of Irish fourth quarter GDP data next week with euro zone private businesses enjoying their fastest growth 
rate in over 2-1/2 years last month. But with an economy whose exports are worth more than the total size of the 
economy, the Irish growth story needs that narrative further afield to continue. "At the moment it looks like Europe's 
larger economies are emerging from recession but any shock won't be good for what still is a fragile economic 
growth story," said FBD's Langford. (Reuters)
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair seeks to appoint data and CRM agency partner
Ryanair seeks to appoint data and CRM agency partner
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 7, 2014 Friday 10:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 251 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that it is seeking to appoint an agency partner to develop its data and 
customer relationship marketing (CRM) as part of its revised customer strategy.
Body
The successful agency will be the first major appointment made by Ryanair in what will be a significant digital 
development, as Ryanair continues to improve both its customer experience and industry-leading customer service, 
following the launch of a new Ryanair.com home page and 'My Ryanair' customer registration service. The pitch 
process is being managed internally and is open to all European agencies, who have been invited to submit their 
credentials and an outline of why they should be Ryanair's first agency partner (in English) by email to 
pitches@ryanair.com, by 5pm on Friday, 28th March, with an appointment set to be made by the end of April 2014. 
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is Europe's largest airline, carrying 81.5m people 
annually, more international passengers than any other airline in the world, with the largest route network, 
connecting 186 airports in 30 countries, and we're continuing to improve our customer service and customer 
communications through a series of enhancements and initiatives. 
"Data and CRM are essential foundations in our customer strategy and we want to know more about our 
customers, so we can give them a more personalised experience and offering. With that in mind, Ryanair wants the 
best and most ambitious digital agencies across Europe to put themselves forward for consideration. This is an 
exciting time in the evolution of Ryanair's business and brand and the successful agency will be a key element of 
this change."
Load-Date: March 13, 2014
End of Document
UK reject Ryanair A Lingus stake appeal Ryanair Case
UK reject Ryanair A Lingus stake appeal; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 124 words
Highlight: Britain's competition watchdog has dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a previous ruling that it has to 
sell most of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, it said today.
Body
Britain's competition watchdog has
dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a
previous ruling that it has to sell most
of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus,
it said today.
The Competition Commission upheld the previous decision that Ryanair's 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus could 
substantially reduce competition on some routes. "Ryanair's appeal dismissed," a commission spokesman said in a 
statement. The British watchdog has jurisdiction over the Irish airlines due to 11 routes between Ireland and Britain 
where Ryanair flights compete with those of Aer Lingus or partner Aer Arann. In a statement this afternoon, Ryanair 
said: "Ryanair notes today's ruling by the CAT and has instructed its lawyers to appeal this ruling to the UK Court of 
Appeal."
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
UK reject Ryanair A Lingus stake appeal Ryanair Case
UK reject Ryanair A Lingus stake appeal; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 124 words
Highlight: Britain's competition watchdog has dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a previous ruling that it has to 
sell most of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, it said today.
Body
Britain's competition watchdog has
dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a
previous ruling that it has to sell most
of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus,
it said today.
The Competition Commission upheld the previous decision that Ryanair's 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus could 
substantially reduce competition on some routes. "Ryanair's appeal dismissed," a commission spokesman said in a 
statement. The British watchdog has jurisdiction over the Irish airlines due to 11 routes between Ireland and Britain 
where Ryanair flights compete with those of Aer Lingus or partner Aer Arann. In a statement this afternoon, Ryanair 
said: "Ryanair notes today's ruling by the CAT and has instructed its lawyers to appeal this ruling to the UK Court of 
Appeal."
Load-Date: March 12, 2014
End of Document
UK reject Ryanair A Lingus stake appeal Ryanair Case
UK reject Ryanair A Lingus stake appeal; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 124 words
Highlight: Britain's competition watchdog has dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a previous ruling that it has to 
sell most of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, it said today.
Body
Britain's competition watchdog has
dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a
previous ruling that it has to sell most
of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus,
it said today.
The Competition Commission upheld the previous decision that Ryanair's 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus could 
substantially reduce competition on some routes. "Ryanair's appeal dismissed," a commission spokesman said in a 
statement. The British watchdog has jurisdiction over the Irish airlines due to 11 routes between Ireland and Britain 
where Ryanair flights compete with those of Aer Lingus or partner Aer Arann. In a statement this afternoon, Ryanair 
said: "Ryanair notes today's ruling by the CAT and has instructed its lawyers to appeal this ruling to the UK Court of 
Appeal."
Load-Date: March 11, 2014
End of Document
UK reject Ryanair A Lingus stake appeal Ryanair Case
UK reject Ryanair A Lingus stake appeal; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
March 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 124 words
Highlight: Britain's competition watchdog has dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a previous ruling that it has to 
sell most of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, it said today.
Body
Britain's competition watchdog has
dismissed a Ryanair appeal against a
previous ruling that it has to sell most
of its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus,
it said today.
The Competition Commission upheld the previous decision that Ryanair's 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus could 
substantially reduce competition on some routes. "Ryanair's appeal dismissed," a commission spokesman said in a 
statement. The British watchdog has jurisdiction over the Irish airlines due to 11 routes between Ireland and Britain 
where Ryanair flights compete with those of Aer Lingus or partner Aer Arann. In a statement this afternoon, Ryanair 
said: "Ryanair notes today's ruling by the CAT and has instructed its lawyers to appeal this ruling to the UK Court of 
Appeal."
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet and Ryanair lift traffic; IN BRIEF
EasyJet and Ryanair lift traffic; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
March 7, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 84 words
Body
EasyJet carried 4.2m passengers in February, up 2.9 per cent on a year ago, the budget carrier announced 
yesterday. Its 12-month traffic is up 3.5 per cent on the previous year. Meanwhile, Ryanair hailed its new customer 
service upgrades for helping boost passenger numbers seven per cent to 4.5m last month, taking its rolling annual 
growth to three per cent. Aer Lingus, which is due to learn the fate of a competition appeal over Ryanair's stake in 
the firm today, posted a three per cent fall in traffic.
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair February passenger traffic increases
Ryanair February passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 7, 2014 Friday 9:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 126 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has reported that passenger traffic for the month of February 2014 was 4.5 million 
passengers, an increase of 7%, compared to 4.2 million passengers for February 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of February 2014 was 78%, an increase of one percentage point, compared to 77% for 
February 2013. For the year-to-date period, total passenger traffic was 81.9 million passengers, an increase of 3%, 
compared to the corresponding period of 2013. Robin Kiely, head of communications at Ryanair, said: "Ryanair 
traffic grew by 300,000 to 4.5m customers in February, thanks to the success of our lower fares, our easier to use 
website and our recent customer service improvements including allocated seats for all customers and the use of 
personal electronic devices on all flights. Further improvements will be rolled out over the coming months as 
Ryanair continues to lower prices and improve our industry leading customer service."
Load-Date: March 13, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin ISEQ Up
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 321 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by Irish Continental Group and Origin Enterprises 
after strong earnings reports.
Body
The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by Irish Continental Group and Origin Enterprises after strong 
earnings reports.
At the close, the index was up 37.20 points to 5,143.84.
Irish Ferries owners, Irish Continental Group (ICG) today said its revenue for the year to the end of December rose 
by 3.4pc to E264.7m from E256.1m as the upturn in the economy lifted passenger numbers. Operating profits for 
the year grew by over 13pc to E30m from E26.5m. The company said the number of passengers it carried last year 
rose by 1.6pc to 1.568 million passengers while the number of cars using its services fell by 0.8pc to 350,000. Its 
Ro-Ro freight services saw an 11.8pc jump to 205,300 units, while container freight units increased by 10.4pc to 
279,200. ICG said it was proposing a final dividend of 67 cent, which makes a total dividend for the year of 100 
cent. ICG's shares climbed 50c to E31.50.
Shares in Aer Lingus were down 1c at E1.68 after it said total traffic for February, including Aer Lingus Regional 
scheduled flights, was down 1.2pc to 640,000 passengers compared to February 2013, the airline said today. 
Shares in Ryanair rose 12c to E7.50 as passenger numbers rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the 
same month last year, the airline said this morning. Origin Enterprises stocks rose 18c to E7.38 after it said 
revenues in its first half of the year dipped slightly but that it is raising its earnings guidance for the full year. The 
company said revenue for the six month period fell by 8.8pc to E517.6m from E567.7m due to both lower global 
fertiliser and feed prices. These were partially offset by increased fertiliser, crop protection and crop marketing 
volumes. Operating profits from the agri services sector rose to E4m from E2.4m the same time the previous year 
after a return to more normal winter cropping patterns after the extreme weather conditions in the previous period.
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 6, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin ISEQ Up
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 321 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by Irish Continental Group and Origin Enterprises 
after strong earnings reports.
Body
The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by Irish Continental Group and Origin Enterprises after strong 
earnings reports.
At the close, the index was up 37.20 points to 5,143.84.
Irish Ferries owners, Irish Continental Group (ICG) today said its revenue for the year to the end of December rose 
by 3.4pc to E264.7m from E256.1m as the upturn in the economy lifted passenger numbers. Operating profits for 
the year grew by over 13pc to E30m from E26.5m. The company said the number of passengers it carried last year 
rose by 1.6pc to 1.568 million passengers while the number of cars using its services fell by 0.8pc to 350,000. Its 
Ro-Ro freight services saw an 11.8pc jump to 205,300 units, while container freight units increased by 10.4pc to 
279,200. ICG said it was proposing a final dividend of 67 cent, which makes a total dividend for the year of 100 
cent. ICG's shares climbed 50c to E31.50.
Shares in Aer Lingus were down 1c at E1.68 after it said total traffic for February, including Aer Lingus Regional 
scheduled flights, was down 1.2pc to 640,000 passengers compared to February 2013, the airline said today. 
Shares in Ryanair rose 12c to E7.50 as passenger numbers rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the 
same month last year, the airline said this morning. Origin Enterprises stocks rose 18c to E7.38 after it said 
revenues in its first half of the year dipped slightly but that it is raising its earnings guidance for the full year. The 
company said revenue for the six month period fell by 8.8pc to E517.6m from E567.7m due to both lower global 
fertiliser and feed prices. These were partially offset by increased fertiliser, crop protection and crop marketing 
volumes. Operating profits from the agri services sector rose to E4m from E2.4m the same time the previous year 
after a return to more normal winter cropping patterns after the extreme weather conditions in the previous period.
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin ISEQ Up
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 321 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by Irish Continental Group and Origin Enterprises 
after strong earnings reports.
Body
The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by Irish Continental Group and Origin Enterprises after strong 
earnings reports.
At the close, the index was up 37.20 points to 5,143.84.
Irish Ferries owners, Irish Continental Group (ICG) today said its revenue for the year to the end of December rose 
by 3.4pc to E264.7m from E256.1m as the upturn in the economy lifted passenger numbers. Operating profits for 
the year grew by over 13pc to E30m from E26.5m. The company said the number of passengers it carried last year 
rose by 1.6pc to 1.568 million passengers while the number of cars using its services fell by 0.8pc to 350,000. Its 
Ro-Ro freight services saw an 11.8pc jump to 205,300 units, while container freight units increased by 10.4pc to 
279,200. ICG said it was proposing a final dividend of 67 cent, which makes a total dividend for the year of 100 
cent. ICG's shares climbed 50c to E31.50.
Shares in Aer Lingus were down 1c at E1.68 after it said total traffic for February, including Aer Lingus Regional 
scheduled flights, was down 1.2pc to 640,000 passengers compared to February 2013, the airline said today. 
Shares in Ryanair rose 12c to E7.50 as passenger numbers rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the 
same month last year, the airline said this morning. Origin Enterprises stocks rose 18c to E7.38 after it said 
revenues in its first half of the year dipped slightly but that it is raising its earnings guidance for the full year. The 
company said revenue for the six month period fell by 8.8pc to E517.6m from E567.7m due to both lower global 
fertiliser and feed prices. These were partially offset by increased fertiliser, crop protection and crop marketing 
volumes. Operating profits from the agri services sector rose to E4m from E2.4m the same time the previous year 
after a return to more normal winter cropping patterns after the extreme weather conditions in the previous period.
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 11, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin ISEQ Up
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 321 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by Irish Continental Group and Origin Enterprises 
after strong earnings reports.
Body
The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by Irish Continental Group and Origin Enterprises after strong 
earnings reports.
At the close, the index was up 37.20 points to 5,143.84.
Irish Ferries owners, Irish Continental Group (ICG) today said its revenue for the year to the end of December rose 
by 3.4pc to E264.7m from E256.1m as the upturn in the economy lifted passenger numbers. Operating profits for 
the year grew by over 13pc to E30m from E26.5m. The company said the number of passengers it carried last year 
rose by 1.6pc to 1.568 million passengers while the number of cars using its services fell by 0.8pc to 350,000. Its 
Ro-Ro freight services saw an 11.8pc jump to 205,300 units, while container freight units increased by 10.4pc to 
279,200. ICG said it was proposing a final dividend of 67 cent, which makes a total dividend for the year of 100 
cent. ICG's shares climbed 50c to E31.50.
Shares in Aer Lingus were down 1c at E1.68 after it said total traffic for February, including Aer Lingus Regional 
scheduled flights, was down 1.2pc to 640,000 passengers compared to February 2013, the airline said today. 
Shares in Ryanair rose 12c to E7.50 as passenger numbers rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the 
same month last year, the airline said this morning. Origin Enterprises stocks rose 18c to E7.38 after it said 
revenues in its first half of the year dipped slightly but that it is raising its earnings guidance for the full year. The 
company said revenue for the six month period fell by 8.8pc to E517.6m from E567.7m due to both lower global 
fertiliser and feed prices. These were partially offset by increased fertiliser, crop protection and crop marketing 
volumes. Operating profits from the agri services sector rose to E4m from E2.4m the same time the previous year 
after a return to more normal winter cropping patterns after the extreme weather conditions in the previous period.
ISEQ rise led by ICG, Origin ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains ISEQ Up
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 322 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by a 1.3pc jump in Irish Continental Group's stocks 
on the back of strong earnings results.
Body
The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by a 1.3pc jump in Irish Continental Group's stocks on the 
back of strong earnings results.
By 12:30, the index was up 47.64 points to 5,154.28.
Irish Ferries owners, Irish Continental Group (ICG) today said its revenue for the year to the end of December rose 
by 3.4pc to E264.7m from E256.1m as the upturn in the economy lifted passenger numbers. Operating profits for 
the year grew by over 13pc to E30m from E26.5m. The company said the number of passengers it carried last year 
rose by 1.6pc to 1.568 million passengers while the number of cars using its services fell by 0.8pc to 350,000. Its 
Ro-Ro freight services saw an 11.8pc jump to 205,300 units, while container freight units increased by 10.4pc to 
279,200. ICG said it was proposing a final dividend of 67 cent, which makes a total dividend for the year of 100 
cent. ICG's shares climbed 40c to E31.40.
Shares in Aer Lingus were flat at E1.68 after it said total traffic for February, including Aer Lingus Regional 
scheduled flights, was down 1.2pc to 640,000 passengers compared to February 2013, the airline said today. 
Shares in Ryanair rose 17c to E7.55 as passenger numbers rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the 
same month last year, the airline said this morning. Origin Enterprises stocks rose 19c to E7.39 after it said 
revenues in its first half of the year dipped slightly but that it is raising its earnings guidance for the full year. The 
company said revenue for the six month period fell by 8.8pc to E517.6m from E567.7m due to both lower global 
fertiliser and feed prices. These were partially offset by increased fertiliser, crop protection and crop marketing 
volumes. Operating profits from the agri services sector rose to E4m from E2.4m the same time the previous year 
after a return to more normal winter cropping patterns after the extreme weather conditions in the previous period.
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 6, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains ISEQ Up
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 322 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by a 1.3pc jump in Irish Continental Group's stocks 
on the back of strong earnings results.
Body
The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by a 1.3pc jump in Irish Continental Group's stocks on the 
back of strong earnings results.
By 12:30, the index was up 47.64 points to 5,154.28.
Irish Ferries owners, Irish Continental Group (ICG) today said its revenue for the year to the end of December rose 
by 3.4pc to E264.7m from E256.1m as the upturn in the economy lifted passenger numbers. Operating profits for 
the year grew by over 13pc to E30m from E26.5m. The company said the number of passengers it carried last year 
rose by 1.6pc to 1.568 million passengers while the number of cars using its services fell by 0.8pc to 350,000. Its 
Ro-Ro freight services saw an 11.8pc jump to 205,300 units, while container freight units increased by 10.4pc to 
279,200. ICG said it was proposing a final dividend of 67 cent, which makes a total dividend for the year of 100 
cent. ICG's shares climbed 40c to E31.40.
Shares in Aer Lingus were flat at E1.68 after it said total traffic for February, including Aer Lingus Regional 
scheduled flights, was down 1.2pc to 640,000 passengers compared to February 2013, the airline said today. 
Shares in Ryanair rose 17c to E7.55 as passenger numbers rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the 
same month last year, the airline said this morning. Origin Enterprises stocks rose 19c to E7.39 after it said 
revenues in its first half of the year dipped slightly but that it is raising its earnings guidance for the full year. The 
company said revenue for the six month period fell by 8.8pc to E517.6m from E567.7m due to both lower global 
fertiliser and feed prices. These were partially offset by increased fertiliser, crop protection and crop marketing 
volumes. Operating profits from the agri services sector rose to E4m from E2.4m the same time the previous year 
after a return to more normal winter cropping patterns after the extreme weather conditions in the previous period.
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains ISEQ Up
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 322 words
Highlight: The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by a 1.3pc jump in Irish Continental Group's stocks 
on the back of strong earnings results.
Body
The ISEQ rose for the second straight day today, led by a 1.3pc jump in Irish Continental Group's stocks on the 
back of strong earnings results.
By 12:30, the index was up 47.64 points to 5,154.28.
Irish Ferries owners, Irish Continental Group (ICG) today said its revenue for the year to the end of December rose 
by 3.4pc to E264.7m from E256.1m as the upturn in the economy lifted passenger numbers. Operating profits for 
the year grew by over 13pc to E30m from E26.5m. The company said the number of passengers it carried last year 
rose by 1.6pc to 1.568 million passengers while the number of cars using its services fell by 0.8pc to 350,000. Its 
Ro-Ro freight services saw an 11.8pc jump to 205,300 units, while container freight units increased by 10.4pc to 
279,200. ICG said it was proposing a final dividend of 67 cent, which makes a total dividend for the year of 100 
cent. ICG's shares climbed 40c to E31.40.
Shares in Aer Lingus were flat at E1.68 after it said total traffic for February, including Aer Lingus Regional 
scheduled flights, was down 1.2pc to 640,000 passengers compared to February 2013, the airline said today. 
Shares in Ryanair rose 17c to E7.55 as passenger numbers rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the 
same month last year, the airline said this morning. Origin Enterprises stocks rose 19c to E7.39 after it said 
revenues in its first half of the year dipped slightly but that it is raising its earnings guidance for the full year. The 
company said revenue for the six month period fell by 8.8pc to E517.6m from E567.7m due to both lower global 
fertiliser and feed prices. These were partially offset by increased fertiliser, crop protection and crop marketing 
volumes. Operating profits from the agri services sector rose to E4m from E2.4m the same time the previous year 
after a return to more normal winter cropping patterns after the extreme weather conditions in the previous period.
ISEQ rises for second day, ICG gains ISEQ Up
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers up 7pc in Feb Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers up 7pc in Feb; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 66 words
Highlight: Passenger numbers at Ryanair rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the same month last 
year, the airline said this morning.
Body
Passenger numbers at Ryanair rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the same month last year, the 
airline said this morning.
In the 12 months to the end of February, it carried 81.9 million passengers, a 3pc improvement compared to the 
same period a year ago.
The airline's load factor, an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, rose by 1pc to 78pc in 
February.
Load-Date: March 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers up 7pc in Feb; Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers up 7pc in Feb; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 66 words
Highlight: Passenger numbers at Ryanair rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the same month last 
year, the airline said this morning.
Body
Passenger numbers at Ryanair rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the same month last year, the 
airline said this morning.
In the 12 months to the end of February, it carried 81.9 million passengers, a 3pc improvement compared to the 
same period a year ago.
The airline's load factor, an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, rose by 1pc to 78pc in 
February.
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers up 7pc in Feb Ryanair PAX
Ryanair passenger numbers up 7pc in Feb; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 66 words
Highlight: Passenger numbers at Ryanair rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the same month last 
year, the airline said this morning.
Body
Passenger numbers at Ryanair rose by 7pc in February to 4.5 million compared to the same month last year, the 
airline said this morning.
In the 12 months to the end of February, it carried 81.9 million passengers, a 3pc improvement compared to the 
same period a year ago.
The airline's load factor, an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, rose by 1pc to 78pc in 
February.
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair February Traffic Rises - Quick Facts
Ryanair February Traffic Rises - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
March 6, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 139 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) said that traffic for the month of February 
2014 grew 7% to 4.5 million customers from last year's 4.2 million customers.
Monthly load factor increased 1% to 78% from 77% in the same month last year.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "Ryanair traffic grew by 300,000 to 4.5m customers in February, thanks to the success 
of our lower fares, our easier to use website and our recent customer service improvements including allocated 
seats for all customers and the use of personal electronic devices on all flights. Further improvements will be rolled 
out over the coming months as Ryanair continues to lower prices and improve our industry leading customer 
service."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner Ryanair CRM
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner; Ryanair CRM
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 273 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it is seeking to appoint an agency partner to develop its data and customer 
relationship marketing as part of its revised customer strategy.
Body
Ryanair today said it is seeking to appoint an agency partner to develop its data and customer relationship 
marketing as part of its revised customer strategy.
The successful agency will be the first major appointment made by Ryanair in what will be a significant digital 
development, as Ryanair strives to improve its battered customer relations.
The news follows the launch of a new Ryanair.com home page and 'My Ryanair' customer registration service.
The pitch process is being managed internally and is open to all European agencies, who have been invited to 
submit their credentials and an outline of why they should be Ryanair's first agency partner (in English) by email to 
pitches@ryanair.com, by 5pm on Friday, 28th March, with an appointment set to be made by the end of April 2014. 
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is Europe's largest airline, carrying 81.5m people 
annually, more international passengers than any other airline in the world, with the largest route network, 
connecting 186 airports in 30 countries, and we're continuing to improve our customer service and customer 
communications through a series of enhancements and initiatives." "Data and CRM are essential foundations in our 
customer strategy and we want to know more about our customers, so we can give them a more personalised 
experience and offering. With that in mind, Ryanair wants the best and most ambitious digital agencies across 
Europe to put themselves forward for consideration. This is an exciting time in the evolution of Ryanair's business 
and brand and the successful agency will be a key element of this change."
Load-Date: March 6, 2014
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner Ryanair CRM
End of Document
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner Ryanair CRM
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner; Ryanair CRM
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 273 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it is seeking to appoint an agency partner to develop its data and customer 
relationship marketing as part of its revised customer strategy.
Body
Ryanair today said it is seeking to appoint an agency partner to develop its data and customer relationship 
marketing as part of its revised customer strategy.
The successful agency will be the first major appointment made by Ryanair in what will be a significant digital 
development, as Ryanair strives to improve its battered customer relations.
The news follows the launch of a new Ryanair.com home page and 'My Ryanair' customer registration service.
The pitch process is being managed internally and is open to all European agencies, who have been invited to 
submit their credentials and an outline of why they should be Ryanair's first agency partner (in English) by email to 
pitches@ryanair.com, by 5pm on Friday, 28th March, with an appointment set to be made by the end of April 2014. 
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is Europe's largest airline, carrying 81.5m people 
annually, more international passengers than any other airline in the world, with the largest route network, 
connecting 186 airports in 30 countries, and we're continuing to improve our customer service and customer 
communications through a series of enhancements and initiatives." "Data and CRM are essential foundations in our 
customer strategy and we want to know more about our customers, so we can give them a more personalised 
experience and offering. With that in mind, Ryanair wants the best and most ambitious digital agencies across 
Europe to put themselves forward for consideration. This is an exciting time in the evolution of Ryanair's business 
and brand and the successful agency will be a key element of this change."
Load-Date: March 5, 2014
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner Ryanair CRM
End of Document
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner Ryanair CRM
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner; Ryanair CRM
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 273 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it is seeking to appoint an agency partner to develop its data and customer 
relationship marketing as part of its revised customer strategy.
Body
Ryanair today said it is seeking to appoint an agency partner to develop its data and customer relationship 
marketing as part of its revised customer strategy.
The successful agency will be the first major appointment made by Ryanair in what will be a significant digital 
development, as Ryanair strives to improve its battered customer relations.
The news follows the launch of a new Ryanair.com home page and 'My Ryanair' customer registration service.
The pitch process is being managed internally and is open to all European agencies, who have been invited to 
submit their credentials and an outline of why they should be Ryanair's first agency partner (in English) by email to 
pitches@ryanair.com, by 5pm on Friday, 28th March, with an appointment set to be made by the end of April 2014. 
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is Europe's largest airline, carrying 81.5m people 
annually, more international passengers than any other airline in the world, with the largest route network, 
connecting 186 airports in 30 countries, and we're continuing to improve our customer service and customer 
communications through a series of enhancements and initiatives." "Data and CRM are essential foundations in our 
customer strategy and we want to know more about our customers, so we can give them a more personalised 
experience and offering. With that in mind, Ryanair wants the best and most ambitious digital agencies across 
Europe to put themselves forward for consideration. This is an exciting time in the evolution of Ryanair's business 
and brand and the successful agency will be a key element of this change."
Load-Date: March 4, 2014
Ryanair seeks data and CRM partner Ryanair CRM
End of Document
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground ISEQ Up
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 508 words
Highlight: The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the 
Ukraine crisis with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
Body
The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the Ukraine crisis 
with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
By 12:45, the index was up 33.48 points to 5,103.11.
Shares in Total Produce gained 3c to E0.97 after it posted pre-tax profits that rose 12.5pc to E52.9m last year on 
the back of revenues that climbed 13pc to E3.2bn as a slew of acquisitions became revenue generating. The 
company has recommended an increase of 10pc in its final dividend to 1.66 cent per share. This together with the 
interim dividend of 0.61 cent per share brings the total 2013 dividend to 2.27 cent per share - a rise of over 9pc on 
2012. "Total Produce has recorded a strong performance in 2013 with total revenue increasing by 13.0pc to E3.2 
billion and adjusted earnings per share increasing by 10.5pc to 8.77 cent per share. The Group's growth is primarily 
driven by successful acquisitions completed in recent years including the investment in Oppenheimer in North 
America," said Carl McCann, Chairman. "We are also pleased to announce a 10pc increase in the final dividend to 
1.66 cent per share. The Group actively continues to pursue further investment opportunities and is targeting 
adjusted earnings per share for 2014 in the range of 8.4 cent to 9.4 cent per share," he added.
Ryanair's stocks gained 10c to E7.28 as oil prices stabilised today following rapid rises yesterday. Paddy Power's 
stocks dipped 3c to E60.30 after it saw its 2013 profits hit by an "exceptional run of punter-friendly sports results" 
last year, its results out today show. But pre-tax profits still rose to a record E141m last year, from E139.2m in 2012. 
Sporting results, including Andy Murray's win at Wimbledon and Phil Mickelson's victory at the British Open, 
negatively affected profits. Online profits rose, while UK and Irish retail and telephone profits dropped. Online drove 
the business in 2013, with total profits of E107m, up from E103.5m the previous year.Earnings in 2013 were hit by a 
E10m headwind from new product fees and taxes, currency depreciation, and the company's first full year of 
investment in Italy. Davy Stockbrokers said that, given the trading update provided by management in mid-
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground ISEQ Up
November, the full-year results announcement contains few surprises. "The trends evidenced at that time remain in 
place: good top-line growth across the online divisions is being largely offset by a combination of rising gaming 
taxes (in Australia in 2013, in Ireland in 2014 and in the UK in 2015), recent adverse currency movements, ongoing 
investment phase losses in Italy and ongoing (and perhaps irrational) competition in the UK online market. While 
current trading has been impacted by adverse sports results year-to-date, we do not foresee material reductions to 
our earnings forecasts for 2014 at this point with an offsetting saving arising from the fact that an Irish non-retail 
turnover tax, which we had built into our forecasts from January 1st, is now unlikely to come into effect until July 1st 
at the earliest."
Load-Date: March 6, 2014
End of Document
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground ISEQ Up
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 508 words
Highlight: The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the 
Ukraine crisis with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
Body
The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the Ukraine crisis 
with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
By 12:45, the index was up 33.48 points to 5,103.11.
Shares in Total Produce gained 3c to E0.97 after it posted pre-tax profits that rose 12.5pc to E52.9m last year on 
the back of revenues that climbed 13pc to E3.2bn as a slew of acquisitions became revenue generating. The 
company has recommended an increase of 10pc in its final dividend to 1.66 cent per share. This together with the 
interim dividend of 0.61 cent per share brings the total 2013 dividend to 2.27 cent per share - a rise of over 9pc on 
2012. "Total Produce has recorded a strong performance in 2013 with total revenue increasing by 13.0pc to E3.2 
billion and adjusted earnings per share increasing by 10.5pc to 8.77 cent per share. The Group's growth is primarily 
driven by successful acquisitions completed in recent years including the investment in Oppenheimer in North 
America," said Carl McCann, Chairman. "We are also pleased to announce a 10pc increase in the final dividend to 
1.66 cent per share. The Group actively continues to pursue further investment opportunities and is targeting 
adjusted earnings per share for 2014 in the range of 8.4 cent to 9.4 cent per share," he added.
Ryanair's stocks gained 10c to E7.28 as oil prices stabilised today following rapid rises yesterday. Paddy Power's 
stocks dipped 3c to E60.30 after it saw its 2013 profits hit by an "exceptional run of punter-friendly sports results" 
last year, its results out today show. But pre-tax profits still rose to a record E141m last year, from E139.2m in 2012. 
Sporting results, including Andy Murray's win at Wimbledon and Phil Mickelson's victory at the British Open, 
negatively affected profits. Online profits rose, while UK and Irish retail and telephone profits dropped. Online drove 
the business in 2013, with total profits of E107m, up from E103.5m the previous year.Earnings in 2013 were hit by a 
E10m headwind from new product fees and taxes, currency depreciation, and the company's first full year of 
investment in Italy. Davy Stockbrokers said that, given the trading update provided by management in mid-
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground ISEQ Up
November, the full-year results announcement contains few surprises. "The trends evidenced at that time remain in 
place: good top-line growth across the online divisions is being largely offset by a combination of rising gaming 
taxes (in Australia in 2013, in Ireland in 2014 and in the UK in 2015), recent adverse currency movements, ongoing 
investment phase losses in Italy and ongoing (and perhaps irrational) competition in the UK online market. While 
current trading has been impacted by adverse sports results year-to-date, we do not foresee material reductions to 
our earnings forecasts for 2014 at this point with an offsetting saving arising from the fact that an Irish non-retail 
turnover tax, which we had built into our forecasts from January 1st, is now unlikely to come into effect until July 1st 
at the earliest."
Load-Date: March 4, 2014
End of Document
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground ISEQ Up
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 508 words
Highlight: The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the 
Ukraine crisis with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
Body
The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the Ukraine crisis 
with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
By 12:45, the index was up 33.48 points to 5,103.11.
Shares in Total Produce gained 3c to E0.97 after it posted pre-tax profits that rose 12.5pc to E52.9m last year on 
the back of revenues that climbed 13pc to E3.2bn as a slew of acquisitions became revenue generating. The 
company has recommended an increase of 10pc in its final dividend to 1.66 cent per share. This together with the 
interim dividend of 0.61 cent per share brings the total 2013 dividend to 2.27 cent per share - a rise of over 9pc on 
2012. "Total Produce has recorded a strong performance in 2013 with total revenue increasing by 13.0pc to E3.2 
billion and adjusted earnings per share increasing by 10.5pc to 8.77 cent per share. The Group's growth is primarily 
driven by successful acquisitions completed in recent years including the investment in Oppenheimer in North 
America," said Carl McCann, Chairman. "We are also pleased to announce a 10pc increase in the final dividend to 
1.66 cent per share. The Group actively continues to pursue further investment opportunities and is targeting 
adjusted earnings per share for 2014 in the range of 8.4 cent to 9.4 cent per share," he added.
Ryanair's stocks gained 10c to E7.28 as oil prices stabilised today following rapid rises yesterday. Paddy Power's 
stocks dipped 3c to E60.30 after it saw its 2013 profits hit by an "exceptional run of punter-friendly sports results" 
last year, its results out today show. But pre-tax profits still rose to a record E141m last year, from E139.2m in 2012. 
Sporting results, including Andy Murray's win at Wimbledon and Phil Mickelson's victory at the British Open, 
negatively affected profits. Online profits rose, while UK and Irish retail and telephone profits dropped. Online drove 
the business in 2013, with total profits of E107m, up from E103.5m the previous year.Earnings in 2013 were hit by a 
E10m headwind from new product fees and taxes, currency depreciation, and the company's first full year of 
investment in Italy. Davy Stockbrokers said that, given the trading update provided by management in mid-
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground ISEQ Up
November, the full-year results announcement contains few surprises. "The trends evidenced at that time remain in 
place: good top-line growth across the online divisions is being largely offset by a combination of rising gaming 
taxes (in Australia in 2013, in Ireland in 2014 and in the UK in 2015), recent adverse currency movements, ongoing 
investment phase losses in Italy and ongoing (and perhaps irrational) competition in the UK online market. While 
current trading has been impacted by adverse sports results year-to-date, we do not foresee material reductions to 
our earnings forecasts for 2014 at this point with an offsetting saving arising from the fact that an Irish non-retail 
turnover tax, which we had built into our forecasts from January 1st, is now unlikely to come into effect until July 1st 
at the earliest."
Load-Date: March 5, 2014
End of Document
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground ISEQ Up
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground; ISEQ Up
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 508 words
Highlight: The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the 
Ukraine crisis with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
Body
The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the Ukraine crisis 
with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
By 12:45, the index was up 33.48 points to 5,103.11.
Shares in Total Produce gained 3c to E0.97 after it posted pre-tax profits that rose 12.5pc to E52.9m last year on 
the back of revenues that climbed 13pc to E3.2bn as a slew of acquisitions became revenue generating. The 
company has recommended an increase of 10pc in its final dividend to 1.66 cent per share. This together with the 
interim dividend of 0.61 cent per share brings the total 2013 dividend to 2.27 cent per share - a rise of over 9pc on 
2012. "Total Produce has recorded a strong performance in 2013 with total revenue increasing by 13.0pc to E3.2 
billion and adjusted earnings per share increasing by 10.5pc to 8.77 cent per share. The Group's growth is primarily 
driven by successful acquisitions completed in recent years including the investment in Oppenheimer in North 
America," said Carl McCann, Chairman. "We are also pleased to announce a 10pc increase in the final dividend to 
1.66 cent per share. The Group actively continues to pursue further investment opportunities and is targeting 
adjusted earnings per share for 2014 in the range of 8.4 cent to 9.4 cent per share," he added.
Ryanair's stocks gained 10c to E7.28 as oil prices stabilised today following rapid rises yesterday. Paddy Power's 
stocks dipped 3c to E60.30 after it saw its 2013 profits hit by an "exceptional run of punter-friendly sports results" 
last year, its results out today show. But pre-tax profits still rose to a record E141m last year, from E139.2m in 2012. 
Sporting results, including Andy Murray's win at Wimbledon and Phil Mickelson's victory at the British Open, 
negatively affected profits. Online profits rose, while UK and Irish retail and telephone profits dropped. Online drove 
the business in 2013, with total profits of E107m, up from E103.5m the previous year.Earnings in 2013 were hit by a 
E10m headwind from new product fees and taxes, currency depreciation, and the company's first full year of 
investment in Italy. Davy Stockbrokers said that, given the trading update provided by management in mid-
Total, Ryanair help ISEQ regain ground ISEQ Up
November, the full-year results announcement contains few surprises. "The trends evidenced at that time remain in 
place: good top-line growth across the online divisions is being largely offset by a combination of rising gaming 
taxes (in Australia in 2013, in Ireland in 2014 and in the UK in 2015), recent adverse currency movements, ongoing 
investment phase losses in Italy and ongoing (and perhaps irrational) competition in the UK online market. While 
current trading has been impacted by adverse sports results year-to-date, we do not foresee material reductions to 
our earnings forecasts for 2014 at this point with an offsetting saving arising from the fact that an Irish non-retail 
turnover tax, which we had built into our forecasts from January 1st, is now unlikely to come into effect until July 1st 
at the earliest."
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease ISEQ Rises
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease; ISEQ Rises
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 507 words
Highlight: The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the 
Ukraine crisis with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
Body
The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the Ukraine crisis 
with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
The index was up 21.91 points to 5,091.54.
Shares in Total Produce gained 3c to E0.97 after it posted pre-tax profits that rose 12.5pc to E52.9m last year on 
the back of revenues that climbed 13pc to E3.2bn as a slew of acquisitions became revenue generating. The 
company has recommended an increase of 10pc in its final dividend to 1.66 cent per share. This together with the 
interim dividend of 0.61 cent per share brings the total 2013 dividend to 2.27 cent per share - a rise of over 9pc on 
2012. "Total Produce has recorded a strong performance in 2013 with total revenue increasing by 13.0pc to E3.2 
billion and adjusted earnings per share increasing by 10.5pc to 8.77 cent per share. The Group's growth is primarily 
driven by successful acquisitions completed in recent years including the investment in Oppenheimer in North 
America," said Carl McCann, Chairman. "We are also pleased to announce a 10pc increase in the final dividend to 
1.66 cent per share. The Group actively continues to pursue further investment opportunities and is targeting 
adjusted earnings per share for 2014 in the range of 8.4 cent to 9.4 cent per share," he added.
Ryanair's stocks gained 8c to E7.26 as oil prices stabilised today following rapid rises yesterday. Paddy Power's 
stocks dipped 12c to E60.21 after it saw its 2013 profits hit by an "exceptional run of punter-friendly sports results" 
last year, its results out today show. But pre-tax profits still rose to a record E141m last year, from E139.2m in 2012. 
Sporting results, including Andy Murray's win at Wimbledon and Phil Mickelson's victory at the British Open, 
negatively affected profits. Online profits rose, while UK and Irish retail and telephone profits dropped. Online drove 
the business in 2013, with total profits of E107m, up from E103.5m the previous year.Earnings in 2013 were hit by a 
E10m headwind from new product fees and taxes, currency depreciation, and the company's first full year of 
investment in Italy. Davy Stockbrokers said that, given the trading update provided by management in mid-
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease ISEQ Rises
November, the full-year results announcement contains few surprises. "The trends evidenced at that time remain in 
place: good top-line growth across the online divisions is being largely offset by a combination of rising gaming 
taxes (in Australia in 2013, in Ireland in 2014 and in the UK in 2015), recent adverse currency movements, ongoing 
investment phase losses in Italy and ongoing (and perhaps irrational) competition in the UK online market. While 
current trading has been impacted by adverse sports results year-to-date, we do not foresee material reductions to 
our earnings forecasts for 2014 at this point with an offsetting saving arising from the fact that an Irish non-retail 
turnover tax, which we had built into our forecasts from January 1st, is now unlikely to come into effect until July 1st 
at the earliest."
Load-Date: March 5, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease ISEQ Rises
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease; ISEQ Rises
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 507 words
Highlight: The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the 
Ukraine crisis with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
Body
The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the Ukraine crisis 
with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
The index was up 21.91 points to 5,091.54.
Shares in Total Produce gained 3c to E0.97 after it posted pre-tax profits that rose 12.5pc to E52.9m last year on 
the back of revenues that climbed 13pc to E3.2bn as a slew of acquisitions became revenue generating. The 
company has recommended an increase of 10pc in its final dividend to 1.66 cent per share. This together with the 
interim dividend of 0.61 cent per share brings the total 2013 dividend to 2.27 cent per share - a rise of over 9pc on 
2012. "Total Produce has recorded a strong performance in 2013 with total revenue increasing by 13.0pc to E3.2 
billion and adjusted earnings per share increasing by 10.5pc to 8.77 cent per share. The Group's growth is primarily 
driven by successful acquisitions completed in recent years including the investment in Oppenheimer in North 
America," said Carl McCann, Chairman. "We are also pleased to announce a 10pc increase in the final dividend to 
1.66 cent per share. The Group actively continues to pursue further investment opportunities and is targeting 
adjusted earnings per share for 2014 in the range of 8.4 cent to 9.4 cent per share," he added.
Ryanair's stocks gained 8c to E7.26 as oil prices stabilised today following rapid rises yesterday. Paddy Power's 
stocks dipped 12c to E60.21 after it saw its 2013 profits hit by an "exceptional run of punter-friendly sports results" 
last year, its results out today show. But pre-tax profits still rose to a record E141m last year, from E139.2m in 2012. 
Sporting results, including Andy Murray's win at Wimbledon and Phil Mickelson's victory at the British Open, 
negatively affected profits. Online profits rose, while UK and Irish retail and telephone profits dropped. Online drove 
the business in 2013, with total profits of E107m, up from E103.5m the previous year.Earnings in 2013 were hit by a 
E10m headwind from new product fees and taxes, currency depreciation, and the company's first full year of 
investment in Italy. Davy Stockbrokers said that, given the trading update provided by management in mid-
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease ISEQ Rises
November, the full-year results announcement contains few surprises. "The trends evidenced at that time remain in 
place: good top-line growth across the online divisions is being largely offset by a combination of rising gaming 
taxes (in Australia in 2013, in Ireland in 2014 and in the UK in 2015), recent adverse currency movements, ongoing 
investment phase losses in Italy and ongoing (and perhaps irrational) competition in the UK online market. While 
current trading has been impacted by adverse sports results year-to-date, we do not foresee material reductions to 
our earnings forecasts for 2014 at this point with an offsetting saving arising from the fact that an Irish non-retail 
turnover tax, which we had built into our forecasts from January 1st, is now unlikely to come into effect until July 1st 
at the earliest."
Load-Date: March 7, 2014
End of Document
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease ISEQ Rises
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease; ISEQ Rises
Business World (Digest)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 507 words
Highlight: The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the 
Ukraine crisis with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
Body
The ISEQ won back only some of the ground it lost in yesterday's rout on the back of fears over the Ukraine crisis 
with Total Produce and Ryanair leading.
The index was up 21.91 points to 5,091.54.
Shares in Total Produce gained 3c to E0.97 after it posted pre-tax profits that rose 12.5pc to E52.9m last year on 
the back of revenues that climbed 13pc to E3.2bn as a slew of acquisitions became revenue generating. The 
company has recommended an increase of 10pc in its final dividend to 1.66 cent per share. This together with the 
interim dividend of 0.61 cent per share brings the total 2013 dividend to 2.27 cent per share - a rise of over 9pc on 
2012. "Total Produce has recorded a strong performance in 2013 with total revenue increasing by 13.0pc to E3.2 
billion and adjusted earnings per share increasing by 10.5pc to 8.77 cent per share. The Group's growth is primarily 
driven by successful acquisitions completed in recent years including the investment in Oppenheimer in North 
America," said Carl McCann, Chairman. "We are also pleased to announce a 10pc increase in the final dividend to 
1.66 cent per share. The Group actively continues to pursue further investment opportunities and is targeting 
adjusted earnings per share for 2014 in the range of 8.4 cent to 9.4 cent per share," he added.
Ryanair's stocks gained 8c to E7.26 as oil prices stabilised today following rapid rises yesterday. Paddy Power's 
stocks dipped 12c to E60.21 after it saw its 2013 profits hit by an "exceptional run of punter-friendly sports results" 
last year, its results out today show. But pre-tax profits still rose to a record E141m last year, from E139.2m in 2012. 
Sporting results, including Andy Murray's win at Wimbledon and Phil Mickelson's victory at the British Open, 
negatively affected profits. Online profits rose, while UK and Irish retail and telephone profits dropped. Online drove 
the business in 2013, with total profits of E107m, up from E103.5m the previous year.Earnings in 2013 were hit by a 
E10m headwind from new product fees and taxes, currency depreciation, and the company's first full year of 
investment in Italy. Davy Stockbrokers said that, given the trading update provided by management in mid-
ISEQ higher as Ukraine tensions ease ISEQ Rises
November, the full-year results announcement contains few surprises. "The trends evidenced at that time remain in 
place: good top-line growth across the online divisions is being largely offset by a combination of rising gaming 
taxes (in Australia in 2013, in Ireland in 2014 and in the UK in 2015), recent adverse currency movements, ongoing 
investment phase losses in Italy and ongoing (and perhaps irrational) competition in the UK online market. While 
current trading has been impacted by adverse sports results year-to-date, we do not foresee material reductions to 
our earnings forecasts for 2014 at this point with an offsetting saving arising from the fact that an Irish non-retail 
turnover tax, which we had built into our forecasts from January 1st, is now unlikely to come into effect until July 1st 
at the earliest."
Load-Date: March 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to add extra flights on nine Stansted routes
Ryanair to add extra flights on nine Stansted routes
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday 11:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 212 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that it will add extra flights on nine Stansted routes to Bologna, Dublin, 
Lanzarote, Marrakech, Paphos, Riga, Salzburg, and Santiago & Tours, in summer 2014.
Body
These increases are in addition to Ryanair's 13 new Stansted routes to Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Brive, Bucharest, 
Comiso, Dortmund, Lisbon, Osijek, Podgorica, Prague, Rabat and Skelleftea, which will start in April, and extra 
flights on its Berlin, Bremen, Eindhoven, Knock and Milan routes. In 2014 at Stansted, Ryanair will deliver: extra 
flights & improved schedules on 26 routes including Bologna, Dublin, Lanzarote, Marrakech, Paphos, Riga, 
Salzburg, Santiago & Tours; 127 Stansted routes in total; over 1,300,000 extra passengers; and over 1,300 jobs 
sustained at Stansted Airport. Ryanair's Maria Macken said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce further growth at 
Stansted this summer, with extra flights on our Bologna, Dublin, Lanzarote, Marrakech, Paphos, Riga, Salzburg, 
Santiago & Tours routes, in addition to 13 new routes to Athens, Basel, Bordeaux, Brive, Bucharest, Comiso, 
Dortmund, Lisbon, Osijek, Podgorica, Prague, Rabat and Skelleftea and more flights on 17 other routes. "2014 will 
be the first summer where customers can enjoy a small second carry-on bag, "quiet flights", allocated seats and 
use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families and 
friends planning their summer 2014 holiday."
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair opens second Belgian base at Brussels Zaventem
Ryanair opens second Belgian base at Brussels Zaventem
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 4, 2014 Tuesday 11:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 132 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has opened its second Belgian base at Brussels Zaventem with four based aircraft and 10 
new routes.
Body
In 2014, Ryanair's growth at Brussels Zaventem will deliver: 4 based aircraft; 10 routes to Alicante, Barcelona, 
Ibiza, Lisbon, Malaga, Palma, Porto, Rome, Valencia & Venice; over 1.5m passengers; over 1,500 jobs sustained; 
and over 283m saved by passengers annually. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Our 10 new 
Zaventem routes with multiple daily frequencies are ideal for business passengers or families booking their summer 
holidays and customers can also enjoy Ryanair's recent customer service enhancements including a second free 
carry-on bag, allocated seating and the use of portable electronic devices throughout their flight, with further 
improvements set to be rolled out over the coming months, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just 
low fares."
Load-Date: March 10, 2014
End of Document
Results season: what you need to know
Results season: what you need to know
Sunday Business Post
March 2, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1155 words
Body
Financial results season -- when the majority of Ireland's listed companies release their annual reports for the 
previous year -- has been a traumatic experience since the global financial meltdown in 2008.
But this year, the mood music has been overwhelmingly positive, many market observers have noted.
Companies such as Kerry Group, Kingspan and CRH have already reported healthy financial positions from 2013 -- 
and more good news is expected in the coming weeks.
But just what can Irish investors take from all of this positivity? And just how accurate is it?
**Restructuring and acquisitions**
Gerard Moore, head of Irish equity research at Investec, said he believed that ''most of the companies who have 
reported so far have reported results in line with expectations or a touch better.
And so far, he said, two main themes were emerging. ''There are plenty of companies talking about acquisitions, 
and plenty of companies talking about restructuring, he said.
On acquisitions, Moore pointed out that, ''DCC gave an update and announced they did a deal in Sweden for Qstar 
for £40 million. Smurfit Kappa didn't announce any new acquisitions, but said it would be top of their agenda for 
2014. And CRH have also been talking about making acquisitions.
Joe Gill, director of corporate broking at Goodbody Stockbrokers, agreed. ''What's evident if you look at the balance 
sheets at those companies is that they're in good shape, said Gill. Generally, the ''net debt to EBIDTA -- that is the 
ratio of corporate debt to earnings -- is healthy, which means ''they are all very well primed to finance acquisitions if 
they so choose.
''I think we're going to see material acquisitions over the next few years, said Gill.
Results season: what you need to know
Those acquisitions can happen in large part because under the blanket of the recession, many Irish companies 
have been quietly beavering away to restructure their operations and their balance sheets in preparation for the 
upturn. That ''knuckling down, as Gill describes it, has also been reflected in the willingness to take significant write-
downs on past investments.
Kerry Group, for example, last week announced it had costs of nearly EUR 240 million associated with its overall 
slimming down, as it took a hit on the disposal of some assets, wrote down the value of others, and racked up the 
costs of integrating the rest. Moore said: ''CRH has been talking about selling off 10 per cent of its net assets, the 
ones that are performing below their own requirements. Ryanair has been talking about its own commercial 
transformation to improve its customer offering. And Aer Lingus, with their results, announced a new core cost-
cutting plan, looking to take EUR 30 million out of its costs over the next three years.
Gill said it was ''a sign [that Irish companies] are facing up to the need to face-up to tough decisions.
**Stretched valuations**
But most observers, Gill included, agreed that the health of Irish listed companies needs to be set against overall 
market conditions.
The equity market has for some time now been quite buoyant, characterised by elevated share valuations in many 
companies.
''When you talk to a lot of seasoned investors they are scratching their heads looking at the kind of multiples of 
some companies. The view is that there's a lot of expectation [priced into] the market already, said Gill.
David Donnelly of Cantor Fitzgerald Ireland agreed.
''That's not necessarily to say there isn't more room to go, not to say they couldn't go higher, but in terms of taking 
Kerry, it's trading on 18 times earnings for this year. Compared to its five-year average is just about 14 times, 
according to Donnelly.
''I think you need to be selective, he said, and suggested that it's a market for stock pickers. ''Because there's 
definitely opportunity in specific names. I'd still be very positive on Smurfit [for example] despite the good run they 
had last year, he said. ''There's definitely more to go because it's still trading at a discount to the rest of the sector 
and its peers.
With both Kerry and Glanbia, some of the good performance of management has, many think, already been priced 
in.
''I'd like to see a bit of a pullback in Kerry before I got involved, Donnelly said, while the market was ''seeing 
something similar with Glanbia which had a similarly decent run last year [but] has lagged a little bit this year.
Cantor has the same view on CRH, Donnelly said. ''Basically we feel that the results that came out the other day, 
most of it is priced in [already], and the firm's official line is that ''we have a hold rating and we're expecting progress 
as profits slowly recover.
**Domestic versus international**
Among listed Irish companies, there's a rough divide between the companies that derive the majority of their 
revenue from Ireland and the ones which are more internationally focused.
Cantor Fitzgerald Ireland has an Irish basket of stocks that it thinks will take advantage of the Irish rebound, made 
up of companies which generate the bulk of their revenue in Ireland.
It includes CPL, FBD, Independent News & Media, Bank of Ireland, and Irish Continental Group. However, 
according to Donnelly, it's the internationally-focused companies that are so far performing a little better.
Results season: what you need to know
''[The likes of] Smurfit, CRH or Kerry seem to be beating estimates or coming in in-line [with estimates], he said.
Gill agreed that results in the last week or two had shown that a number of Irish companies were optimistic for 
2014, which he said was in large part due to their exposure to developed economies in both Europe and the US.
''From a macro point of view, their exposures to developed economies has continued into the new year, and a lot of 
Irish corporates are exposed to that, so you can see hints in their statements about their benefit from that, he said.
**Emerging markets**
That's not to say that the internationally-focused firms are without risk, since many are professing a desire to break 
into emerging markets which have been volatile lately.
So far, ''exposure to developing and emerging markets is relatively low, said Gill, which meant the current upheaval 
in emerging markets had not been a major threat to Irish-listed companies' earnings, ''but they are talking about 
getting bigger in those markets.
The big worry is about the volatility in the markets they are hoping to break into in the coming years, Gill pointed 
out.
For Donnelly, his firm's equity focus has shifted to Germany.
''Ireland had a great run and it's a very en vogue country and market, given the popularity of the story of Ireland with 
coming out of the bailout and being able to issue bonds, but valuations are a bit stretched, he said.
As Moore pointed out: ''We're about half way through [the financial reporting season] and most people are talking 
about seeing signs of recovery.
But, he added: ''We've still got big companies like Bank of Ireland, Paddy Power, C&C, Grafton Group and ICG still 
to come.
Load-Date: March 2, 2014
End of Document
O'Leary: no prospect of air shutdown
O'Leary: no prospect of air shutdown
Sunday Business Post
March 2, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 261 words
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary, who recently announced his intentions to tone down his aggressive image, has said 
that bosses at Aer Lingus should tell unions to ''go fuck yourselves over threats of strike action at the airport.
Speaking at a hotel industry conference last week, O'Leary said there was ''no prospect that workers would strike, 
as planned, at the three main airports on March 14 next, because talks would avert the action.
''It is the government that have appointed the board of Aer Lingus and the DAA, and they are mandated to go into 
talks and more talks to buy them off, he said.
Siptu has issued notice to the Dublin Airport Authority (DAA) and Aer Lingus that its ground staff and some cabin 
crew -- based at Dublin, Shannon and Cork airports -- will hold a four hour work stoppage from 5am to 9am, on the 
Friday before a busy St Patrick's bank holiday weekend.
Talks between unions and the management of both companies broke down last week over a joint pension fund 
deficit of EUR 780 million, into which the DAA and Aer Lingus had offered to put around EUR 200 million, in line 
with a recommendation from the scheme's independent trustees.
O'Leary said he had ''some sympathy for chief executive Christoph M  ¼ller and senior management at Aer Lingus, 
as while they are ''trying to manage a company their board tells them ''they must go back into talks, and more 
fucking talks.
''They should just tell the unions: Go fuck yourselves', he said.
''There's a deficit in your pensions scheme -- get over it. There's a deficit in most people's pension schemes.
Load-Date: March 2, 2014
O'Leary: no prospect of air shutdown
End of Document
CIB News: Vodafone Ireland wins Cisco Gold Partner status
CIB News: Vodafone Ireland wins Cisco Gold Partner status
Sunday Business Post
March 2, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: TECHNOLOGY
Length: 346 words
Body
Vodafone Ireland has been awarded prestigious Gold Partner' status by Cisco Systems, the highest level of 
partnership available to partners of Cisco. Vodafone becomes one of only five companies in Ireland to offer Cisco 
Gold level sales, support and services to enterprise customers as a result of this award.
Anne Sheehan, Vodafone Ireland's enterprise director, said the award recognised the work the telco has done in 
unified communications.
''When we talked to Irish businesses 80 per cent of them said that customer service was a top priority. Vodafone is 
uniquely positioned, with our experience and heavy investment in mobile, to create opportunities that will genuinely 
introduce unified communications to Irish businesses to help them get closer to their customers, said Sheehan.
''Cisco Gold Partner status recognises Vodafone Ireland's substantial investment in our capabilities over recent 
years. Leveraging Cisco's market leading solutions and our deep expertise in mobility, we are enabling our 
customers to rethink their current way of doing business, by unifying communications from the contact centre to the 
mobile road warrior, utilising video and messaging on the move from a smartphone, tablet or other mobile device.
''These are the tools and the real-time benefits that enable Irish businesses to respond to and reach their end 
customers much faster, said Sheehan.
Adam Grennan, country manager, Cisco Ireland, welcomed the announcement.
''I'm genuinely delighted that Vodafone have secured gold level certification. Together Vodafone and Cisco have a 
very strong proposition in a world that's turned mobile. The ability to communicate anytime, from any location and 
on any device in a secure way is central to both our customer's needs. After this strong start I look forward to 
strengthening the working relationship even further with the Vodafone team in the coming weeks and months, said 
Grennan.
CIB News: Vodafone Ireland wins Cisco Gold Partner status
To date, Vodafone Ireland has provided businesses such as Ryanair, Boyle Sports and Fingal County Council, with 
communications solutions utilising Cisco technology.
Load-Date: March 2, 2014
End of Document
Update: Ryanair secures highest rating for airline
Update: Ryanair secures highest rating for airline
AirFinance Journal
March 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Highlight: Ratings agency Standard and Poor's benchmarks the airline at BBB+.
Body
Low cost carrier Ryanair has secured a corporate credit rating of BBB+ from rating agency Standard and Poor's, 
making it the highest rating airline globally.
Howard Millar, chief financial officer at the airline, said: ""The successful achievement of this BBB+ rating is part of 
our plan to access the capital markets to finance the purchase of our 175 Boeing 737-800 order via both secured 
and unsecured debt offerings.
He adds: "The BBB+ rating will enable us to achieve lower cost financing to ensure that we continue to have the 
lowest costs and the lowest fares in Europe," in a written statement.
The new rating is consistent with The Airline Analyst's range of expectations.
Michael Duff, The Airline Analyst's managing director, said in a recent article on the subject: "The big question is 
whether Ryanair manages to obtain a rating in the A territory or is pulled down to the high BBB region due to 
industry risk considerations and the potential erosion of the cash buffer over time."  He added the foreign currency 
debt rating for the Republic of Ireland of BBB+ may also have been a factor in the final rating.
Citibank advised the airline throughout the ratings process.
Ryanair recently a completed a Eur70 million share buy-back programme, announced last December.
Earlier this month Airfinance Journal discussed the airline's capital markets aspirations with Millar. 
jvickers@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 24, 2014
End of Document
Update: Ryanair secures highest rating for airline
Update: Ryanair secures highest rating for airline
AirFinance Journal
March 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Highlight: Ratings agency Standard and Poor's benchmarks the airline at BBB+.
Body
Low cost carrier Ryanair has secured a corporate credit rating of BBB+ from rating agency Standard and Poor's, 
making it the highest rating airline globally.
Howard Millar, chief financial officer at the airline, said: ""The successful achievement of this BBB+ rating is part of 
our plan to access the capital markets to finance the purchase of our 175 Boeing 737-800 order via both secured 
and unsecured debt offerings.
He adds: "The BBB+ rating will enable us to achieve lower cost financing to ensure that we continue to have the 
lowest costs and the lowest fares in Europe," in a written statement.
The new rating is consistent with The Airline Analyst's range of expectations.
Michael Duff, The Airline Analyst's managing director, said in a recent article on the subject: "The big question is 
whether Ryanair manages to obtain a rating in the A territory or is pulled down to the high BBB region due to 
industry risk considerations and the potential erosion of the cash buffer over time."  He added the foreign currency 
debt rating for the Republic of Ireland of BBB+ may also have been a factor in the final rating.
Citibank advised the airline throughout the ratings process.
Ryanair recently a completed a Eur70 million share buy-back programme, announced last December.
Earlier this month Airfinance Journal discussed the airline's capital markets aspirations with Millar. 
jvickers@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 11, 2014
End of Document
CFO interview: Ryanair 's journey to the capital markets
CFO interview: Ryanair's journey to the capital markets
AirFinance Journal
March 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 1459 words
Highlight: After years of relying on ECA-backed debt Ryanair is in the process of getting rated and hopes 
eventually to issue EETCs. Yana Palagacheva speaks to Howard Millar, the carrier's chief financial officer.
Body
Ryanair is changing how it does business. For years the low-cost carrier has provoked passenger irritation with its 
no-frills service and aggressive additional charges as it reaped record profits.
Now, however, the airline is trying to shed its old image for a friendlier, more customer-centric focus.
The carrier is working on business fare and family fare offerings, as well as allocated seating. More recently it has 
also invested on improving its website.
In addition to changing its corporate strategy, Ryanair is also diversifying its financing sources. While the carrier has 
relied on export credit agency (ECA) support for the majority of its fleet financing, the revised export credit pricing 
has pushed the carrier into exploring different financing options for its aircraft.
One of the most attractive alternatives is the capital markets, and Ryanair has made it clear this is where its 
eventual funding ambition lie. Indeed, the carrier has already begun the process of gaining a credit rating. Its aim is 
to utilize the deep and liquid capital market to fund its future aircraft, potentially by issuing unsecured bonds, and 
maybe even enhanced equipment trust certificates (EETCs).
Speaking with Airfinance Journal, Howard Millar, the carrier's chief financial officer, is confident that Ryanair will 
succeed in the debt capital market space.
Diversifying financing
Ryanair has traditionally financed the majority of its fleet through the US Export-Import Bank (US Ex-Im). About 
80% of Ryanair's fleet or 240 aircraft are financed using US Ex-Im guarantees.
But under the new Aircraft Sector Understanding, which was agreed in 2011and came into effect in January 2013, 
export credit agency financing effectively became twice as expensive because of an increase in premiums.
At the same time, unsecured debt financing is now very attractively priced, which has led the carrier's board to 
choose it as the most suitable alternative financing of a portion of its fleet.
CFO interview: Ryanair 's journey to the capital markets
"In the last several years the structure of Ex-Im financing has changed "" the fees have risen. It now means that the 
capital markets are competitive with export credit financing, and that has led us to look at possibly financing 
deliveries "" the first of which start September 2014 "" in the capital markets," explains Millar.
He adds: "Unsecured debt financing also fits in our delivery programme over the next 12 to 18 months. So we will 
probably consider unsecured debt financing first and then possibly look at an EETC."
The only other structures the carrier has so far relied on are Japanese operating leases with call options (Jolco) and 
sale/leaseback. But Millar says that given the size of Ryanair's order book, neither of these structures is suitable to 
finance the bulk of the carrier's future fleet.
Millar could not give specific financing proportions of the carrier's future fleet but is confident Ex-Im financing will still 
be significant. Ryanair will also continue financing part of its fleet though sale/ leaseback and Jolco transactions.
"I expect that we will use all the three structures we have already but the idea is to broaden our percentage. So 
obviously when we've got 80% of our aircraft financed largely with ECA financing, it will take a lot of debt financing 
to produce that proportion now because we have to finance 175 aircraft," says Millar.
"But you wouldn't do all that in the capital markets either, so I think ECA financing will still be a portion of our 
financing."
Ryanair has 175 737-800 aircraft on order. The first five deliveries are scheduled for 2014, and Millar hopes to 
finance them though the capital markets.
"We are hoping to have an unsecured debt programme to finance the first deliveries in September. It is something 
we haven't done before, so it's kind of a new voyage for us, but I believe we are very well positioned."
The carrier will take a few more deliveries in 2015 but it does not really scale up until 2016 when Ryanair is to take 
50 deliveries over a period of three years. Millar is hoping that by 2015 the carrier will be in a position to issue an 
EETC.
Joining the EETC club
Only five non-US carriers "" Air France, Iberia, Emirates, British Airways and Air Canada "" have issued EETCs. 
EETCs allow airlines not only to fund numerous aircraft in one transaction, but also to prefund deliveries and even 
refinance aircraft at fair prices.
Many in the industry have long speculated that quite a few non-US airlines were likely to issue EETCs to take 
advantage of the liquidity available from US institutional investors. Millar is one of them.
"It is becoming a norm, and I think what is going to happen next year is you are going to see more international 
carriers access the US EETC market given its size, scale and debt and also relatively attractive pricing," he says.
Millar explains that once Ryanair has enough presence in the capital markets, the carrier will plan an EETC for the 
increased number of deliveries it has starting in 2015.
"Once we have an unsecured debt and we've been known in the market "" we have a track record, we have our 
ratings in place "" that will be the next step," he says.
"In 2015 we will consider an EETC. This is a much bigger and deeper market than the unsecured market, which will 
enable us to achieve the size and scale of funding we need for the year when we have 50 deliveries. It's a two-year 
sequencing event that we are engaged in."
Millar adds that major carriers such as Air Canada and British Airways have already issued EETCs, which has 
opened the market, and he is confident there will not be a lack of interest from American investors.
CFO interview: Ryanair 's journey to the capital markets
A highly rated airline
Ryanair is in the process of obtaining a credit rating and has mandated Citi to help it through the process. The 
carrier has already started negotiations with the agencies, and Millar is hopeful the process will be completed in a 
few months.
If it succeeds Ryanair will join an elite club. Only 16 airlines are rated and, of those, Southwest is the only low-cost 
carrier.
The most recent rating The Airline Analyst (TAA) gave Ryanair was AA-, based on its 12-month financials to 
September 30 2013. Only one other major airline "" Copa Holdings of Panama "" is rated as highly by TAA.
Ryanair's rating was underpinned by the low average age of its fleet, a robust earnings before interest, taxes, 
depreciation, amortization and restructuring or rent cost margin, a high fixed charge cover, extremely high liquidity 
and very low adjusted net leverage, explains Michael Duff, managing director, TAA.
But Duff warns that the rating agencies may insist on a slightly lower rating for the carrier.
"The ratings agencies may be inclined to assume that the cash mountain will not be there forever and may look at 
leverage on a gross basis. These factors, combined with concerns about industry risk, would likely result in a lower 
rating than indicated," says Duff.
Even if the ratings agencies do offer a lower rating, the airline has the chance of becoming the most highly rated 
carrier in the world. Millar is quietly confident that the agencies will provide a favourable view thanks to Ryanair's 
track record.
"We have been a public company since 1997. We are one of the largest carriers in Europe. We have a very strong 
balance sheet, we are very well managed, conservative in terms of how to manage our business, our capital. So we 
think we should be in a very strong position given the size and the scale of our business," he says.
Millar refuses to speculate about the exact rating he is expecting Ryanair to achieve, but anticipates a high rating 
from the agencies.
"Absolutely. We will be very surprised if it is not very high. We think that we have many strengths in Europe "" the 
fact that we have a significant market share, we have a long track record of profitability through all different cycles, 
be it volcanoes, 9/11, etc.
How I'd summarize it is that we are in a very strong financial position, have strength in the industry, a long track 
record "" which means that we expect to be highly rated."
One factor that may influence the eventual credit rating, according to Duff, is the sovereign rating for the Republic of 
Ireland of BBB+ (Standard amp; Poor's). Ryanair, on the other hand, can expect to argue that the majority of its 
cash flow is generated outside Ireland and a sovereign ceiling should not apply.
Duff concludes: "The big question is whether Ryanair manages to obtain a rating in the A territory or is pulled down 
to the high BBB region due to industry risk considerations and the potential erosion of the cash buffer over time."
But no matter what rating Ryanair gets, it looks as if the carrier has busy years ahead improving its business model 
and exploring new financial structures.
ypalagacheva@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 1, 2014
CFO interview: Ryanair 's journey to the capital markets
End of Document
Ryanair secures highest rating for airline
Ryanair secures highest rating for airline
AirFinance Journal
March 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ratings agency Standard and Poor's benchmarks the airline at BBB+.
Body
Low cost carrier Ryanair has secured a corporate credit rating of BBB+ from rating agency Standard and Poor's, 
making it the highest rating airline globally.
Howard Millar, chief financial officer at the airline, said: ""The successful achievement of this BBB+ rating is part of 
our plan to access the capital markets to finance the purchase of our 175 Boeing 737-800 order via both secured 
and unsecured debt offerings.
He adds: "The BBB+ rating will enable us to achieve lower cost financing to ensure that we continue to have the 
lowest costs and the lowest fares in Europe," in a written statement.
Citibank advised the airline throughout the ratings process.
Ryanair recently a completed a Eur70 million share buy-back program, announced last December.
Earlier this month Airfinance Journal discussed the airline's capital markets aspirations with Millar.
jvickers@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair secures highest rating for airline
Ryanair secures highest rating for airline
AirFinance Journal
March 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Highlight: Ratings agency Standard and Poor's benchmarks the airline at BBB+.
Body
Low cost carrier Ryanair has secured a corporate credit rating of BBB+ from rating agency Standard and Poor's, 
making it the highest rating airline globally.
Howard Millar, chief financial officer at the airline, said: ""The successful achievement of this BBB+ rating is part of 
our plan to access the capital markets to finance the purchase of our 175 Boeing 737-800 order via both secured 
and unsecured debt offerings.
He adds: "The BBB+ rating will enable us to achieve lower cost financing to ensure that we continue to have the 
lowest costs and the lowest fares in Europe," in a written statement.
Citibank advised the airline throughout the ratings process.
Ryanair recently a completed a Eur70 million share buy-back program, announced last December.
Earlier this month Airfinance Journal discussed the airline's capital markets aspirations with Millar.
jvickers@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 24, 2014
End of Document
Etihad ups stake in Aer Lingus
Etihad ups stake in Aer Lingus
AirFinance Journal
March 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 97 words
Highlight: Gulf carrier increases stake in Irish airline to 4.11%.
Body
Abu Dhabi-based carrier Etihad has upped its stake in Irish airline Aer Lingus to 4.11%, according to a statement 
from the Irish carrier.
Etihad spent approximately Eur10 million ($13.9 million) buying up shares in the open market, based on the airline's 
share price last week.
The Middle Eastern carrier bought a 2.987% stake in Aer Lingus in May 2012.
Last year UK competition authorities forced Ryanair to reduce its stake in Aer Lingus from almost 30% to just 5%.
Etihad is in negotiations about a potential stake acquisition in Italian flag carrier Alitalia.
jvickers@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 11, 2014
End of Document
Etihad ups stake in Aer Lingus
Etihad ups stake in Aer Lingus
AirFinance Journal
March 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 97 words
Highlight: Gulf carrier increases stake in Irish airline to 4.11%.
Body
Abu Dhabi-based carrier Etihad has upped its stake in Irish airline Aer Lingus to 4.11%, according to a statement 
from the Irish carrier.
Etihad spent approximately Eur10 million ($13.9 million) buying up shares in the open market, based on the airline's 
share price last week.
The Middle Eastern carrier bought a 2.987% stake in Aer Lingus in May 2012.
Last year UK competition authorities forced Ryanair to reduce its stake in Aer Lingus from almost 30% to just 5%.
Etihad is in negotiations about a potential stake acquisition in Italian flag carrier Alitalia.
jvickers@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 24, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair teams with PayPal for flight purchases
Ryanair teams with PayPal for flight purchases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 1, 2014 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: FINANCIAL SERVICES
Length: 12 words
Highlight: The Irish Independent has reported that PayPal is collaborating with Ryanair to make purchases of 
plane tickets easier using PayPal's mobile payments software.
Body
The exact details of the collaboration have not yet been divulged, however.
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
IAG says will double profits by 2015 IAG Profits
IAG says will double profits by 2015; IAG Profits
Business World (Digest)
February 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 377 words
Highlight: British Airways-owner International Airlines Group said it was on track to more than double profit over 
the next two years, as a turnaround at its Iberia unit gains traction and it drives down costs across its business.
Body
British Airways-owner International Airlines Group said it was on track to more than double profit over the next two 
years, as a turnaround at its Iberia unit gains traction and it drives down costs across its business.
IAG swung to a profit last year, boosted by a strong performance at British Airways and on revenue from newly 
acquired low-cost carrier Vueling, which competes with Ryanair and easyJet in European short-haul.
Operating profit was 770 million euros before exceptional items last year, beating an analysts' consensus forecast 
of 765 million from a 23 million loss in 2012.
IAG's target, which it raised by 12.5 percent in November, is to lift operating profit to 1.8 billion euros for 2015, 
through cost cuts at BA, Iberia's recovery and Vueling growth. Shares in IAG, which have doubled over the last 
twelve months, fell 3 percent to 438 pence by 1106 GMT. "They're in line with consensus but one got the 
impression that there was an expectation that given their cost measures and the strength of North Atlantic that they 
could have beaten consensus," RBC analyst Damian Brewer said. Reconfirming its 2015 profit target on Friday, 
IAG said it expected to make steady progress this year by cutting costs. "They're still guiding to a 2015 figure of 1.8 
billion euros, so they obviously have a lot of work to do this year. In that context with the stock having doubled, and 
these numbers only being in line, you're going to get some profit taking," Cantor analyst Robin Byde said. Chief 
Executive Willie Walsh said the company was heading in the right direction to be able to reinstate its dividend. "Our 
intention is to get the business to a position where it can pay a dividend and sustain the significant capital 
expenditure programme that we have embarked on," he said. "Clearly with the progress we've made in 2013 over 
2012, and our restatement of our goal for 2015, we're certainly on track to achieve that situation," he told reporters 
on a call. Iberia, which has dragged on group earnings since the merger with BA in 2011, narrowed its operating 
loss by 185 million euros to 166 million euros in the year. "Iberia's making good progress. It's ahead of where we 
believed it would be in 2013 and is on line to be profitable in 2014," Walsh said.
IAG says will double profits by 2015 IAG Profits
Load-Date: March 3, 2014
End of Document
IAG says will double profits by 2015 IAG Profits
IAG says will double profits by 2015; IAG Profits
Business World (Digest)
February 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 377 words
Highlight: British Airways-owner International Airlines Group said it was on track to more than double profit over 
the next two years, as a turnaround at its Iberia unit gains traction and it drives down costs across its business.
Body
British Airways-owner International Airlines Group said it was on track to more than double profit over the next two 
years, as a turnaround at its Iberia unit gains traction and it drives down costs across its business.
IAG swung to a profit last year, boosted by a strong performance at British Airways and on revenue from newly 
acquired low-cost carrier Vueling, which competes with Ryanair and easyJet in European short-haul.
Operating profit was 770 million euros before exceptional items last year, beating an analysts' consensus forecast 
of 765 million from a 23 million loss in 2012.
IAG's target, which it raised by 12.5 percent in November, is to lift operating profit to 1.8 billion euros for 2015, 
through cost cuts at BA, Iberia's recovery and Vueling growth. Shares in IAG, which have doubled over the last 
twelve months, fell 3 percent to 438 pence by 1106 GMT. "They're in line with consensus but one got the 
impression that there was an expectation that given their cost measures and the strength of North Atlantic that they 
could have beaten consensus," RBC analyst Damian Brewer said. Reconfirming its 2015 profit target on Friday, 
IAG said it expected to make steady progress this year by cutting costs. "They're still guiding to a 2015 figure of 1.8 
billion euros, so they obviously have a lot of work to do this year. In that context with the stock having doubled, and 
these numbers only being in line, you're going to get some profit taking," Cantor analyst Robin Byde said. Chief 
Executive Willie Walsh said the company was heading in the right direction to be able to reinstate its dividend. "Our 
intention is to get the business to a position where it can pay a dividend and sustain the significant capital 
expenditure programme that we have embarked on," he said. "Clearly with the progress we've made in 2013 over 
2012, and our restatement of our goal for 2015, we're certainly on track to achieve that situation," he told reporters 
on a call. Iberia, which has dragged on group earnings since the merger with BA in 2011, narrowed its operating 
loss by 185 million euros to 166 million euros in the year. "Iberia's making good progress. It's ahead of where we 
believed it would be in 2013 and is on line to be profitable in 2014," Walsh said.
IAG says will double profits by 2015 IAG Profits
Load-Date: March 4, 2014
End of Document
IAG says will double profits by 2015 IAG Profits
IAG says will double profits by 2015; IAG Profits
Business World (Digest)
February 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 377 words
Highlight: British Airways-owner International Airlines Group said it was on track to more than double profit over 
the next two years, as a turnaround at its Iberia unit gains traction and it drives down costs across its business.
Body
British Airways-owner International Airlines Group said it was on track to more than double profit over the next two 
years, as a turnaround at its Iberia unit gains traction and it drives down costs across its business.
IAG swung to a profit last year, boosted by a strong performance at British Airways and on revenue from newly 
acquired low-cost carrier Vueling, which competes with Ryanair and easyJet in European short-haul.
Operating profit was 770 million euros before exceptional items last year, beating an analysts' consensus forecast 
of 765 million from a 23 million loss in 2012.
IAG's target, which it raised by 12.5 percent in November, is to lift operating profit to 1.8 billion euros for 2015, 
through cost cuts at BA, Iberia's recovery and Vueling growth. Shares in IAG, which have doubled over the last 
twelve months, fell 3 percent to 438 pence by 1106 GMT. "They're in line with consensus but one got the 
impression that there was an expectation that given their cost measures and the strength of North Atlantic that they 
could have beaten consensus," RBC analyst Damian Brewer said. Reconfirming its 2015 profit target on Friday, 
IAG said it expected to make steady progress this year by cutting costs. "They're still guiding to a 2015 figure of 1.8 
billion euros, so they obviously have a lot of work to do this year. In that context with the stock having doubled, and 
these numbers only being in line, you're going to get some profit taking," Cantor analyst Robin Byde said. Chief 
Executive Willie Walsh said the company was heading in the right direction to be able to reinstate its dividend. "Our 
intention is to get the business to a position where it can pay a dividend and sustain the significant capital 
expenditure programme that we have embarked on," he said. "Clearly with the progress we've made in 2013 over 
2012, and our restatement of our goal for 2015, we're certainly on track to achieve that situation," he told reporters 
on a call. Iberia, which has dragged on group earnings since the merger with BA in 2011, narrowed its operating 
loss by 185 million euros to 166 million euros in the year. "Iberia's making good progress. It's ahead of where we 
believed it would be in 2013 and is on line to be profitable in 2014," Walsh said.
IAG says will double profits by 2015 IAG Profits
Load-Date: February 28, 2014
End of Document
Airline Promises $10 Transatlantic Flights
Airline Promises $10 Transatlantic Flights
International Business Times News
February 28, 2014 Friday 11:30 AM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 723 words
Byline: Mark Johanson
Body
Feb 28, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 Ryanair, Europe's biggest and most profitable airline, just announced a new business model that would see the no-
frills carrier work to expand into the United States with airfare as low as $10 on select transatlantic flights.
 The airline's colorful and headline-loving chief executive, Michael O'Leary, spoke of his ambitious plans at the Irish 
Hotels Federation conference in Meath earlier this week, saying that he'd offer tickets from Europe to New York and 
Boston for just 10 euros ($13.70) and flights back starting at only $10 (7.30 euros).
 If it sounds way too good to be true, keep in mind that a $10 fare comes with a big asterisks that will likely make 
the price look about 25 percent heftier when all is said and done. O'Leary himself is the first to admit that he'll 
charge for everything from booking to baggage and seat selection.
 'We can make money on 99 cent fares in Europe,' he enthused at the hotels conference, according to the Irish 
Independent. 'Not every seat will be 10-euro of course, there will also need to be a very high number of business or 
premium seats.'
 O'Leary has said in the past that the '15 percent of the public who will pay for the frills' help subsidize ultra-low 
fares for the rest of the passengers.
 The ever outspoken CEO anticipates flights between up to 14 major European cities and as many as 14 U.S. 
destinations. But don't expect to see the bargain-basement tickets advertised anytime soon.
 Ryanair won't commence flights to the U.S. until it secures a fleet of between 30 and 50 long-haul aircraft, O'Leary 
said. Intense competition for new aircraft orders fueled by the rapidly expanding (and state-backed) Gulf carriers 
means it could take up to five years before his dream becomes a reality.
 Currently, the lowest one-way fares for flights between London and New York hover around $250 if booked months 
in advance. However, analysts say the Ryanair plan could massively undercut even the cheapest deals now on 
sale.
 'If Ryanair were to enter the North Atlantic market, they could single-handedly control pricing. They would be the 
undisputed pricing leader,' Henry Harteveldt, an airline analyst with Hudson Crossing, explained to International 
Business Times. 'If they were to offer a business class product, as O'Leary has mentioned, they would certainly 
pose a major challenge to established airlines.'
 Ryainair, like Spirit Airlines in the U.S., is famous for its unbundled fare structure and ultra-low prices. It often flies 
to smaller, cheaper airports like London Stansted, has a track record of gimmicky fares offset by wild fees and has 
mulled charges for things as basic as using the toilet.
Airline Promises $10 Transatlantic Flights
 Despite its questionable customer service practices and punitive fees, Harteveldt said Ryanair could still attract a 
considerable consumer base for transatlantic flights. 'It isn't like standard economy is that great when you fly on any 
of the existing airlines running between the U.K. and U.S., where legroom and amenities are both minimal. Certainly 
there is in-flight entertainment, but there are not many creature comforts.'
 Harteveldt said it would be interesting to see the product offering, as current flights do not have reclining seats or 
window shades. Also, which airports would Ryanair choose to fly to: the major airports or regional alternatives like 
Providence instead of Boston Logan and Islip instead of New York JFK?
 O'Leary has talked about entering the long-haul market for years, and Harteveldt cautioned that it's best not to 
make too much of it until the airline makes an official announcement. Long-haul operations, after all, are extremely 
complex and very dissimilar from inter-European flying, offering a different level of productivity.
 Moreover, any shift away from Ryanair's core European strategy would likely pave the way for a separate division 
charged with operating the long-haul flights, as has been the case for similar budget carriers like AirAsia and 
Jetstar. Ryanair would also need to reconfigure its ticketing systems away from the current point-to-point structure 
to be a credible competitor.
 Nevertheless, Harteveldt said if Ryanair does make its U.S.-to-Europe flights work one day, it would be 'a credible 
threat to any airline it competes with.'
Load-Date: February 28, 2014
End of Document
Thursday Papers: US senators rebuff Credit Suisse stance
Thursday Papers: US senators rebuff Credit Suisse stance
Citywire
February 27, 2014 Thursday 2:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 1289 words
Body
Top stories Financial Times: Four Credit Suisse executives were subjected to three and a half hours of questioning 
on Wednesday by US senators, who also criticised the Swiss government and the Department of Justice, during a 
testy hearing in Washington to investigate allegations the bank helped 22,000 US clients avoid tax. Financial Times: 
Russian President Putin ordered a surprise drill by forces in western Russia, including areas bordering Ukraine 
while US made clear that any sign of intervention in Ukraine would not be acceptable to Washington. Daily Mail: 
Small energy firms are to be given new powers to compete with the Big Six suppliers in a move that could see 
households benefit from more competitive tariffs. Financial Times: Shares in online white goods seller AO.com 
surged as much as 44% on their London debut on Wednesday, fuelling concerns over the prospects of a fresh 
breakout of dotcom fever. Financial Times: Tesla Motors, the US electric car manufacturer, announced plans to sell 
at least $1.6 billion in convertible senior notes to raise funds for a vast new battery factory as its shares hit a record 
high on Wednesday. 
Financial Times: The EU's top competition authority on Wednesday served a tough complaint against Telefnica's 
8.6 billion offer for E-Plus, KPN's German mobile unit, signalling that the deal would be blocked without big asset 
sales and concessions. Business and economics Financial Times: Political pressure is growing on George Osborne 
to rein in pay at Royal Bank of Scotland as the taxpayer-controlled bank prepares to grant more than £500 million of 
bonuses while reporting an annual loss of as much as £8 billion and sacking thousands of staff. Financial Times: 
European Commission has accepted Visa Europe's antitrust settlement offer to cap interbank fees for handling 
transactions, which reduces its cross-border and credit card charges by up to 60%. Financial Times: Scores of 
foreign banks will meet at the Bank of England on Thursday to discuss proposals that could force some companies 
to convert their UK retail operations into full subsidiaries or exit the market. Financial Times: Elliott Management, 
the New York hedge fund, on Wednesday revealed an 11% stake in F&C, the UK asset manager that was the 
subject of a takeover offer last month. The Daily Telegraph: Ryanair to fly passengers to US for under £10. The 
Independent: Japanese and US authorities are investigating the abrupt suspension of one of the world's biggest 
Bitcoin marketplaces - Mt Gox. The Independent: Aeroplane manufacturer Airbus has hailed its transition to a 
normal company after axing a damagingly burdensome political ownership structure. The Guardian: Qantas has 
announced it will cut 5,000 full-time jobs, extend wage freezes and scrap under-performing flight routes as part of a 
plan to reduce costs by $2 billion over three years. Daily Mail: Figures from the Office for National Statistics showed 
gross domestic product grew by 0.7% in the final three months of last year. Financial Times: Hays unveiled plans to 
hire up to 200 consultants in its UK and Ireland business over the next year in its biggest recruitment drive since 
2007, as it posted a jump in profits in the first half of the year. Financial Times: Henderson Global Investors 
announced record profits on Wednesday as the laggard among UK listed investment groups turned star performer. 
Thursday Papers: US senators rebuff Credit Suisse stance
Financial Times: Stemcor, one of the world's largest steel traders, which is majority-owned by the Oppenheimer 
family will restructure its $1.3 billion debt after a high court judge overruled an objection from one of its creditors. 
Financial Times: Repsol's board of directors on late Tuesday voted unanimously to accept a $5 billion settlement 
offer from the government of Argentina. Financial Times: Repsol's fourth-quarter earnings released on Wednesday 
were broadly in line with analysts' expectations; adjusted quarterly profits dropped almost 20% compared with the 
previous year, to 252 million. Financial Times: Anheuser-Busch InBev, the world's largest brewer by sales, issued a 
bullish outlook for 2014 on Wednesday as it expects the football World Cup in Brazil, solid beer consumption in 
China and a stronger Mexican economy to boost its business globally. Financial Times: Aluminium producer Rusal 
told a court that it could lose at the very least tens of millions of pounds under new regulations from the London 
Metal Exchange that it has called a breach of its human rights. Financial Times: Three former employees of 
Barclays - Jonathan Mathew, Peter Johnson and Stylianos Contogoulas - faced criminal charges in court on 
Wednesday as a result of the UK Serious Fraud Office's probe into alleged manipulation of the London Interbank 
Offered Rate. Financial Times: FXCM, a US forex trading group, has been hit with a penalty for failing to pass on 
profits to clients as regulators crack down on retail foreign exchange markets. Financial Times: Investors in Allianz 
are calling on the insurer to take action amid concerns over the health of its US fund business Pimco, following 
sweeping changes at the top of its management team. Financial Times: Three of Britain's biggest building societies 
lent a combined £11 billion to homeowners last year, 50% more than in 2012. Financial Times: Investors and 
analysts have attacked Tesco's fresh attempts to turn round its UK business, sending the shares down as much as 
5%. Financial Times: Greggs' pre-tax profit sank 18.9% in 2013, as tough trading conditions and one-off costs 
resulting from a major strategic review weighed on the UK's biggest bakery retailer. Financial Times: Taylor 
Wimpey shares fell on Wednesday after a plan to return cash to shareholders left investors underwhelmed, 
according to analysts. Financial Times: Shares in Weir Group jumped to a record high after the FTSE 100 
engineering company forecast a return to underlying growth in 2014 following a tough year. Financial Times: The 
7.3 billion UK loan portfolio of Ireland's Anglo Irish Bank was sold on Tuesday to a group of mainly US investors in 
the biggest single transaction involving the bank's assets since it collapsed in 2009. Financial Times: Abercrombie 
& Fitch rallied 9% after the company's fourth-quarter profit topped expectations and the retailer said it would 
accelerate a share buyback programme. Share tips, comment and bids The Daily Express: Co-operative Group 
yesterday continued the revitalisation of its business by lining up the sale of its agricultural division and reviewing 
the future of hundreds of its chemist stores. Financial Times: RSA is finalising plans to shore up its balance sheet 
by as much as £1.5 billion with one of the biggest equity raisings by a UK insurer. Financial Times: US buyout 
house Blackstone is nearing agreement to buy a minority stake in Italian luxury group Versace. The Daily 
Telegraph: Royal Bank of Scotland could raise more than £1 billion after announcing the sale of its remaining 
28.2% holding in Direct Line. The Daily Telegraph: Rare books dealer Scholium Group reveals IPO plans. Financial 
Times: Horizon Discovery plans to raise £25 million on the Alternative Investment Market, on top of the £200 million 
being targeted by Circassia, a specialist in allergy drugs, which announced the biggest UK biotech flotation for 
years this month. Financial Times (Lex): AB InBev: another round? The brewer struggles to expand faster than 
world growth. Financial Times (Lex): Repsol: Emerging? Having settled with Argentina, the major must target higher 
returns. The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Quantitative easing may have hampered growth, says Andrew Sentance. 
Financial Times (Lombard): The Co-op's retreat from farms is just the first skirmish.
Load-Date: February 27, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to add extra flights on four Dublin routes
Ryanair to add extra flights on four Dublin routes
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 27, 2014 Thursday 11:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 234 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that it will add extra flights on four Dublin routes to Barcelona, Faro, Nice 
and Paris Beauvais in summer 2014.
Body
These increases are in addition to Ryanair's 9 new Dublin routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, Bucharest, Chania, 
Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and Prague, which will start in April, and extra flights on its Birmingham, Bristol, 
Edinburgh, London Stansted, Madrid and Manchester routes. This growth is in direct response to the Government's 
decision to scrap the travel tax from April this year and will result in over 700,000 extra passengers at Dublin Airport 
this year, sustaining over 700 additional "on site" jobs. 
In 2014 at Dublin, Ryanair will deliver: extra flights & improved schedules on 10 routes including Barcelona, Faro, 
Nice & Paris Beauvais; 9 new routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh & 
Prague; 85 Dublin routes in total; and 8.25m passengers in total. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair is pleased to 
announce further growth at Dublin this summer, with extra flights on our Barcelona, Faro, Nice and Paris Beauvais 
routes, in addition to 9 new routes to Almeria, Bari, Basel, Bucharest, Chania, Comiso, Lisbon, Marrakesh and 
Prague and more flights on 6 other routes. "2014 will be the first summer where customers can enjoy a small 
second carry-on bag, "quiet flights", allocated seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their 
flight, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families and friends planning their summer 2014 holiday."
Load-Date: March 5, 2014
End of Document
Bonderman's TPG eyes future flotation to join buyout rivals
Bonderman's TPG eyes future flotation to join buyout rivals
City A.M.
February 26, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 143 words
Byline: MICHAEL BOW
Body
THE CHAIRMAN of budget airline Ryanair and private equity guru David Bonderman yesterday said he was 
"contemplating" floating his firm TPG Capital.
Bonderman, speaking at private equity conference Super Return in Berlin yesterday, said TPG would join the public 
markets at some point in the future.
"At the end of the day, everybody will go public," he said. "That will happen in our industry as well. For ourselves, 
'contemplating' is the right word. We're thinking about it, but not too hard."
TPG Capital, co-founded by Bonderman in 1992, is one of the few US private equity titans not to seek a public 
listing.
Steve Schwarzman's Blackstone set the scene with its flotation in 2007, followed by rivals KKR and Carlyle. TPG 
Capital manages about $55bn (£32.9bn) of investor money, and famously raised a mega $19bn buyout fund in 
2008, one of the biggest ever.
Graphic
 
Financial guru David Bonderman founded Texas Pacific Group (TPG) in 1992
Bonderman's TPG eyes future flotation to join buyout rivals
Load-Date: February 26, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus eyes M&A in Europe with its cash pile TRAVEL & LEISURE
Aer Lingus eyes M&A in Europe with its cash pile; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
February 25, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 14
Length: 262 words
Byline: Vincent Boland
Body
Aer Lingus could use its EUR420m of net cash to pursue merger and acquisition opportunities in the European 
airline sector, according to the Irish airline's chief executive.
Christoph Mueller, who became boss of Aer Lingus in 2009 and has overseen a significant cost-cutting and 
turnround strategy, said M&A was the "most favourable" option from a management perspective for using its cash 
pile, which grew 11 per cent in 2013.
Aer Lingus was not talking to any prospective partners at this stage, he said. Analysts point out that the airline's 
cash is one reason why Ryanair bought a 29 per cent stake, which is the subject of an investigation by the UK 
Competition Commission .
Mr Mueller said: "We see ourselves not only as a target, but as an active participant in the consolidation of the 
European airline sector, which will continue."
If no acquisition were made - the airline has nearly EUR900m of gross cash - the cash would be returned to 
shareholders.
Mr Mueller was speaking after Aer Lingus reported an operating profit for 2013 of EUR61m, slightly ahead of 
forecasts. Total revenue was up 2.3 per cent to EUR1.4bn, while revenue from long-haul grew 11 per cent and 
Aer Lingus eyes M&A in Europe with its cash pile TRAVEL & LEISURE
passenger numbers rose 12 per cent, compared with a 3.3 per cent fall in short-haul revenue and a slight fall in 
short-haul passenger numbers.
Mr Mueller said Aer Lingus wanted to use Dublin as a hub to attract more transatlantic passengers as it seeks to 
boost long-haul services to the US. He also unveiled a new phase of the turnround, targeting a further EUR3 0m of 
cost reductions.
 Vincent Boland
Load-Date: February 24, 2014
End of Document
Way open for State aid for Irish airport Airport Aid
Way open for State aid for Irish airport; Airport Aid
Business World (Digest)
February 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 336 words
Highlight: Struggling regional airports, such as the now closed Galway Airport, could now qualify for State aid after 
the EU Commission today adopted new guidelines on how Governments can prop up failing airports.
Body
Struggling regional airports, such as the now closed Galway Airport, could now qualify for State aid after the EU 
Commission today adopted new guidelines on how Governments can prop up failing airports.
State aid for investment in airport infrastructure is allowed if there is a genuine transport need and the public 
support is necessary to ensure the accessibility of a region. The new guidelines define maximum permissible aid 
intensities depending on the size of an airport, in order to ensure the right mix between public and private 
investment. The possibilities to grant aid are therefore higher for smaller airports than for larger ones, the EU 
Commission said this morning.
Operating aid to regional airports (with less than 3 million passengers a year) will be allowed for a transitional period 
of 10 years under certain conditions, in order to give airports time to adjust their business model. To receive 
operating aid, airports need to work out a business plan paving the way towards full coverage of operating costs at 
the end of the transitional period. As under the current market conditions, airports with an annual passenger traffic 
of below 700 000 may face increased difficulties in achieving full cost coverage during the transitional period, the 
guidelines include a special regime for those airports, with higher aid intensities and a reassessment of the situation 
after 5 years.
Start-up aid to airlines to launch a new air route is permitted provided it remains limited in time. The compatibility 
conditions for start-up aid to airlines have been streamlined and adapted to recent market developments. Europe's 
biggest airline, Ryanair, today welcomed the new guidelines. "All of Ryanair's arrangements with airports around 
Europe comply with the Market Economy Investor Principle (MEIP). The new State aid Guidelines reinstate the 
MEIP at the heart of the test for whether State aid exists in the arrangements between airports and airlines. Ryanair 
welcomes this clarification," a statement said.
Way open for State aid for Irish airport Airport Aid
Load-Date: February 21, 2014
End of Document
Way open for State aid for Irish airport Airport Aid
Way open for State aid for Irish airport; Airport Aid
Business World (Digest)
February 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 336 words
Highlight: Struggling regional airports, such as the now closed Galway Airport, could now qualify for State aid after 
the EU Commission today adopted new guidelines on how Governments can prop up failing airports.
Body
Struggling regional airports, such as the now closed Galway Airport, could now qualify for State aid after the EU 
Commission today adopted new guidelines on how Governments can prop up failing airports.
State aid for investment in airport infrastructure is allowed if there is a genuine transport need and the public 
support is necessary to ensure the accessibility of a region. The new guidelines define maximum permissible aid 
intensities depending on the size of an airport, in order to ensure the right mix between public and private 
investment. The possibilities to grant aid are therefore higher for smaller airports than for larger ones, the EU 
Commission said this morning.
Operating aid to regional airports (with less than 3 million passengers a year) will be allowed for a transitional period 
of 10 years under certain conditions, in order to give airports time to adjust their business model. To receive 
operating aid, airports need to work out a business plan paving the way towards full coverage of operating costs at 
the end of the transitional period. As under the current market conditions, airports with an annual passenger traffic 
of below 700 000 may face increased difficulties in achieving full cost coverage during the transitional period, the 
guidelines include a special regime for those airports, with higher aid intensities and a reassessment of the situation 
after 5 years.
Start-up aid to airlines to launch a new air route is permitted provided it remains limited in time. The compatibility 
conditions for start-up aid to airlines have been streamlined and adapted to recent market developments. Europe's 
biggest airline, Ryanair, today welcomed the new guidelines. "All of Ryanair's arrangements with airports around 
Europe comply with the Market Economy Investor Principle (MEIP). The new State aid Guidelines reinstate the 
MEIP at the heart of the test for whether State aid exists in the arrangements between airports and airlines. Ryanair 
welcomes this clarification," a statement said.
Way open for State aid for Irish airport Airport Aid
Load-Date: February 20, 2014
End of Document
Way open for State aid for Irish airport Airport Aid
Way open for State aid for Irish airport; Airport Aid
Business World (Digest)
February 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 336 words
Highlight: Struggling regional airports, such as the now closed Galway Airport, could now qualify for State aid after 
the EU Commission today adopted new guidelines on how Governments can prop up failing airports.
Body
Struggling regional airports, such as the now closed Galway Airport, could now qualify for State aid after the EU 
Commission today adopted new guidelines on how Governments can prop up failing airports.
State aid for investment in airport infrastructure is allowed if there is a genuine transport need and the public 
support is necessary to ensure the accessibility of a region. The new guidelines define maximum permissible aid 
intensities depending on the size of an airport, in order to ensure the right mix between public and private 
investment. The possibilities to grant aid are therefore higher for smaller airports than for larger ones, the EU 
Commission said this morning.
Operating aid to regional airports (with less than 3 million passengers a year) will be allowed for a transitional period 
of 10 years under certain conditions, in order to give airports time to adjust their business model. To receive 
operating aid, airports need to work out a business plan paving the way towards full coverage of operating costs at 
the end of the transitional period. As under the current market conditions, airports with an annual passenger traffic 
of below 700 000 may face increased difficulties in achieving full cost coverage during the transitional period, the 
guidelines include a special regime for those airports, with higher aid intensities and a reassessment of the situation 
after 5 years.
Start-up aid to airlines to launch a new air route is permitted provided it remains limited in time. The compatibility 
conditions for start-up aid to airlines have been streamlined and adapted to recent market developments. Europe's 
biggest airline, Ryanair, today welcomed the new guidelines. "All of Ryanair's arrangements with airports around 
Europe comply with the Market Economy Investor Principle (MEIP). The new State aid Guidelines reinstate the 
MEIP at the heart of the test for whether State aid exists in the arrangements between airports and airlines. Ryanair 
welcomes this clarification," a statement said.
Way open for State aid for Irish airport Airport Aid
Load-Date: February 25, 2014
End of Document
