Ryanair warns risk ‘rising’ of more delays to Boeing 737 Max deliveries
Ryanair warns risk ‘rising’ of more delays to Boeing 737 Max deliveries
 
FT.com
November 4, 2019 Monday 7:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 614 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin and Myles McCormick in London
Body
Ryanair has said the risk of more delays to the delivery of new Boeing 737 Max aircraft was rising, warning that it 
might not receive any of the new aircraft it hopes to deploy before the peak summer season next year. 
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, said more delays in the delivery of the new planes, billed as a cost-cutting “game-
changer” for its fuel efficiency but which had been grounded after two fatal crashes, could hit the Irish airline’s 
forecast for passenger traffic next year. 
“We have already reduced our passenger growth expectation next year from 7 to 3 per cent, we expect to grow 
from about 153m to 157m passengers. We may have to cut that again,” he said. 
Mr O’Leary was speaking as Ryanair said the outlook for the remainder of its current fiscal year was “cautious” after 
lower fares and higher fuel costs left profits unchanged in the first half. 
However, investors brushed off concern about the timetable for the Max to send shares in Ryanair up 8 per cent in 
early afternoon trading. 
“What came out from the conference call [with the company] was the view that if capacity came out lower next 
summer then ticket pricing will be stronger,” said Mark Simpson, analyst with Goodbody in Dublin. 
Ryanair also expects ancillary revenues will grow ahead of traffic growth in the full year. An 11 per cent rise in 
revenues to €5.39bn in the first half included a 28 per cent increase in ancillary sales, everything bar the ticket, to 
€1.65bn. 
Ryanair warns risk ‘rising’ of more delays to Boeing 737 Max deliveries
Overall, pre-tax profit for the six months to the end of September was flat at €1.26bn, a trading period that includes 
the peak summer season. 
The carrier was originally scheduled to take delivery of almost 60 planes by next summer but warned in July that it 
expected only 30. Mr O’Leary now expects to receive 20 at best, but possibly none, after he cautioned that the 
aircraft was now unlikely to return to service in the US until after Christmas. 
“There is a risk that those aircraft deliveries might run later into next year,” he said. 
“The reality is we will have very few Max aircraft — or not sufficient Max aircraft in the fleet in summer of 2020. 
Whether that’s 20 or 30 at this stage out of a core fleet of nearly 500 aircraft, it’s going to have not much impact [on 
costs].” 
The airline said it expected “modest increases in fares over the winter” as it narrowed full-year after-tax profit 
guidance to a new range of €800m to €900m, saying traffic for the period was now forecast to rise 8 per cent to 
153m. Ryanair previously said profit after tax would be a range of €750m to €950m. 
The lack of new Max aircraft, which are expected to boost passenger numbers while lowering fuel consumption, 
was one factor weighing on costs as Ryanair had to pay more to maintain older planes that remain in its fleet
Ex-fuel costs rose 2 per cent overall, mainly because of higher pilot pay and higher than expected crew ratios. Mr 
O’Leary noted that pilot resignations slowed to almost zero, saying the failures of Thomas Cook and Slovenia’s 
Adria Airways had stopped crew from leaving. 
The airline said in July that it will axe 900 jobs after cutting flights next summer as a result of the Max grounding. 
“We will have pilot and cabin crew redundancies this winter,” Mr O’Leary said. 
With the UK’s scheduled departure from the EU pushed back to a new January 31 deadline after the December 
general election, the airline said the forecast remains sensitive to any uncertainties such as a “no-deal” Brexit. 
Daily newsletter
Are you interested in the latest company news? Every morning our City reporter Cat Rutter Pooley covers the 
biggest business stories and delivers them straight to your inbox.
 Sign up here with one click
Load-Date: November 7, 2019
End of Document
Opening Quote: Ryanair warns of turbulence ahead
Opening Quote: Ryanair warns of turbulence ahead
 
FT.com
November 4, 2019 Monday 8:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 929 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
A distinctly down-to-earth update from Ryanair this morning. The budget airline says it is "trying to avoid the 
unreliable optimism of some competitors". It has narrowed the window for full-year profit growth. Whereas at its 
quarterly results it estimated profit after tax would be between €750m and €950m, now it reckons the figure will be 
between €800m and €900m. Last year post-tax profits were €1.02bn. 
Ryanair has been hit by the delayed arrival of the Boeing 737 Max planes, which promised increased fuel efficiency 
and so lower costs. Back in July, Ryanair  cut its estimates for growth over the 2020 summer season as likely 
delivery dates for the planes became later and later. At that time it expected it might receive 30 planes before the 
summer; now the airline reckons it will get more like 20. 
Airlines have been under pressure for some time now from overcapacity, fuel prices and competition on fares. 
Ryanair has a characteristic solution to the latter: charge passengers for as many add-ons as you can. Fares fell 5 
per cent in the six months to September, while ancillary revenues were up 16 per cent, leaving revenue per 
passenger 1 per cent higher. That should get better still through the rest of the year: full-year revenue per 
passenger should increase by 2-3 per cent. Overall in the first half of the year, profit after tax was €1.15bn, flat on 
last year, while revenues were 11 per cent higher as the number of passengers climbed.
Briefly
Opening Quote: Ryanair warns of turbulence ahead
The nightmare before Christmas. KPMG's latest cost-cutting measure will be to cut a tenth of its UK partners before 
the festive break, our accountancy correspondent  reports. Around 45 partners leave every year anyway, either out 
of choice or because they're pushed into retirement. But this cull of around 65 partners is an unusual active step 
taken during the first few weeks of the firm's financial year as it battles to emerge from a reputational crisis. Twenty-
five partners escape the chop, however: when a list of who would be let go was first drawn up by KPMG's chief 
operating officer, it had 90 names on it. 
Woodford Patient Capital Trust has been forced into a yet another writedown. Link Fund Solutions, the fund's 
corporate director, is writing down the value of WPCT's stake in Industrial Heat, a cold fusion company that has 
been one of its most controversial holdings. The writedown — the  second  on that particular holding in three 
months — comes in the wake of Neil Woodford's resignation as manager.  Schroders' appointment as manager 
can't come soon enough for investors. 
In other airline news, IAG has  struck a deal  to buy Spanish airline Air Europa from Globalia for €1bn in cash. IAG, 
which owns both British Airways and Iberia, said the deal would transform its Madrid hub into a rival to 
Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Heathrow and Paris CDG and strengthen its position in Europe-LatAm and Caribbean 
routes.
Finally, Mothercare's UK business will go into administration today, though the listed company will still carry on 
trading. Mothercare says the UK retail operations of the group, which include 79 stores, can't return to a level of 
sustainable profitability as they are, and are not attractive enough for a third party partner to take on at arms length.
Job moves
Gambling group GVC has appointed retail veteran JM Barry Gibson as its new chairman. Currently, Gibson is 
chair of FTSE 250 group Homeserve. He will replace long-serving chairman Lee Feldman in February.
Beyond the Square Mile
McDonald’s  has dumped its chief executive Steve Easterbrook after he engaged in a relationship with a 
colleague. Mr Easterbrook, a British accountant  who has been credited with doubling the company’s share price 
since becoming chief executive in March 2015, had demonstrated "poor judgement" in engaging in the consensual 
relationship with another McDonald’s employee and had "violated" company policy, it said in a statement. The 
outgoing CEO will be replaced by Chris Kempczinski, previously president of McDonald’s US business.
The launch of the initial public offering process for Saudi Aramco in Dhahran on Sunday was marked by a  hard 
sell to Saudis who might be keen to have a slice of a national champion as well as foreign investors who are more 
sceptical about how Riyadh values the state energy company. 
Regulators are pressing Deutsche Bank’s Christian Sewing to  give up his dual role as chief executive and 
investment bank head because of fears his twin responsibilities could undermine the group’s radical restructuring. 
The European Central Bank and German regulator BaFin warn there is a potential conflict of interest between the 
two roles and want them to be separated in the next year or two, according to three people familiar with internal 
discussions.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Andrew Hill
Anecdotes and data, like Deloitte's  latest survey of millennials and Generation Z, suggest young staff have similar 
aspirations to those of their counterparts of 15 or even 30 years ago. In other words, the job-hopping caricature — 
and indeed, much else about generational stereotyping —  does not stand up to scrutiny.
Rana Foroohar
Opening Quote: Ryanair warns of turbulence ahead
It has been a long time coming but  the tide has finally turned against Big Tech. They have moved from being 
scrappy, garage-based innovators to surveillance capitalists who profit from personal data and have the power to 
swing elections and squash even large competitors.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: November 4, 2019
End of Document
British Airways group to buy Air Europa for €1bn
British Airways group to buy Air Europa for €1bn
 
FT.com
November 4, 2019 Monday 11:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 519 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
 International Airlines Group, the parent company of British Airways and Spain’s Iberia, has agreed to buy Air 
Europa for €1bn, as it seeks to open up the South American transatlantic market and turn Madrid into Europe’s next 
hub airport. 
The acquisition drew immediate fire from Michael O’Leary, Ryanair chief executive, who said: “I think it’s a good 
deal for IAG, for [its chief executive] Willie Walsh. I think it’s a bad deal from a competition point of view.” 
IAG said in a statement to the stock exchange on Monday that it had agreed a cash deal for the Spanish airline, 
which offers domestic and international flights to 69 destinations with its fleet of 66 aircraft, including long-haul 
routes to the Americas. 
The London-based group is betting the deal will establish Madrid as one of Europe’s premier airports, able to rival 
Amsterdam, Frankfurt, London Heathrow and Paris. It would also open up new routes to Latin America and the 
Caribbean market, and give IAG a 26 per cent share in the Europe to Latin American market, up from 19 per cent.
On a Ryanair conference call with analysts on Monday, Mr O’Leary said: “We will certainly be looking for the 
competition authorities to require some competition divestments, particularly in the area of Europa’s short-haul 
presence on some of the Spanish domestics [routes] and the European short-haul but otherwise we would certainly 
be supportive of that type of consolidation.” 
British Airways group to buy Air Europa for €1bn
The acquisition comes after IAG was thwarted in a previous attempt to spread its wings into South America when 
the Chilean Supreme Court this year struck down a proposed joint venture with American Airlines and Chile-
headquartered Latam.
“IAG needed an avenue to strengthening Latin America after the Latam joint venture ran into problems,” analysts at 
Bernstein said.
Mr Walsh said the timing of the Air Europa deal, coming a little more than a month after US carrier Delta paid 
$1.9bn for a 20 per cent stake in Latam, was coincidental. 
“These are completely independent decisions that happen to have been reached in and around the same time,” he 
said. 
Shares in the London-listed group rose nearly 2 per cent to a six-month high in early trading. 
Air Europa will join IAG’s growing stable of airlines, which include Ireland’s Aer Lingus and low-cost carriers Vueling 
and Level. Last week the group blamed industrial action and rising fuel costs for a fall in profits, following the first 
pilots’ strike in the airline’s history. 
Daily newsletter
Are you interested in the latest company news? Every morning our City reporter Cat Rutter Pooley covers the 
biggest business stories and delivers them straight to your inbox.
 Sign up here with one click
“We continue to believe there is scope for further consolidation within Europe, and this is the next step,” Mr Walsh 
said. 
The Air Europa brand will be retained initially, and be run as a standalone part of Iberia. Over time, Mr Walsh said 
he expected IAG to reduce the number of brand names operating in Spain. 
The deal, funded by external debt, is expected to be completed in the second half of 2020, subject to regulatory 
approval. 
Load-Date: November 5, 2019
End of Document
US equities hit record on optimism over US-China dispute
US equities hit record on optimism over US-China dispute
 
FT.com
November 4, 2019 Monday 9:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 563 words
Byline: Sarah Provan in London, Daniel Shane in Hong Kong and Richard Henderson in New York
Body
Fresh optimism on trade negotiations and positive corporate earnings sent US stocks to a new record on Monday 
and pushed global equities indices higher.
The S&P 500 advanced 0.4 per cent, extending last week’s all-time closing high for the index and driving a 22.8 per 
cent bull run so far this year, while indices in Europe and Asia also edged higher.
A cautious thawing of US-China trade relations boosted the markets after Wilbur Ross, the US commerce 
secretary,  said on Sunday that he was “quite optimistic” the remaining obstacles in the first phase of US trade 
negotiations with China could be overcome soon, adding that the Chinese and US leaders still planned to meet this 
month. 
The rosy outlook on trade talks and central bank easing across the world have injected fresh vitality into global 
equities, helping investors overcome persistent concerns that escalating tariffs would slow the global economy.
“In light of recent developments and apparent progress in US-China negotiations, we are shifting our view and no 
longer believe tariffs will increase further,” said Goldman Sachs analysts in a note. “Instead, we expect that tariffs 
on imports from China will remain at current levels through 2020.”
Monday’s record high followed data on Friday that  showed US economy added more jobs than expected in 
October, defying predictions that a year of slowing manufacturing growth would stunt consumer spending and 
company hiring. This added thrust to US stocks and put the S&P 500 index on course to hit its best percentage rise 
in a year since 2013. 
US equities hit record on optimism over US-China dispute
US corporate earnings have also outpaced analyst estimates, adding extra support for stocks, despite expectations 
earnings will contract.
“Third-quarter earnings in the US are surprising on the upside, while European delivery is broadly in line,” said 
analysts at JPMorgan. “Similar to previous quarters, growth in earnings per share for S&P 500 has started inflecting 
higher and the strategy team expects this supportive trend to continue.” The US investment bank added that its 
global equity strategists believe “international stocks will be the outperformer” in coming days and weeks.
European stocks advanced across the board on Monday with the bellwether Stoxx 600 gaining 0.8 per cent, its 
highest point since August 2015, driven a 9.5 per cent gain for Siemens Healthineers and 8.5 per cent rise in 
Ryanair shares. The index has notched a 22 per cent advance this year. London’s FTSE 100 edged 0.9 per cent 
higher while Frankfurt’s Dax edged 1.4 per cent higher.
In Asia, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index hit a three-month high, adding 1.7 per cent, and China’s CSI 300 of 
Shanghai- and Shenzhen-listed shares edged 0.7 per cent higher. South Korea’s export- and electronics-heavy 
benchmark Kospi gained 1.4 per cent to a four-month high, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 was up 0.3 per cent, as 
a lacklustre set of earnings from bank Westpac capped enthusiasm. The Japanese market is closed for a public 
holiday.
Top markets stories
•
China’s stock market on track as world’s best performing in 2019
•
Will trade data help or hinder China’s negotiating position
•
US stock market’s new high baffles investors
•
•
Markets Briefing is a concise look at global markets, updated throughout the trading day by Financial Times 
journalists in Hong Kong, New York and London. Feedback? Write in the comments below or             send us an 
email.
Load-Date: November 5, 2019
End of Document
Stocks to watch: BP, Stora Enso, Royal Bank of Scotland , Ryanair
Stocks to watch: BP, Stora Enso, Royal Bank of Scotland, Ryanair
 
FT.com
October 29, 2019 Tuesday 3:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 967 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Tuesday 13:30 GMT
What’s happening
● BP led the FTSE 100 fallers as hopes of a dividend rise were dashed. 
At the half-year point BP had said progress in cutting debt would be “a signal in terms of distributions and a move 
on the dividend later in the second half of this year”. But during BP’s third-quarter conference call, chief financial 
officer Brian Gilvary said debt gearing would “remain above the top-end of our target” through the year-end and only 
move towards the middle of the range through 2020, partly because of the timing of disposal proceeds.
“As a result, we believe, a dividend hike in the fourth quarter 2019 or first quarter 2020 now seems less likely,” said 
Morgan Stanley. 
BP’s third-quarter results surpassed forecasts with clean net income of $2.25bn, down 41 per cent year on year but 
ahead of a $1.73bn consensus. Kepler Cheuvreux said this difference was accounted for by its Rosneft partnership 
and a lower-than-guided tax rate. Figures were in line on an underlying basis, the broker said. 
● Stora Enso led Europe’s paper and packaging stocks lower after cutting profit targets to reflect deteriorating 
trading conditions, weaker prices and reduced sales volumes. 
Stocks to watch: BP, Stora Enso, Royal Bank of Scotland , Ryanair
The Finnish group said fourth-quarter earnings before interest and tax would be between €100m and €180m, well 
below the €218m consensus and down 61 per cent year on year at the midpoint. Analysts said the revised guidance 
cut full-year consensus earnings forecasts by about 8 per cent. 
Sellside stories
● UBS downgraded Royal Bank of Scotland from “buy” to “neutral” with a 235p target price.
RBS “is well managed and positioned well to deliver substantial dividends and buybacks”, said UBS. But it saw 
RBS as fairly valued given the stock’s gearing to interest rates and its valuation of 10.7 times 2020 earnings, a 
premium of between 30 per cent and 40 per cent to Barclays and Lloyds Banking Group. 
UBS forecast that RBS can return £3.2bn of excess capital, equivalent to 11 per cent of its market value. But it 
cautioned that the cost of restructuring NatWest Markets, the “key sticking point” in RBS’s recent third-quarter 
results, was a near-term drag on cash return prospects.
● JPMorgan Cazenove downgraded Royal Mail from “neutral” to “underweight” with a 192p price target. Its 
downgrade follows a Communication Workers Union ballot of Royal Mail employees this month in which 97 per cent 
voted in favour of a strike. 
“We believe that with most of the short-run positive Brexit news flow now behind us, focus will return to the 
company-specific situation and potential CWU industrial action. While the direct cost of a strike is potentially 
manageable, we believe the indirect costs of lower parcel volume and cost savings are likely material. That 
said, we do not believe making concessions to the union to avoid a strike is a sustainable strategy.”JPMorgan
The mediation timetable suggests industrial action could coincide with a UK general election as well as the Black 
Friday sales on November 29 and its online equivalent, Cyber Monday, on December 2, said JPMorgan. The broker 
also noted a CWU threat to time any potential strike for maximum bargaining leverage.
With cost savings from the UK Parcels, International and Letters division harder to achieve, Royal Mail was likely to 
deliver a £277.5m headline operating profit in the current year, below company guidance of £300m to £340m, 
JPMorgan forecast.
● Goodbody upgraded Ryanair from “hold” to “buy” with a €13 target as part of an UK airline sector review. 
While airlines’ recent share price performance has been driven by Brexit, an improving underlying picture for the 
business has not been priced in, the broker said. “As such we would want to be long the sector going into a 
reporting season when management commentary should be much more positive on yields than of late.”
Ryanair is “at a turning point” thanks to rising profitability, positive ancillary revenue growth, a rolling off of fuel 
hedges and the likelihood that Boeing’s grounded 737 Max will enter service before the year-end, Goodbody said. 
“With the intra-European market moving into a better demand-capacity balance and with some radical surgery 
being seen in Ryanair’s UK, German and Spanish services over the winter . . . management will reinforce its 
view that yields will rise in the second-half period. Adding in the fact that last year’s fourth-quarter comparison 
figures are favourable and we think that the company will have enough confidence to tighten guidance towards 
the middle of its current €750-950m range. We think that this message will be taken well by the 
market.”Goodbody
The broker also had “buy” recommendations on IAG, Wizz Air, while easyJet, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa 
were all left on “hold” ratings. 
Daily newsletter
Are you interested in the latest company news? Every morning our City reporter Cat Rutter Pooley covers the 
biggest business stories and delivers them straight to your inbox.
Stocks to watch: BP, Stora Enso, Royal Bank of Scotland , Ryanair
 Sign up here with one click
● In brief: 1&1 Drillisch cut to “neutral” at UBS; Bankia cut to “sell” at Société Générale; Boliden raised to “neutral” 
at Merrill Lynch; DNB cut to “sell” at UBS; Kloeckner cut to “neutral” at Goldman Sachs; Knorr-Bremse cut to 
“neutral” at UBS; Mediawan rated new “buy” at Berenberg; Nokia cut to “neutral” at Credit Suisse; Nordea cut to 
“underperform” at RBC; SEB cut to “neutral” at UBS; SGL raised to “hold” at SocGen; SHB cut to “sell” at UBS; 
Sampo raised to “buy” at UBS; TLG Immobilien raised to “equal-weight” at Barclays; Topdanmark raised to 
“equal-weight” at Morgan Stanley; United Internet cut to “neutral” at UBS; WashTec raised to “buy” at HSBC; 
Xilam Animation rated new “buy” at Berenberg.
Read more
Global stocks slide after record Wall Street close
For market updates and comment follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Load-Date: October 30, 2019
End of Document
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet, YouGov, GVC
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet, YouGov, GVC
 
FT.com
October 11, 2019 Friday 5:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1609 words
Byline: Investors Chronicle reporters
Body
Buy: EasyJet (EZJ)
Capacity growth for the full 2020 financial year is expected to be at the lower end of easyJet’s historic range, writes 
Julia Faurschou.
Investors in airlines are often sensitive to any perceived difficulty in passenger numbers not keeping up with 
increases in capacity. This could be behind the significant slide in easyJet’s share price following a preliminary 
trading update for the year to September. 
While the number of passengers carried increased by 8.6 per cent to 96m, this did not keep pace with a 10.3 per 
cent increase in capacity to 105m seats available, leading to a 1.4 percentage point decline in load factor to 91.5 
per cent.
Strikes at British Airways and Ryanair were to the benefit of easyJet in its second half. This, along with “self-help 
initiatives” to drive passenger yield, mean that headline pre-tax profit is expected to be between £420m and £430m, 
towards the upper end of previous guidance of between £400m and £440m. Total revenue per seat at constant 
currency for the second half is expected to increase by about 0.8 per cent, better than management’s previous 
assessment that it would be “slightly down”, due in part to the strike action disruption at competitors.
The increase in capacity also contributed to an increase in total headline cost for the full year, expected to be up 
around 12 per cent, with higher fuel costs at about £1.42bn and adverse foreign exchange movements also 
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet, YouGov, GVC
impacting that figure. Excluding fuel, cost per seat at constant currency is expected to fall by around 0.8 per cent, 
despite the impact of storms and technical issues at Gatwick airport.
Hold: YouGov (YOU)
Figures for full-year 2019 suggest YouGov is onto a good thing, even though a forward price/earnings ratio of 34 
indicates that the market is in agreement, writes Alex Hamer.
It’s a good time to be in the data opinion and analysis business. YouGov has continued to generate more revenue 
and cash profits, as it shifts away from a rigid focus on standard market research activities in favour of real-time 
data analytics. The group has taken a “big bet”, according to chief executive Stephan Shakespeare, on the 
willingness of clients to pay for detailed access to personal information such as live banking data. “It lets you do 
things that would be creepy, if it wasn’t for the fact that actually the person selling it is wanting to do that,” he said. 
YouGov Direct is a relatively new division aimed at linking people with companies who want to utilise specific data. 
Mr Shakespeare said that out of a group of 800 people, 250 said they were happy to share live banking data with a 
third party in exchange for a cash payment — another manifestation, perhaps, of the Facebook era. 
Looking at the more established YouGov divisions, the data products section saw the biggest growth year on year, 
with revenue climbing 36 per cent to £41.5m, outperforming the customs research division, where revenue was up 
2 per cent to £60m. However, a pointer to the evolution of the product offering is provided by data services, which 
comprises fast-turnaround research services. Revenue here rose 28 per cent to £37.2m.
YouGov, in true Soviet style, is now into its second five-year-plan. The first set higher revenue and profit goals and 
a reshaping of the business around the data products and services division. The current objectives centre on 
doubling revenue and the adjusted operating profit margin by 2023, while targeting adjusted earnings growth at a 
compound rate of 30 per cent a year. 
Mr Shakespeare said this would partly come from clients using more of their product range, ergo cross-selling 
opportunities. “The most important thing is that…we get more and more clients using two or three of the pieces, not 
just one,” he said. 
Broker Numis forecasts adjusted earnings per share at 16p for July 2020, rising to full-year 2021, with respective 
adjusted cash profits at £150m and £162m.
Buy: GVC (GVC)
Strong trading in the third quarter has prompted GVC to upgrade profit guidance for the full year. The bookie now 
expects to generate cash profits of between £670m and £680m during the 2019 financial year, up from the £650m-
£670m range previously expected, writes Julia Faurschou.
Chief executive Kenny Alexander said this upgrade was driven by strong online momentum across all territories, 
with net gaming revenue (NGR) up 12 per cent during the third quarter, despite part of the football World Cup falling 
in the comparative period. Mr Alexander also called the September launch of the BetMGM app in New Jersey a 
“key milestone”, adding that the joint venture with MGM is well placed to take advantage of the US sports betting 
market.
So far, the impact of the maximum stake cut from £100 to £2 on fixed-odds betting terminals in UK retail shops 
hasn’t proved as detrimental to trading as initially expected. Management said trends in UK retail “remain ahead of 
initial guidance”, with like-for-like NGR down 18 per cent, as a 36 per cent decline from machines was partially 
mitigated by a 7 per cent improvement in over-the-counter NGR.
The shares were up around 6 per cent following the announcement, continuing the recovery that began over the 
summer, to trade at 795p or 13 times forecast earnings.
Chris Dillow: The danger of risk aversion
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet, YouGov, GVC
In recent weeks we’ve seen shares slip and gilt yields fall. This can only mean one of two things – that investors 
have become either more pessimistic about economic growth, or more reluctant to take on risk (or a bit of both).
The distinction matters. If investors have become more risk-averse then the market should bounce back, because 
high returns should in theory be the reward for taking risks that others are avoiding. If, on the other hand, shares 
have fallen because of expectations of lower growth they will only recover if those expectations prove too 
pessimistic. Otherwise, lower future growth means lower dividends than previously expected, which should mean 
permanently lower prices.
How can we tell which it is? Theory says we should be able to do so by looking at high-beta stocks. If these 
underperform while gilt yields are falling, it is a sign that investors are becoming more reluctant to take risk. If theory 
is right that good returns are a reward for taking risk, this should lead to shares generally rising.
Sadly, however, the evidence for this is mixed. It is the case that falls in 10-year gilt yields over a six-month period 
more often than not lead to rises in the All-Share index in the following six months. But the correlation, while 
statistically significant, is modest at just 0.23 over the past 15 years.
Worse still, the link between the performance of high-beta stocks and subsequent returns on the All-Share index is 
the opposite to what theory predicts. Using my high-beta portfolio as a measure tells us that six-month periods in 
which high-beta stocks underperform the market are more likely than not to lead to the All-Share index falling rather 
than rising in the next six months. When investors become more reluctant to take on market risk, it is a sign not that 
shares generally are about to recover, but the exact opposite – that they could fall further.
This contradicts conventional theory. It is, however, consistent with other evidence. Andrew Lo at the MIT, and the 
UCLA’s Tyler Muir and Alan Moreira at the University of Rochester, have separately shown that rises in market 
volatility tend to lead to shares falling. This implies that it does not pay to take on risk when others are avoiding it. 
This is consistent with the bold claim made by Eric Falkenstein at Pine River Capital Management that there is 
actually no correlation between risk and return.
We can, however, salvage the theory. There’s one indicator that does have some predictive power. It’s the 
performance of high-beta stocks relative to value stocks (as measured by my high-yield portfolio). When beta 
underperforms value, the All-Share index tends to subsequently rise: since 2004 the correlation for six-month 
changes has been 0.35. Poor performance by high-beta stocks relative to value in 2012, late 2014 and mid 2016 all 
led to the All-Share rising, while outperformance by beta stocks in 2008 and early 2018 led to it falling.
What’s going on here is straightforward. Deep value stocks are a barometer of investors’ expectations of near-term 
growth prospects; their collapse in 2008, for example, was a harbinger of recession. If they hold up while high-beta 
stocks fall, therefore, it is a sign that investors are comfortable with growth prospects but are more risk-averse. And 
this should (and does!) lead to shares generally rising, as that risk aversion dissipates.
Herein lies some good news. In the past six months high-beta stocks have indeed underperformed value, implying 
that aversion to market risk has risen while attitudes to growth haven’t changed much (albeit by remaining 
downbeat). History suggests this is the combination that tends to lead to equities generally rising.
Granted, this indicator, while statistically significant, isn’t very powerful. But it is consistent with two other bullish 
indicators. One is that we’re approaching the time of year when equities traditionally do well. The other is that the 
dividend yield on the All-Share index is well above its longer-term average.
It might not feel like it, therefore, but there are reasons for equity investors to be mildly optimistic.
Chris Dillow is an economics commentator for Investors Chronicle
The Financial Times and its journalism, including Investors Chronicle content, are subject to a self-regulation 
regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice:  FT.com/editorialcode
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet, YouGov, GVC
Load-Date: October 11, 2019
End of Document
EasyJet upgrades profit forecasts
EasyJet upgrades profit forecasts
 
FT.com
October 8, 2019 Tuesday 9:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 358 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet said full-year profits would be at the top end of its forecasts, after a boost from pilot strikes at rivals British 
Airways and Ryanair. 
The budget airline reported on Tuesday that it expected to deliver a profit before tax of between £420m and £430m 
for the 12 months ending September 30. In July, it had given a range of £400m to £440m.
The trading update comes almost a month after BA was hit by a two-day pilot walkout that grounded 2,325 flights. 
IAG, which owns BA, warned that its full-year profits would be affected, saying the total financial impact of the 
strikes would be about €137m.
Ryanair has also had strikes by pilots in the UK and Spain, although its flights were largely unaffected. 
“EasyJet has continued to perform in line with expectations, despite challenging market conditions,” said Johan 
Lundgren, chief executive. 
“As a result of our self-help initiatives and the increased demand due to disruption at British Airways and Ryanair, 
we anticipate achieving headline profit before tax for the full year 2019 of between £420m and £430m.”
EasyJet said that for the second half of the year, total revenue per seat once the effect of currency fluctuations was 
stripped out would increase by about 0.8 per cent, an improvement from its previous guidance of “slightly down”. 
This was helped by some of easyJet’s performance initiatives as well as the increased demand due to strikes 
elsewhere.
EasyJet upgrades profit forecasts
The company reported that forward bookings for the first quarter were in line with a year ago. It expected capacity 
growth in 2020 to be at the lower end of its historic range. Its year-on-year capacity growth for the first quarter was 
2 per cent.
However, easyJet’s shares were down more than 5 per cent in morning trading. Analysts suggested this was likely 
to be because investors had been hoping for more detail about the outlook for 2020.
“The market was hoping for a more robust commentary, with a mention to positive pricing trends, with this needed 
to deliver reasonable profit growth this year given the less attractive fuel hedging it has in place compared to last 
year’s rates,” said Mark Simpson, aviation analyst at Goodbody. 
Load-Date: October 9, 2019
End of Document
EasyJet takes profit and pleasure from British Airways’ misfortune
EasyJet takes profit and pleasure from British Airways’ misfortune
 
FT.com
October 8, 2019 Tuesday 6:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 826 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Have you heard about Europe’s new low-cost airline, Air Schadenfreude? Its flights board at departure gates right 
next to stranded British Airways passengers. Its baggage is always first on the carousel, ahead of Ryanair’s 
surcharged suitcases. And its pilots will fly you to your destination and home again, unlike Thomas Cook’s. Sound 
appealing? If anything, it sounds like easyJet, in its full-year trading update. 
Johan Lundgren, boss of the real-life no-frills carrier, certainly took some pleasure from the misfortune of others — 
as “increased demand due to strikes at BA and Ryanair” let him increase his pre-tax profit forecast to “between 
£420m and £430m . . . the upper half of our previous guidance range”. 
EasyJet passengers will also have taken pleasure from taking off when others could not, as investments in 
“operational resilience” — ie, crew rosters and standby aircraft — meant fewer cancellations since last September, 
while BA and Ryanair were leaving 235,000 people grounded. 
But easyJet investors took nothing but a little pain — as a sell-off took the share price down 7.5 per cent. 
Why would they have qualms over profiting at BA’s and Ryanair’s expense? EasyJet arguably deserved credit, and 
a slightly higher valuation, for keeping its staff onside, and in the right airports at the right time. It had them selling 
more ancillary services, too, which meant total revenue per seat rose 0.8 per cent in the second half, contrary to 
earlier guidance that it would be “slightly down”. No, it was not the ability to profit from competitors’ woes that 
investors felt uncomfortable with, just the amount of that profit. 
EasyJet takes profit and pleasure from British Airways’ misfortune
Analysts at Bernstein questioned how profitable easyJet would have been without the strikes at BA and Ryanair. 
“We wonder what the influence of each of these factors, and the Thomas Cook bankruptcy, was  . . . the most 
interesting question to us is how much of this is due to disruption at competitors — and what the number would 
have been adjusted for underlying one-offs.” In other words, how much less pleasure might easyJet have taken 
without others’ misfortune? 
If the European airline sector is more swings and roundabouts than baggage carousels — with airlines taking turns 
to cash in on each other’s disruption — then “it really amounts to a zero-sum game,” argued analysts at AJ Bell. 
With plenty of investors able to play that game, easyJet’s higher profit could easily have been anticipated. Hence 
the 36 per cent rise in its share price since the first BA strike was mooted, and the 7.5 per cent fall when there was 
little more positive news.  
If easyJet’s shares are to keep rising, and return to the FTSE 100 index, the company needs to achieve more 
progress on its own, on rising costs and slowing capacity growth. Only then will its market value rise from today’s 
£4.3bn to the £4.5bn needed to overtake companies at the bottom end of the index. Its real profit will come at the 
expense of FTSE laggards Kingfisher, Centrica and J Sainsbury, not BA and Ryanair. 
Seventh sale to Sorrell 
For all that Martin Sorrell says his latest venture, S4 Capital, is not an acquisition vehicle, it has made yet another 
acquisition, writes Kate Burgess. It is paying up to $150m for a Silicon Valley online ad agency. It is about the 
seventh purchase since S4’s inception in May 2018: the two big ones of MightyHive and MediaMonks to get going, 
then a few others on the way, and now Firewood, which makes Google S4’s most important client. 
Sir Martin should not be so prickly about S4 being tagged an acquisition vehicle. The comparisons with WPP, the 
media empire he built up by acquisition, are inevitable. S4 is a riposte to critics who said WPP was an 
agglomeration of walled fiefdoms that failed to spot the digital age and could not connect with changing client 
demands. S4 will be uber-connected, unitary, purely digital and data-led, swears Sir M. It will be faster, clearer and 
cheaper. And it will double in size in two or three years. Yada, yada, yada.
In an adland squeezed between cost-conscious clients and digital media colossi Facebook and Google, size may 
not be all it is cracked up to be. Nimble is good.
However, if S4 is to grow as fast as the nascent business of digital advertising, it must do so by buying tech-savvy 
agencies such as Firewood. Neither the 70-something year old Sir Martin nor his backers, can afford to hang 
around to build an empire by organic means. It took Sir M — who says he has more in common with the Beano’s 
Dennis The Menace than the BBC’s Bagpuss— more the 30 years to amass WPP. 
Fender: blues guitar 
Guitar maker Fender could be fined up to 10 per cent of its $500m turnover if the UK competition regulator thinks it 
broke rules on pricing. It would need to sell an extra 18,194 limited edition Stratocasters at £2,249 a time to cover 
that. But are there really that many fund managers having a midlife crisis? 
matthew.vincent@ft.com
S4 Capital: kate.burgess@ft.com
Load-Date: October 9, 2019
End of Document
Battle for the skies risks a wider EU-US trade war
Battle for the skies risks a wider EU-US trade war
 
FT.com
October 3, 2019 Thursday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 600 words
Byline: The editorial board
Body
The bell has rung on the latest round in the battle between the world’s aviation heavyweights, Boeing and Airbus. 
This time a long-running phoney war threatens to turn into real hostilities. Under  a ruling issued yesterday, 
arbitrators at the World Trade Organization gave the US the green light to levy tariffs on European goods worth up 
to almost $7.5bn per year — the largest amount ever authorised. 
Europe and the US have been fighting over subsidies for their respective aircraft makers for more than a decade, 
long before President Trump’s feud with China and his “America first” strategy made such trade battles fashionable. 
Mr Trump has described the EU as “worse than China, just smaller”. He has already threatened to impose tariffs on 
imported cars as a stick to persuade Europe to include agriculture in any trade talks. Much as he might relish the 
fight, the prospect of serious economic consequences raises the stakes of a wider trade war between the two blocs. 
It is time for a negotiated settlement on the underlying issue: how the two sides support their aircraft makers. 
For the aerospace industry and its cross-border supply chains there is much at stake. Boeing and Airbus have 
airline customers on both sides of the Atlantic. America’s Delta Air Lines is a major Airbus customer, while in 
Europe, Ryanair and Lufthansa are big purchasers of Boeing jets. US politicians  have acknowledged tariffs could 
hurt an Airbus facility in Mobile, Alabama, which imports parts to assemble the successful A320 jet and is a big 
source of local employment. 
Both sides still enjoy a duopoly on large aircraft manufacturing but competitors are on the horizon, including from 
China. The potential damage goes well beyond the aerospace industry — under WTO rules, the US is not restricted 
Battle for the skies risks a wider EU-US trade war
to levying tariffs on Airbus planes. The list of additional targets identified by the US yesterday, which said it would 
apply levies albeit in a range of 10-25 per cent, includes Scotch whisky, cheeses and hand tools. 
The dispute has dragged on for nearly 15 years. The US first raised concerns over alleged illegal repayable launch 
aid for Airbus in 2004. The EU followed suit and filed a counter-case, alleging illegal state aid to Boeing through 
government money for defence contracts and tax breaks. In 2010 and 2011 the WTO ruled that both manufacturers 
had received unlawful assistance. Yesterday’s tariff decision relates to a  2018 ruling by the WTO that the EU had 
failed to eliminate unlawful aid to Airbus for its medium-sized A350 aircraft and the A380 superjumbo. The EU’s 
own case against Boeing is running about nine months behind. The WTO in March upheld a finding that the US had 
not enforced an order in 2012 to stop subsidies to Boeing through a Washington tax break. 
Neither side has been able to agree on the terms for a meeting to agree a settlement. Airbus yesterday repeated its 
calls for talks. A decision on EU compliance with the WTO rulings is still pending and could lead to the US having to 
lift tariffs. An agreed settlement would need to set out recognised rules and disciplines that both the US and the EU 
can adhere to. Defining the role of governments will be critical. 
There is now a potential window to strike a new agreement before either Boeing or Airbus launches a new aircraft. 
It would make sense to settle new terms of trade under a transparent and enforceable system. Otherwise the next 
15 years risk a repeat of the past decade and a half of tit-for-tat legal actions — as well as a mounting list of tariffs 
that could prove extremely costly for the global economy.
Load-Date: October 4, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair’s clampdown on pilot sick leave draws criticism
Ryanair’s clampdown on pilot sick leave draws criticism
 
FT.com
September 23, 2019 Monday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 539 words
Byline: Donato Paolo Mancini and Tanya Powley in London
Body
Ryanair has been criticised for threatening disciplinary action against pilots who have taken more than four bouts of 
sick leave in a year, a further flashpoint in the low-cost airline’s fraught labour relations. 
Pilots who have taken more than four chunks of sick leave over a 12-month period have been sent letters as part of 
the carrier’s review of “pilot absenteeism”, according to several people familiar with the matter.
The letters, several of which have been seen by the FT, state that without an “immediate and significant 
improvement” in attendance, disciplinary action may be necessary.
The European Cockpit Association, which brings together 36 national pilots’ unions, has raised concerns over the 
approach to sick leave with the European Aviation Safety Agency. In June, the Ryanair Transnational Pilot Group, 
formed to provide a voice for pilots across Europe, sent an update to members saying it was aware that letters 
continue to be sent. 
“Any airline that puts an arbitrary limit on how many times or days its pilots can get sick is playing with fire,” said 
Philip von Schöppenthau, secretary-general at the ECA. “The effect of such a policy would be to encourage 
presenteeism at work among pilots and to put pressure on them to fly an aircraft while sick.”
According to Easa and EU regulations, pilots cannot perform duties on board an aircraft when unfit due to injury, 
fatigue, medication, sickness or other similar causes.
Ryanair’s clampdown on pilot sick leave draws criticism
In response, a Ryanair spokeswoman said: “Like all employers, Ryanair monitors and manages absenteeism.” She 
added: “Absence management is a normal part of the employer/employee relationship in all businesses.”
Europe’s largest low-cost carrier has been negotiating collective labour agreements with unions since it agreed to 
recognise them in late 2017 after a rostering failure led to thousands of flight cancellations.
But talks have  progressed fitfully, and the airline has been hit with intermittent strike action over the past year over 
pay and conditions. The British Airline Pilots Association has carried out seven days of walkouts over August and 
September, while members of Sepla, the Spanish pilots’ union, have also gone on strike this week. However, the 
walkouts have so far had little impact on its operations.
One Ryanair pilot, who wished to remain anonymous, said the airline’s approach to sick leave was worrying. “Even 
something as simple as a head cold that would not stop an office worker performing their job, you can rupture your 
ear drums at altitude. You cannot have pilots or anyone in a safety critical job that is not 100 per cent for duty.”
While the letters concede that some absence is unavoidable, they note that “excessive absence” disrupts 
customers and places unfair pressure on colleagues who have to be drafted in, often at short notice, to fly the 
plane. 
John Moore, head of industrial relations at Balpa, said Ryanair’s approach is “out of line” with other UK airlines. 
“It’s most unusual to threaten disciplinary action unless there’s a good cause to suspect it’s not a genuine sickness 
absence,” said Jo Keddie, partner and head of employment at Winckworth Sherwood LLP, a law firm. “It seems to 
erode the trust and confidence that link airlines and pilots.”
Load-Date: September 24, 2019
End of Document
Stocks to watch: Tui , easyJet , Hurricane Energy, Sainsbury, Prosus
Stocks to watch: Tui, easyJet, Hurricane Energy, Sainsbury, Prosus
 
FT.com
September 23, 2019 Monday 1:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1090 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Monday 13:30 BST
What’s happening
● Tui led the FTSE 100 gainers as the collapse of Thomas Cook raised hopes of tighter package holiday capacity 
and improved pricing.
Tui and Thomas Cook overlap in key markets including the UK, Germany and the Nordics, said Barclays. It forecast 
that if Tui picked up £2bn of lost Thomas Cook revenue it would be worth an extra 4 per cent to group trading profit. 
“However, whilst the benefit to Tui could be material, the issues TCG has faced only serve to highlight how 
challenged the tour operating business is from a structural perspective. So while Tui may benefit, investors are 
unlikely to immediately become fully comfortable owning Tui, particularly given the immediate uncertainties ahead.”
● On The Beach edged higher even after cautioning that it would book the cost of covering Thomas Cook’s 
cancelled flights as a one-off exceptional, as well as losing margin on cancelled bookings. The costs could be up to 
£7m, or a fifth of adjusted annual pre-tax profit, analysts said.
Historically, between 15 per cent and 20 per cent of OTB bookings have included a Thomas Cook flight, according 
to Liberum. Short-term disruption was inevitable but flight schedules should have evened out by the summer 2020 
season and “with the 2.5m former Thomas Cook passengers up for grabs, this should then become a major 
Stocks to watch: Tui , easyJet , Hurricane Energy, Sainsbury, Prosus
tailwind,” it said. “Hence, this event will likely change the shape of 2020 but overall could end up neutral for the year 
ahead.”
● EasyJet and Ryanair led gains among the airline stocks. Thomas Cook accounted for about 1.5 per cent of 
European short-haul capacity from the UK in the winter, rising to about 3 per cent in the summer, analysts said. Its 
failure follows on the heels of French airlines Aigle Azur and XL Airways that ceased trading.
“This autumn shake-out is earlier than usual (late October/November tends to be the airline liquidity low point). 
While distressing news for passengers and holidaymakers, longer-term an earlier shake-out likely leads to less 
risk of irrational fare pricing (cash flow raising rather than profit making) affecting this winter . . .  For easyJet 
we think this does suggest a more rational winter is ahead, but beyond that, how [airport landing] slots and 
capacity is recycled back into the market will be key. History here suggests that capacity will not disappear, but 
return in just a slightly more consolidated form.”RBC
Sellside stories
● Morgan Stanley upgraded glasses maker EssilorLuxottica from “neutral” to “overweight” with a €143-a-share 
target price. Improved corporate governance has helped bolster confidence in merger synergies being delivered, 
with the blue-sky scenario of perfect execution offering more than 50 per cent upside, it said. 
EssilorLuxottica is “a unique, vertically integrated player with a dominant position in an industry exposed to 
structural growth drivers”, said Morgan Stanley. Underperformance versus best-in-class consumer and medical 
technology players over the past year has left the stock no more expensive than its main peers even though it offers 
greater opportunities to create value and a sector-leading free cash flow yield in excess of 5 per cent, the broker 
said. 
● Canaccord Genuity upgraded Hurricane Energy from “speculative buy” to “buy” with a 95p target price in 
response to recent first-half results from the North Sea oil explorer. An operational update on Hurricane’s Lancaster 
prospect in the West of Shetland improved confidence both in the reservoir quality and the project work, it said.
“The Lancaster early production system has been on stream for only three months or so, and unsurprisingly it 
has not all been straightforward operationally. That seems likely to continue through the full commissioning 
process and the expansion programme ahead. Yet underlying that the company’s confidence in the Lancaster 
EPS is strengthening and we think that is increasingly justified in terms of both the subsurface and 
facilities.“There is still plenty of data to be gathered to embed the sense of reducing risk, and with another 
update expected before the year end 2019 and a capital markets day in the first quarter of 2020 there will be 
plenty of information to assess. We note that the current market capitalisation discounts little more than a 
risked view of the planned expanded Lancaster EPS, largely ignoring the undeveloped resource 
potential.”Canaccord
● Deutsche Bank upgraded J Sainsbury and Wm Morrison from “hold” to “buy” as part of a European grocery 
sector review. Having underperformed the wider market this year on fears about Brexit effects, food retailers are 
trading on average 19 per cent below their five-year historical relative valuation, Deutsche said. 
“While we agree there will be some short-term disruptions in case of a no-deal Brexit, we also see room for 
retailers to mitigate it in the mid term through supply chain adjustments. Also, and as the risks of a recession in 
the UK increase, we believe the sector’s defensive nature should enable it to outperform, similar to the 2008-
2009 period. As a result, we expect the share price pressure to ease gradually.”Deutsche
Morrison has “the most defensive positioning, with less exposure to non food and a more locally sourced supply 
chain, on top of a strong balance sheet”, said Deutsche. 
Sainsbury’s was entering a recovery phase with more aggressive pricing and promotions expected to drive 
improved sales growth in coming quarters, said the broker. It also kept “buy” advice on Tesco, saying earnings 
growth should outpace European peers as margins still had plenty of scope to improve. 
Stocks to watch: Tui , easyJet , Hurricane Energy, Sainsbury, Prosus
As part of the same research, Deutsche downgraded Metro AG from “hold” to “sell” in the wake of last month’s 
failure by Czech and Slovak investors to take the German group private. “We believe the likelihood of a bid on 
Casino remains limited at this stage and see divestment potentially leading to higher rents and/or lower purchasing 
power,” it said. 
● In brief: Aena cut to “equal weight” at Barclays; Elisa cut to “sell” at Citigroup; Gusbourne rated new “buy” at 
Canaccord; Petra Diamonds raised to “hold” at Berenberg; Prosus rated new “overweight” at Morgan Stanley; 
SEB cut to “underweight” at Morgan Stanley; Sanofi raised to “overweight” at Morgan Stanley; Swedbank raised to 
“overweight” at Morgan Stanley; Telefónica Deutschland raised to “neutral” at Credit Suisse; Telenor cut to 
“equal-weight” at Barclays.
Read more
Global equities start week on dreary note
For market updates and comment follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Load-Date: September 24, 2019
End of Document
BA restores part of September 27 flight schedule as strike averted
BA restores part of September 27 flight schedule as strike averted
 
FT.com
September 20, 2019 Friday 6:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 469 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
British Airways will operate around half of its flights next Friday as the airline restores some of its schedule after its 
pilots announced they would no longer strike on September 27.
Britain’s flag carrier said customers whose flights were scrapped because of next week’s planned industrial action 
will have the option to rebook on to a BA flight. 
The news comes two days after the British Airlines Pilots’ Association, which represents the majority of BA’s pilots, 
cancelled next week’s strike action and called on the airline to restart talks to end one of the most serious industrial 
disputes in its history.
But the decision will come at a cost for BA. The airline had already cancelled most of its 800 flights for September 
27, as well as dozens of flights either side of the strike date. 
A 48-hour walkout by pilots this month cost the airline an estimated £40m a day after it was forced to cancel almost 
1,700 flights, hitting 195,000 customers. 
BA contacted passengers on September 12 to confirm cancellations, 15 days ahead of the strike date. Under EU 
law, this means that passengers are only entitled to a new flight or a refund. If BA had given 14 or fewer days’ 
notice, the airline would have been liable for additional compensation payments.
Most of BA’s customers are now likely to have rearranged their plans, either by booking a new flight with the airline 
or one of its partners or by getting a refund and rebooking their own flight elsewhere.
BA restores part of September 27 flight schedule as strike averted
BA said: “We are offering all customers whose flights were cancelled due to next week’s planned industrial action 
the option to rebook on to a British Airways flight, with a schedule of services to our daily destinations on 
September 26, 27 and 28.”
Passengers who opted for a refund should be able to rebook at their original fare, as well as those customers that 
chose to be moved to another airline by BA. However, passengers who decided to book their own travel will not be 
given their money back if they end up choosing to fly with BA. 
On Wednesday, Balpa said calling off the strike was a “genuine attempt at establishing a timeout for common sense 
to prevail”. 
However, the union warned that should BA refuse “meaningful new negotiations”, it retained the right to announce 
further strike dates. It has a mandate for strike action until January. 
BA declined to comment on whether it planned to restart talks with Balpa. 
In a separate industrial dispute, Balpa on Friday also cancelled five further days of strike action at Ryanair — saying 
it also wanted to pave the way for meaningful negotiations through Acas, the UK conciliation service. Its Ryanair 
pilots have already walked out for seven days in August and September. The low-cost airline was still able to run its 
normal operating schedule by flying in pilots from other bases around Europe. 
Load-Date: September 21, 2019
End of Document
Half of Ryanair investors fail to back pay report
Half of Ryanair investors fail to back pay report
 
FT.com
September 19, 2019 Thursday 4:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 863 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Gormanston, Ireland and Tanya Powley and Daniel Thomas in London
Body
Ryanair investors have registered a big protest vote against pay after long-serving chief executive Michael O’Leary 
was granted a bonus that could be worth as much as €99m. 
Almost half of the airline’s shareholders failed to back its remuneration report, which received support from only 
50.5 per cent.
The protest centres around options for 10m shares that were issued to Mr O’Leary in February and would pay out 
€99m if the company made a €2bn profit or its share price reached €21 over the next five years.
Mr O’Leary admitted it was a “particularly sensitive” remuneration report. “We’re disappointed that the vote wasn’t 
higher,” he said.
But the chief executive defended the share options on the basis that they aligned his interests with shareholders. 
“I don’t think there’s any investor in that room . . . that would begrudge a large number of share options if I doubled 
their investment in the next five years,” he told reporters. “If I don’t do it over the next five years, you don’t pay me 
anything at all. It’s a free bet for shareholders.”
One top 20 investor told the Financial Times it had voted against the remuneration report due to “transparency 
issues”. They added: “The Ryanair management was granted significant share options with no compelling 
justification.” 
Half of Ryanair investors fail to back pay report
Another shareholder, Jocelyn Brown, a senior investment manager at the UK railways pension scheme, said the 
share options scheme “raises a red flag for us in terms of quantum”. She added: “We appreciate Mr O’Leary’s role 
in the success of Ryanair but a potential payout of over €100m is hard to support.”
The non-binding vote comes at a difficult time for Ryanair. The carrier is embroiled in labour disputes almost two 
years after it agreed to recognise unions following a rostering failure that led to thousands of flight cancellations. 
The British Airline Pilots Association is in the middle of 12 planned days of walkouts, while members of Sepla, the 
Spanish pilots’ union, have also gone on strike this week.
Sarah Wilson, chief executive of shareholder advisory group Minerva, said Ryanair “has been on the frequent flyer 
list of high votes against remuneration”.
Since records began, the airline has had 34 votes with more than 10 per cent dissent, of which eight related to 
remuneration. This latest pay vote protest was the highest to date. At the 2018 shareholder meeting 87.9 per cent 
of investors backed the report.
The revolt is even more striking when compared with the efforts by many companies in the UK to address concerns 
over wages. Vodafone executives, for example, voluntarily relinquished some of their longer-term incentives ahead 
of a threatened revolt over pay.
As a result, rebellions have been less frequent this year, although they have taken place at companies including 
BCA Marketplace, Berkeley Group, Standard Life Aberdeen, Capita and Plus500. The pay policy at Micro Focus 
was voted down.
Ashley Hamilton Claxton, head of responsible investment at Royal London Asset Management, said the group had 
sold its Ryanair holdings in actively managed funds last year, “partly because of concerns about the company’s 
corporate governance”.
Howard Millar, a director on Ryanair’s board, said Mr O’Leary’s pay was “significantly lower” than his peers in 
aviation and other FTSE 100 companies. “Retaining Michael’s services for a period of five years was very, very 
important for the board and, we believe, for the company, to deliver the very ambitious plans that we have.”
Mr O’Leary, whose basic pay and bonus were cut by half under the contract, added that the company would “have 
to take on board shareholder concerns in the next 12 months, and you’ll see that happen”. 
Ryanair’s share price hit a peak of nearly €20 in August 2017, but since then has slid as oil prices have risen and 
industrial action has escalated. The stock closed at €9.92 in Dublin on Thursday.
Ryanair reported a 24 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in the first quarter of this year. It announced in July plans to axe 
900 jobs after it said it would have to cut flights next summer as a result of the grounding of Boeing’s 737 Max jet. 
Mr O’Leary said at the annual meeting that the airline had frozen payments to Boeing over the 737 Max issue. He 
said Ryanair had no plan B for a “nightmare scenario” if the aircraft was grounded permanently — but did not think 
that was going to happen. 
“If it flies in North America this side of Christmas then I think we’re pretty secure. We’ll be back flying by sometime 
in the end of February/March,” he told reporters. “If it runs any later than March, April, May — we will then have to 
take more aircraft out of next summer’s schedule and slow down the growth further.”
A large number of investors also voted against the re-election of longtime chairman David Bonderman, despite 
management changes that will involve him stepping down next summer. Mr Bonderman was re-elected with the 
support of 75.2 per cent of shareholders. 
Tom Powdrill of Pirc, which works with the Local Authority Pension Fund Forum that holds about 1 per cent of 
Ryanair stock, said: “Seeing half a dozen board members receive Oppose votes in the high teens and upwards 
should be a real concern.”
Half of Ryanair investors fail to back pay report
Load-Date: September 20, 2019
End of Document
Opening Quote: Markets react to oil attack in Saudi Arabia
Opening Quote: Markets react to oil attack in Saudi Arabia
 
FT.com
September 16, 2019 Monday 7:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 849 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
Here at OQ, we like to focus on the biggest corporate news of the day. But every now and then there’s a story that's 
so big, we can’t not talk about it. 
The weekend’s attack on the world’s most important oil facility in Saudi Arabia is one of those (though in fairness, 
everything about Saudi Arabia and oil is pretty big). Ructions are already being felt through the markets. When 
trading started in Asia on Monday morning, the oil price spiked by as much as 20 per cent — the biggest move 
since the Kuwait invasion by Saddam Hussein in 1990. 
Predictably, stocks in Asia-Pacific oil producers are up, thought the Moody’s cautions longer term effects on energy 
companies will depend on how low Saudi Arabian production stays for how long. Airline stocks — most notably 
Qantas — were down. The country faces weeks without full crude and gas production. 
Things have calmed down slightly as we start the European morning. Brent crude is now trading up a mere 11 per 
cent at around $66.75. But still expect moves in London-listed stocks such as Royal Dutch Shell and BP (all up) 
and Ryanair and IAG (down). And don’t mention that small matter of the Aramco IPO…
Our live blog will follow updates throughout the day.
Briefly
Opening Quote: Markets react to oil attack in Saudi Arabia
London loves Aldi. The German discount retailer plans to more than double its number of stores in the capital over 
by 2025, from 45 to 100. Its smaller “Local” format stores — which feature around half the stock of a typical store 
(but long queues if my branch is anything to go by) — had “exceeded expectations”. Expansion lifted UK and 
Ireland sales by 11 per cent to £11.3bn, but the extra capital spending hit pre-tax profits, which fell 19 per cent to 
£182m. 
Man Group’s chair has stepped down after ten days of speculation that he was on his way out amid boardroom 
tensions. Ian Livingston, who chaired the listed hedge fund for less than four years, will step down at the end of the 
year. His exit follows that of another high profile executive, Jonathan Sorrell, last week. Lord Livingston’s successor 
will be former Deutsche Bank boss, John Cryan, who has been a non-executive at the company since 2015. The 
role makes an interesting addition to Cryan's portfolio of chairmanships: the other outfit he chairs  is XCyber Group, 
a cyber security company set up by ex-government intelligence officers. 
Eddie Stobart Logistics must be asking itself whether it is really worth keeping on trucking. The UK haulier had 
already warned of a hit to earnings after an accounting error. It has now flagged operating problems — or “an 
adverse performance against an ambitious budget” — plus problems with underperforming contracts, which mean 
the company is leaning more heavily on its debt facilities. This Monday morning it has said it is “considering all 
strategic options”, including raising new capital. Given Neil Woodford is the company’s biggest shareholder, that 
could be a problem, though, so the company is also in talks with its lenders. At the same time it is also talking to 
another one of its shareholders, DBay Advisors, about a possible takeover deal. Phew. 
Job moves
Direct Line, the insurer, has appointed a new chief financial officer. Tim Harris, deputy chief executive and group 
finance director at Royal London until July, joins next month. Before Royal London, Harris was at Torus Insurance 
and Aviva.
We're looking to feature more job moves. If you're in senior management and moving jobs or you know 
someone who is, let us know about it at quote@ft.com
Beyond the Square Mile
Purdue Pharma, the OxyContin maker owned by the Sackler family, has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, as it 
hopes to force holdout states to accept its offer — estimated at more than $10bn — to settle litigation over its role in 
the US opioid epidemic.
Blackstone has clinched an all-cash takeover for Canadian real estate investment trust Dream Global, valuing the 
owner of western European office and warehouse spaces at C$6.2bn ($4.7bn). The acquisition adds to 
Blackstone’s expanding portfolio of logistics properties — the group’s property arm closed a record $20.5bn in 
commitments last week.
Kingfisher’s chief executive, Veronique Laury, is unlikely to seal the sale of the group’s Iberian and Russian 
operations before stepping down later this month, in another blow to efforts to turn round the DIY retailer.
Deutsche Bank has signed up to the JPMorgan Chase-led Interbank Information Network, the financial services 
industry’s biggest blockchain project. The move will lower costs at the German bank, the world’s biggest clearer of 
euro denominated payments.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Nick Butler
With a leadership shake-up at its energy ministry and a potential record-breaking Aramco listing looming, Saudi 
Arabia is ill-equipped to deal with disruption.
Kate Burgess 
Opening Quote: Markets react to oil attack in Saudi Arabia
The pipeline of flotations on the London Stock Exchange has slowed to a trickle — now the bourse deserves the 
kiss of life.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can sign-up here.
Load-Date: September 16, 2019
End of Document
How does British Airways compare with rivals on pilot pay?
How does British Airways compare with rivals on pilot pay?
 
FT.com
September 12, 2019 Thursday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1046 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Archie Hall, Bethan Staton and David Keohane
Body
Pilots who are striking at British Airways are better paid than peers at their budget rivals but appear to be less well 
remunerated than their main European competitors, according to a Financial Times analysis.
A starting basic salary for a BA captain is about £75,000, according to Balpa, the pilots’ union. BA said the average 
salary for a captain was £167,000, with £16,000 of flight allowances on top of this. The airline has claimed the pay 
rise it has offered would take average captain salaries to more than £200,000.
In comparison, the starting salary for captains at German rival Lufthansa is €144,000, which rises to €170,000 with 
additional flight hours and profit sharing. Top-level captains earn a fixed salary of about €240,000, rising to 
€285,000 with the additional pay benefits. At Air France, the average salary for long-haul captains is €230,000, 
which does not include benefits, bonuses or profit shares.
UK budget carrier easyJet said its UK captains earned an average of £120,000 and a maximum of £145,000. 
Ryanair’s pilots can receive up to £170,000, according to the low-cost airline.
Industry commentators stressed that pilot pay was very difficult to compare across airlines. Pay varies depending 
on the seniority of the pilot, but airlines also offer different bonuses on top of fixed salaries, such as flight 
allowances, food, housing and profit-share schemes. 
“The devil is in the detail and there’s really a lot of detail because pilot contract structures are a science in 
themselves, plus there’s the exchange rate to factor in,” said Andrew Lobbenberg, aviation analyst at HSBC.
How does British Airways compare with rivals on pilot pay?
At the centre of the BA dispute is the demand for a profit-share scheme. BA’s pilots are disgruntled that comparable 
national carriers such as Lufthansa, Air France and KLM give a proportion of their profits to pilots.
A BA captain, who has been with the airline for more than a decade, said pilots were frustrated that they had taken 
cuts to help the business “rebuild” after the economic downturn, but were not sharing in its recovery. 
In 2009 BA made losses of £400m and faced a drop in demand for air travel because of the global recession. Now 
it is making money again — with an operating profit of €2.7bn last year — and pilots want a slice of it. 
Another pilot added: “I’ve flown with other airlines and the most unhappy employees I’ve flown with are at BA. Many 
of the older pilots are very upset. They’ve had new rostering systems . . . given up [holiday] leave and seen a lot of 
change.”
The BA captain said it was “enraging” that BA was not willing to share its profits, calling it “corporate greed”. He 
added: “I think our hand has been forced. The underlying issues have been building for quite a few years.”
Balpa, alongside the Unite and GMB unions that represent the rest of BA staff, said it had asked for a profit share 
scheme that would result in 7 per cent of operating profit going to workers. Brian Strutton, general secretary of 
Balpa, said other European airlines had schemes that were far more generous. Profit sharing is also common with 
the big US airlines.
BA has offered a pay rise of 11.5 per cent, plus a 1 per cent bonus — an offer that the other unions representing 
ground staff, cabin crew and engineers accepted. 
Several industry analysts said it was fair for BA’s pilots to ask for a share of profits.
“Profit sharing aligns labour interests with shareholders,” said Mr Lobbenberg. “For airlines, operating in a cyclical 
industry, it also offers a form of cushioning against downturns. US carriers have embraced this concept as they 
increased pay for pilots after the salary reductions applied in Chapter 11 [bankruptcy protection] during the financial 
crisis.”
Andrew Charlton, managing director of Aviation Advocacy, said airline employees had been “patient” as carriers 
had gone “through massive restructuring” over the past decade. 
“It wouldn’t be seen as inappropriate that some of the profit is shared. It’s certainly true that airlines have to be 
ferocious on costs at all times. The margins are so tiny. But on the other hand failing to operate for the last two days 
isn’t good for the bottom line either.” 
But BA appears to be standing firm on its offer. A spokesman said it believed its pilot salaries are “competitive, and 
on average we receive five applications from pilots working for competitor airlines for every pilot position at British 
Airways.”
He noted that nearly half — 42 per cent — of Balpa members joined BA after the 2008 economic crash so “they did 
not make any financial sacrifices”. 
He added: “Since then, the aviation industry has become ever more globally competitive. We have had to make 
some difficult decisions to create the strong financial platform we now have, and which provides stability for our 
entire workforce, including pilots.”
John Strickland, an aviation consultant, noted that while BA was a strong financial performer for IAG, the airline 
group that owns it, there were several uncertainties ahead, such as Brexit, intense competition and an order book 
that meant it needed to maintain strict control over costs. 
“People look at airlines like BA and look at them being profitable but in the airline industry, business can be quickly 
hit by unexpected events or downturns. The airlines that make it have cash in the bank to see it through.” 
Pilot pay at airlines
How does British Airways compare with rivals on pilot pay?
British Airways
•
Average captain paid £167,000 a year not including extra allowances
•
Average £183,000 including flight allowances
•
BA pay offer would take average captain to £200,000+
•
No profit sharing scheme
EasyJet
•
Average UK captain earns £120,000 a year
•
Maximum of £145,000.
•
Average UK pilot earns £92,000
Emirates
Captains receive base of 516,000 dirhams (£114,000) a year
Benefits include housing allowance worth (for captains) £42,000 and school fees
Pilots eligible for annual profit share
Lufthansa
Starting captain salary about €170,000 (£152,000) with additions
Top level captains can earn €285,000 (£255,000) with additions
Profit sharing included in salary
Air France
Average salary for long-haul captains €230,000, which does not include benefits, bonuses or profit shares
Has a profit sharing scheme
Ryanair
Base salary for UK captains roughly £74,000
Maximum captain salary including bonuses and allowances £170,000 
No profit share scheme 
Load-Date: September 12, 2019
End of Document
IAG / British Airways : life of Bryanair
IAG/British Airways: life of Bryanair
 
FT.com
September 6, 2019 Friday
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 346 words
Body
A European airline in a clash with trade unions. A dominating boss. Cutback cabin services. A knack for quickly 
filling the Twittersphere with abuse. British Airways has begun to resemble low-cost Ryanair. BA’s pilots plan to 
walk out on Monday over pay.  Additional strikes will follow if the airline does not resume negotiations, their union 
warned on Friday.
Ryanair, headed by the voluble Michael O’Leary, has so far avoided massive disruption from similar recent action 
by its pilots. Strikes at BA would be more effective, and brand damage greater. Some travellers will curse Willie 
Walsh, veteran chief executive of parent IAG. Its shares,  however, should remain among the airline sector’s better 
performers.
For many passengers, BA long ago became Bryanair, an airline charging them more than Ryanair for a service only 
marginally more comfortable. Two weeks ago, some were mistakenly told flights on non-strike days had been 
cancelled.  It did not add to the fun. A reputation for IT incompetence followed a power outage two years ago, which 
grounded hundreds of flights. 
Shareholders worry how IAG will meet EU ownership rules in a no-deal Brexit. European short haul travel is also in 
the midst of a price war. Assuming Brexit fallout is navigated, however, IAG should be among the winners, 
especially if sector consolidation ensues.  A former pilot, Mr Walsh has arguably more experience of trade unions 
than Mr O’Leary, who tried to avoid their recognition. BA’s 2017 technical glitch cost around £75m. A strike bill ten 
times that would be only a fifth of last year’s operating profits.
IAG’s shares have fallen 37 per cent over the past year. Since its creation in early 2011, however, they have 
delivered total returns of 90 per cent. Rival Lufthansa generated 13 per cent. At four times forward earnings, IAG’s 
IAG / British Airways : life of Bryanair
shares trade at a multiple barely higher than their five-year low. The proportion of analysts with them on “buy” last 
month reached the highest since the Brexit referendum. Investors may follow their recommendations. They do not 
have to fly on BA, though.
Load-Date: September 6, 2019
End of Document
Low-cost carrier Ryanair names Eddie Wilson as chief
Low-cost carrier Ryanair names Eddie Wilson as chief
 
FT.com
August 30, 2019 Friday 5:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 408 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has appointed Eddie Wilson, the man in charge of the low-cost airline’s union negotiations over the past 
two years, as chief executive of its main airline business following an overhaul of the company’s structure.
Mr Wilson, a 22-year veteran of Ryanair, will become chief executive of the budget airline from September 1. He will 
report directly to Michael O’Leary who earlier this year took on a new role of group chief executive overseeing all of 
its brands.
In his current job as chief people officer, Mr Wilson has played a key role in the ongoing negotiations with unions 
since Ryanair agreed to recognise them in late 2017 after a rostering failure and staff shortage led to thousands of 
flight cancellations. 
But talks have progressed fitfully, and the airline has been hit with intermittent strike action over the past year over 
pay and conditions. Some UK-based pilots are due to go on strike for three days next week, from September 2, 
while members of its Spanish cabin crew union are holding 10 days of walkouts throughout September. 
However, Ryanair said it expected its schedule to operate largely as normal in the UK. It comes after a 48-hour 
strike by members of the British Airline Pilots Association’ last week which resulted in minimal disruption. 
In a memo to staff on Friday, Mr O’Leary said that Mr Wilson had “made a huge contribution” to Ryanair’s success 
since he joined the low-cost carrier in 1997. Over this period, Ryanair has grown from carrying 3m passengers a 
year to more than150m. 
Low-cost carrier Ryanair names Eddie Wilson as chief
He said he hoped Mr Wilson will build on the “successful improvements” that the airline has delivered over the past 
12 months, particularly as the carrier navigates “very difficult times”, pointing to Brexit, delivery delays of the Boeing 
Max aircraft and having to close some bases because of slower growth. 
Mr Wilson’s appointment comes six months after Ryanair announced that it would move to a “group structure not 
dissimilar to that of IAG”, owner of British Airways and Iberia, with a small senior management team overseeing 
subsidiaries.
In a new role as head of Ryanair Holdings, Mr O’Leary oversees the chief executives of the main Ryanair carrier, as 
well as Laudamotion (based in Austria), Buzz (Poland) and Malta Air. He is responsible for decisions including, for 
example, merger and acquisition opportunities, costs and acquiring aircraft. 
Mr O’Leary will be chief executive of Ryanair Holdings until at least 2024. 
Load-Date: September 2, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair could be a contrarian gamble that actually takes off
Ryanair could be a contrarian gamble that actually takes off
 
FT.com
August 22, 2019 Thursday 10:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 830 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Ryanair has always been a somewhat contrary airline. It penalises passengers who can’t print their own boarding 
passes (as much as €600,  according to the Economist). It makes families pay extra to sit together (not always 
worth the €4, according to this columnist). So it’s perhaps not surprising that it only lands all its flights on time when 
its pilots are on strike. 
At least, that’s how it seemed on Thursday. Despite nearly 30 per cent of Ryanair’s UK pilots taking the first of five 
days of strike action, the airline reported “97 per cent punctuality . . .  without any disruption”. Before the strike, its 
on-time performance was 90 per cent. At one point, the only plane delayed at Stansted airport was one of rival 
easyJet’s.
Passengers may have been relieved, but shareholders will have worried about the cost. Before the industrial action, 
analysts at broker Liberum had warned: “The UK is the largest pilot pool within Ryanair, . . . we would anticipate 
material levels of disruption.”
RBC’s plane spotters suggested that the cost of this disruption, in lost revenue and extra expenditure, would be 
€30m over the five days, or 2-4 per cent of net profit. 
For Ryanair, the potential hit to its p&l could not have arrived at a worse time — a bit like one in 10 of its flights 
when there isn’t a strike on. 
Ryanair could be a contrarian gamble that actually takes off
It has just had to trim some of its full-year revenue guidance and those Bernstein analysts reckon it will need a 6 per 
cent rise in fares in the second half to achieve that — not easy with fares forecast to be 6 per cent down in the first 
half, and strikes now in the news. Delays to deliveries of Boeing’s 737 MAX aircraft have already cut summer 2020 
revenue growth forecasts from 7 per cent to about 3 per cent, with a knock-on effect on earnings.
However, might the actual disruption to Ryanair’s profits prove as limited as the disruption to passengers? Two 
factors suggest it could.
First, the airline has the pilot numbers, and the pilot mobility, to cope with a 30 per cent UK walkout. It recently said 
it had 500 more pilots that it needs, partly because of the 747 MAX delays, and ironically because other union pay 
deals have cut resignations to “zero”, in effect. Nor are its pilots, unlike its passengers, likely to be going anywhere. 
RBC analysts doubt that 737-qualified pilots could find alternative employment right now as no major operators are 
hiring — Norwegian is overstaffed, KLM is fleet constrained and SAS is exiting the 737. 
Second, revenue may yet surprise on the upside. While fares were down 6 per cent in the first half ancillaries were 
up 27 per cent (all those charges) and are expected to support overall revenue growth. Tighter capacity in the 
European market, exacerbated by the 737 MAX delays, may even help fares in the short term. 
Buying Ryanair’s shares — 10 per cent cheaper since the UK strike ballot — might not be so different to buying 
(and printing) a ticket: a contrarian gamble that actually takes off. 
A Rank recipe? 
Casino Royale, scene 166.
James Bond, having defeated Le Chiffre at the poker table, retires to the restaurant to celebrate with Vesper Lynd.
Bond: I’ll have a dry martini: three measures of Gordon’s, one of vodka, half a measure of Kina Lillet, shake it over 
ice, then add a slice of lemon peel.
Vesper: Make that two.
Bond: And bring us some beluga caviar, then the lobster . . .
Head waiter: Yes sir, but I am afraid there may be a slight delay.
Bond: Why? 
Head waiter: Well, the kitchen has just taken some rather large orders from Uber Eats and Deliveroo . . .
It is perhaps unlikely that Agent 007 would be building up an appetite over $10m poker hands at one of Rank 
Group’s Grosvenor casinos. Were he to do so, however, this is what he might find. 
As part of chief executive John O’Reilly’s turnround plan, the company is seeking extra revenue streams from its 
assets — and casino chefs who are paid to work all night, but generally don’t, are an obvious place to start. So, 
now, their skills are for hire via fast food apps, and Rank is also trying new leisure-led casino formats.
It is equally doubtful that Vesper Lynd would frequent a Mecca bingo hall. Were she to do so, however, she would 
find attempts to appeal to her demographic. Rank is trying younger “night out” entertainment formats. 
Some of these measures are working: the casino initiatives and cost cuts turned a 35 per cent fall in first-half 
operating profit into a 40 per cent rise in the second half. But with bingo footfall down and profit flat, group pre-tax 
profit fell 6 per cent to £70m.
What Rank needs is would-be Bonds skipping the restaurant altogether, and going home to play its virtual casino 
games. It regards its multichannel “wallet”, which lets punters play in its casinos and online, as key to catching up 
with digital rivals. 
Ryanair could be a contrarian gamble that actually takes off
But with only 80,000 signed up so far, and marketing spend essential to winning clients from established players, 
it’s going to need pockets as deep as those of MI6.
matthew.vincent@ft.com
Load-Date: August 25, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair loses legal bid to block pilots’ strike
Ryanair loses legal bid to block pilots’ strike
 
FT.com
August 21, 2019 Wednesday 6:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 389 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer and Tanya Powley in London
Body
Ryanair lost a High Court bid to block a strike by its British pilots after a judge dismissed the airline’s request for an 
injunction, but the carrier said there would be minimal disruption to passengers ahead of the busy bank holiday 
weekend. 
Europe’s biggest budget carrier had sought an eleventh-hour injunction against the British Airline Pilots’ Association 
(Balpa) union, which had called for strike action on Thursday and Friday this week. Late on Wednesday Balpa 
confirmed that the strike would go ahead
The planned walkout would be the latest in a long-running battle between Ryanair and unions. Ryanair agreed to 
recognise unions in late 2017 but has struggled to reach terms with many of them and was hit with intermittent 
strike action last summer over the issue.
Ryanair said it “regretted” the court’s decision, adding that it still expected to operate its full schedule of flights to 
and from UK airports. It cautioned, however, that it could not rule out some “small flight delays and/or flight 
changes”.
Balpa said in a statement that it would offer an “olive branch” to Ryanair that could avert strike action, “a framework 
to allow constructive negotiations to take place and if agreed by Ryanair will avoid the need for strikes”.
Ryanair loses legal bid to block pilots’ strike
“Ryanair was foolish to bring this into the high court rather than the negotiating room,” said Brian Strutton, Balpa 
general secretary, adding that the union had offered to meet the airline’s management to negotiate a resolution “but 
instead they attempted a legal bludgeon”.
Pilots, he added, were “seeking the same kind of policies and agreements that exist in other airlines – our demands 
are not unreasonable”.
“We hope that Ryanair will take up our offer of a way forward this evening so we can call off this action.”
Ryanair said the decision to strike had been made by “less than 30 per cent of our highly paid UK pilots” in support 
of “unreasonable pay demands”. 
Earlier on Wednesday, Ryanair was granted an injunction to stop a strike planned by its Irish-based pilots. The Irish 
high court granted the injunction, halting strike action planned by 180 Ryanair pilots who are members of the Irish 
Air Line Pilots’ Association. The court had agreed with legal arguments presented by Ryanair that the union had not 
allowed for a mediation process to be completed before calling the strike. 
Load-Date: August 22, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair loses legal bid to block pilots’ strike
Ryanair loses legal bid to block pilots’ strike
 
FT.com
August 21, 2019 Wednesday 6:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 389 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer and Tanya Powley in London
Body
Ryanair lost a High Court bid to block a strike by its British pilots after a judge dismissed the airline’s request for an 
injunction, but the carrier said there would be minimal disruption to passengers ahead of the busy bank holiday 
weekend. 
Europe’s biggest budget carrier had sought an eleventh-hour injunction against the British Airline Pilots’ Association 
(Balpa) union, which had called for strike action on Thursday and Friday this week. Late on Wednesday Balpa 
confirmed that the strike would go ahead
The planned walkout would be the latest in a long-running battle between Ryanair and unions. Ryanair agreed to 
recognise unions in late 2017 but has struggled to reach terms with many of them and was hit with intermittent 
strike action last summer over the issue.
Ryanair said it “regretted” the court’s decision, adding that it still expected to operate its full schedule of flights to 
and from UK airports. It cautioned, however, that it could not rule out some “small flight delays and/or flight 
changes”.
Balpa said in a statement that it would offer an “olive branch” to Ryanair that could avert strike action, “a framework 
to allow constructive negotiations to take place and if agreed by Ryanair will avoid the need for strikes”.
Ryanair loses legal bid to block pilots’ strike
“Ryanair was foolish to bring this into the high court rather than the negotiating room,” said Brian Strutton, Balpa 
general secretary, adding that the union had offered to meet the airline’s management to negotiate a resolution “but 
instead they attempted a legal bludgeon”.
Pilots, he added, were “seeking the same kind of policies and agreements that exist in other airlines – our demands 
are not unreasonable”.
“We hope that Ryanair will take up our offer of a way forward this evening so we can call off this action.”
Ryanair said the decision to strike had been made by “less than 30 per cent of our highly paid UK pilots” in support 
of “unreasonable pay demands”. 
Earlier on Wednesday, Ryanair was granted an injunction to stop a strike planned by its Irish-based pilots. The Irish 
high court granted the injunction, halting strike action planned by 180 Ryanair pilots who are members of the Irish 
Air Line Pilots’ Association. The court had agreed with legal arguments presented by Ryanair that the union had not 
allowed for a mediation process to be completed before calling the strike. 
Load-Date: August 25, 2019
End of Document
Offsetting Flugscham. Private jets edition
Offsetting Flugscham. Private jets edition
 
FT.com
August 21, 2019 Wednesday
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 440 words
Byline: Claire Jones
Body
Regular readers may recall Alphaville writing about our  battle with Flugscham, a German term based on the 
Swedish phrase ‘Flygskam’ used to express guilt about frequent flying.
It turns out the super rich are just like the rest of us, grappling with the same problems only at slightly higher 
altitudes.
Take Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, who faced a  tabloid furore over their use of a private jet to fly from the UK 
to Nice for a short break at Sir Elton John’s pad. Sir Elton was quick to inform the haters that his environmentally 
conscious guests had, like Alphaville, offset their carbon footprint through a donation he had made on their behalf to 
a company that claims to do things that help the environment to exactly the same degree that you have destroyed it 
by flying.
As we said in our original post, we are suspicious that such donations (in our case €1 to Ryanair) would change our 
behaviour. And while we don’t know exactly how much Sir Elton donated, Alphaville reckons just shy of £50 
should’ve done the job -- not a sum that is likely to make the super rich think twice. 
The thought that these carbon offset tools were just gimmicks to cleanse the conscience of the frequent flyer left us 
feeling glum. But thankfully it turns out that we have been thinking about it totally the wrong way round and flying 
more often can actually benefit the environment.
Offsetting Flugscham. Private jets edition
Private jet company Victor tells us that, rather than trying to rethink our reliance on aeroplanes, we ought to  ‘fly with 
purpose’ by offsetting our carbon footprint by 200 per cent, 400 per cent or -- if our Flugscham is really playing up -- 
even 800 per cent. 
Apparently going for the basic 200 per cent option will add just 0.3 per cent to the booking cost. So for a flight of 
£20,000, that’s just £60. Bargain! 
The idea is that with this £60, Victor will either invest in projects, or buy carbon credits, that will offset your carbon 
cost of flying. But we think there is a problem with the logic that offsetting more than your “fair” share of carbon is 
sustainable in the long run. 
We operate in a world of scarce resources and that applies to offsetting carbon footprints too. We can’t fly as much 
as we like and hope to undo the damage by planting more trees in Zambia (one of the projects Victor supports) 
because there is only a limited amount of surface on which trees can be planted. And more to the point, wouldn’t 
planting trees plus not flying as much be even more effective in a global economy that is still increasing its annual 
fossil fuel demand?
Anyway, more radical action like outright bans on private jets also bring with it some fringe benefits...
Load-Date: August 21, 2019
End of Document
G7 summit, Jackson Hole, Italian no-confidence vote
G7 summit, Jackson Hole, Italian no-confidence vote
 
FT.com
August 18, 2019 Sunday 1:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1453 words
Body
Much of this week will be dominated by the run-up to the Group of Seven summit in the French seaside town of 
Biarritz, where the heads of the leading global economies will gather this coming weekend.
The Fed will also get a fair slice of attention over the next few days. The minutes of its July meeting — when it cut 
rates for the first time since 2008 — are out on Wednesday. The next day the central bank hosts its annual 
economic symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, where chair Jay Powell is among those scheduled to speak. The 
minutes from the last European Central Bank meeting are also due on Thursday.
Tensions are likely to remain high in Hong Kong as pro-democracy protests continue in defiance of Beijing. Italy has 
a no-confidence vote to look forward to and events are scheduled across eastern Europe to mark the first breaches 
in the Soviet Iron Curtain 30 years ago as communism began to crumble. 
The second of five trials for former Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak on charges linked to a multibillion-dollar 
scandal at state fund 1MDB is due to begin on Monday.
It is a quiet week for economic data and on the companies front earnings season is drawing to a close, but the 
remaining updates from US retailers should offer more insight on consumer spending, while the travel sector faces 
holiday disruption with strikes at Ryanair. 
G7 summit
The main topics at this year’s summit are likely to be the  Iran nuclear accord, the taxation of big multinationals, 
including tech giants such as Google and Facebook, and of course Brexit. 
G7 summit, Jackson Hole, Italian no-confidence vote
The summit will provide Boris Johnson, the UK’s new prime minister, with his first run out under the global spotlight. 
Germany last week pointed to the likelihood of Mr Johnson using the summit for a “big moment” to announce either 
a breakthrough or breakdown in talks on Britain leaving the UK. 
Downing Street sources also believe that Mr Johnson’s first appearance on the world stage will be critical to his 
Brexit strategy. 
Mr Johnson has not visited any European capitals since becoming prime minister, and this is also being interpreted 
by many in the EU of a sign of his determination to steer towards a no-deal Brexit. 
The prime minister has alarmed European leaders by insisting the backstop, aimed at preventing the return of a 
hard border in Ireland, must be scrapped. Unless the EU backs down, he has said the UK will leave the bloc by 
October 31, with or without a deal.
Ahead of the summit, Emmanuel Macron will hold talks with Russian president Vladimir Putin at Brégançon fort on 
Monday, where the French president is spending his summer holidays. The two leaders are likely to discuss Iran’s 
nuclear activities, Ukraine and Libya. Strong business and trade ties make Paris one of Moscow’s key partners in 
Europe despite years of sour relations between Russia and the west.
Background reading
● Emmanuel Macron to tackle Vladimir Putin on Ukraine crisis
Justin Trudeau, Canada’s prime minister, is also due to give a speech on foreign affairs in Paris on Wednesday.
Italy
Italian prime minister Giuseppe Conte will address the country’s upper house of parliament on the government 
crisis on Tuesday, where he faces a no-confidence vote on the same day. 
Matteo Salvini, Italy’s deputy prime minister and leader of Italy’s co-ruling rightwing League party, introduced a 
motion of no confidence in the prime minister after the anti-establishment Five Star movement voted against a 
cherished League rail project, leaving the alliance between the League party and Five Star close to collapse. Mr 
Salvini has also called for snap elections in October.
The relationship between the two governing parties has become increasingly tense in recent weeks after clashing 
over a series of policies including greater autonomy for the regions, justice reforms, motorway concessions and 
plans to boost public spending.
If Mr Conte loses the vote, President Sergio Mattarella may hold consultations to determine if a new government 
coalition can be formed. If those talks fail, Mr Mattarella could alternatively seek to form a caretaker government.
The renewed political uncertainty in Italy has ensnared Europe’s third-largest economy. News of Mr Salvini’s call for 
a no-confidence vote and new elections sent yields on government debt sharply higher, though they have since 
retraced those gains. The outcome of the vote could have implications for global markets amid existing economic 
jitters.
Central banks
The minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee’s July policy meeting, due on Wednesday, will provide 
background to the thought process behind the US Federal Reserve’s first rate cut since 2008. 
Eric Rosengren, president of the Boston Fed, and Esther George, president of the Kansas City Fed, voted against 
the cut, citing employment gains and other signs of enduring strength in the economy.
G7 summit, Jackson Hole, Italian no-confidence vote
The minutes are likely to reinforce the idea that risk management considerations are a key reason the FOMC 
moved towards policy easing.
The ECB will on Thursday publish an account of its July policy meeting when it paved the way for rate cuts in the 
coming months by changing its forward guidance to say that it expected rates to remain “at their present or lower 
levels” at least through the first half of 2020.
Investors will be on the alert for any further signs the central bank could introduce a stimulus package at its next 
meeting in September.
The Fed minutes could, however, start to seem a little stale by the time the Jackson Hole symposium opens on 
Thursday and investors get a glimpse into the current thinking. All eyes will be on Jay Powell when he speaks on 
Friday.
The gathering’s theme this year is Challenges for Monetary Policy, and Markets Questions this week points out that 
it is a fitting one, as central banks keep cutting rates in a bid to stir activity as a mounting pile of negative-yielding 
debt — adding up to almost $17tn — indicates profound gloominess over the state of the world economy. 
A quarter-point interest rate cut is fully priced in for September, but it is not clear what it would take to push officials 
to restart quantitative easing.
Some analysts expect no firm commitments from Mr Powell and for markets, which are pricing in an additional 65 
basis points of cuts this year, to be disappointed. Others argue we could see another pivot from a Fed that has 
recently wrongfooted investors with its messaging.
Elsewhere, Egypt, the Middle East’s fastest-growing economy, is forecast to cut its deposit rate by 100 basis points 
to 14.75 per cent on Thursday.
Earnings
An upbeat report on US retail sales last week soothed some fears on consumer spending. This week, updates from 
Home Depot, Lowe’s, Target, Kohl’s, TJX and others will provide further insight.
Chinese search engine operator Baidu is expected to report a fall of more than 70 per cent in second-quarter profit 
on Monday.
BHP, the world’s largest mining group reports on Monday. Global growth fears, the US-China trade spat and a 
slowdown in Chinese construction activity have weighed on the group, which has already led to forecasts being 
revised down after a mixed production update in July. 
Fellow miner Antofagasta reports on Thursday, when it will hope to benefit from recent increases in copper 
production.
Irish building materials supplier CRH reports on Thursday, when it is expected to announce another £350m share 
buyback after agreeing the sale of its European distribution unit to Blackstone in a deal worth €1.6bn.
Housebuilder Persimmon reports on Tuesday as it tries to bolster its reputation after complaints about poor build 
quality.
Also reporting this week will be Non-Standard Finance — which abandoned its battle to buy rival Provident 
Financial in June — Laura Ashley, online gambling software provider Playtech and infrastructure investor John 
Laing Group.
Economic data
G7 summit, Jackson Hole, Italian no-confidence vote
Key reports this week include existing and new home sales in the US. Canada releases consumer prices data, 
along with June retail sales and manufacturing numbers before its second-quarter gross domestic product estimate 
the following week.
Investors will focus on Mexico’s early-August inflation data on Thursday to assess whether the easing cycle might 
continue in September after the first cut in interest rates in five years.
Economists are braced for inflation data out of Japan on Friday, which they expect to remain stuck at a two-year 
low of 0.6 per cent — no closer to the central bank’s long-elusive target of 2 per cent.
Monthly flash purchasing managers’ indices are out in the eurozone, Germany and France. German manufacturing 
is likely to be of particular interest after its economy contracted in the second quarter.
Second-quarter GDP numbers are also due from Mexico, Chile and Peru.
Load-Date: September 2, 2019
End of Document
Norwegian Air to end flights between Ireland and US
Norwegian Air to end flights between Ireland and US
 
FT.com
August 13, 2019 Tuesday 5:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 418 words
Byline: Richard Milne in Oslo and Janina Conboye in London
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle is scaling back its transatlantic ambitions as the struggling low-cost airline ends its services 
between Ireland and the US. 
The carrier said on Tuesday that it would stop flying from Dublin, Cork and Shannon to the US and Canada from 
September 15. 
It blamed the grounding of Boeing’s 737 Max aircraft after two fatal crashes for making the routes “no longer 
commercially viable”. 
It marks the first big retreat from Norwegian’s rapid and expensive push into the long-haul sector. The low-cost 
airline had hoped to shake up the industry by using new aircraft such as the 737 Max and Boeing’s Dreamliner to fly 
to lesser-known US destinations from regional airports in Europe. 
Under pressure from investors worried that its rapid expansion could spell financial collapse, Norwegian has 
reversed course in recent months, saying it would no longer prioritise growth but would aim for better profitability. It 
also raised fresh capital and replaced its chief executive and chairman, who together are also the airline’s biggest 
shareholder. 
“We take a strict approach to route management and constantly evaluate route performance to ensure we meet 
customer demand. Compounded by the global grounding of the 737 Max and the continued uncertainty of its return 
Norwegian Air to end flights between Ireland and US
to service, this has led us to make the difficult decision to discontinue all six routes from Dublin, Cork and Shannon 
to the US and Canada,” said Matthew Wood, senior vice-president for long-haul commercial. 
Norwegian’s route closures come after Ryanair last month said it was facing 900 job cuts after the low-cost airline 
said it would cut flights next summer and potentially close some European bases as a result of the grounding of the 
737 Max, which is delaying the delivery of 737 Max 200s.
Norwegian last year stopped transatlantic flights from Edinburgh and Belfast but kept them from its three other Irish 
airports to New York Stewart, Providence and Hamilton-Toronto. 
The low-cost airline said it was in negotiations with pilots and cabin crew in Dublin “to ensure that redundancies 
remain a last resort”. It will continue to fly to Oslo, Stockholm and Copenhagen from the Irish capital. 
Analysts have long expressed doubts on Norwegian’s ability to crack the lucrative transatlantic market due to the 
already high competition. Europe’s third-largest low-cost airline behind Ryanair and EasyJet has been hit by a 
series of technical issues on its long-distance routes that led to cancellations and passengers stranded for days.
Load-Date: August 14, 2019
End of Document
Offsetting Flugscham
Offsetting Flugscham
 
FT.com
August 9, 2019 Friday
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 600 words
Byline: Claire Jones
Body
In German there’s even a word for it.  Flugscham is a term coined to capture the feeling of guilt one encounters 
when flying, all too aware of the damage it does to the climate. 
Alphaville knows the feeling well. Yet we still succumb too easily to the twin forces of convenience and cognitive 
dissonance, and fly regularly without putting enough thought into greener alternatives.
It’s what filmmaker Adam Curtis would call the  “Oh Dearism” of modern liberal life. We are exposed to all sorts of 
scary things, but feel there is not much that we can do about it, which leaves us feeling ineffectual and depressed -- 
and our behaviour unchanged.
So it’s nice of Ryanair to make us feel better about ourselves by offering Alphaville an option to offset our carbon 
footprint in the form of a €1 donation that can be added to the cost of a flight:
This gave us a nice little harmonious buzz the first time we did it. But on successive occasions Alphaville became 
more suspicious, and the feeling of Flugscham returned.
Most of us are well aware that airlines are spurting out ever greater amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere 
as the number of flights made each year rises higher and higher. But is asking people to voluntarily contribute to 
what amounts to a jet-setter’s equivalent of a swear jar really going to save the planet by making us fly less, or just 
momentarily cleanse our liberal consciences?
Offsetting Flugscham
When Alphaville asked Ryanair’s press office what the deal was, we were told that the scheme was there so we 
could “offset the carbon cost of their flight by making a voluntary donation to a climate charity at the end of the 
booking process.” The airline, which says it is “Europe’s greenest” due to its relatively young fleet of aircraft and low 
amounts of empty seats, has chosen four environmental charities in locations such as Portugal and Uganda. It  
claimed the scheme raised €1m last year and will raise €1m again in 2019. 
Which is all well and good. But when asked about why Ryanair thought such a small amount was enough to offset 
passengers’ carbon footprint or why the scheme was not compulsory (Alphaville was surprised to learn just two per 
cent of people  tick the box), the press office was reluctant to answer saying that it plans “to announce an update on 
our environmental efforts next month”.
Alphaville is unconvinced that such a small a voluntary donation is enough to have a meaningful impact. And of 
course, it’s not in Ryanair’s interests for us to fly less. 
Far more punitive ideas to atone for Alphaville’s Flugscham are out there, however, such as  this from today’s FT 
letters’ page: 
Here’s a way for the UK to lead: charge individuals at an increasing rate for each trip in any calendar year 
taken from a UK airport. A modest levy for the first flight would be, say, 5 per cent of the fare. That would 
ensure social justice. But this percentage would double for every successive journey. Taxpayers would have a 
duty to declare their flights to HM Revenue & Customs which would be tasked to make random checks. 
Frequent flyers would think carefully about taking multiple flights.
As former FT-er Duncan Robinson  pointed out, the idea has a back of the fag packet feel to it. Still we’d hazard a 
guess that a tax like this is much more likely to alter our behaviour and stop Alphaville flying so much.
The fix is also neat in that it speaks to a truth about climate change -- that the bulk of the damage is done by a 
relatively small group of repeat offenders. Rather like smoking, one flight isn’t going to destroy the planet. Smoke 
enough, however, and it’s deadly. 
Load-Date: August 9, 2019
End of Document
Why I’ll pay extra for holiday travel perks
Why I’ll pay extra for holiday travel perks
 
FT.com
August 2, 2019 Friday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1065 words
Byline: Merryn Somerset Webb
Body
I have given in. Surrendered. Capitulated completely. To Ryanair. 
Like many of you, I have been living in a state of almost constant warfare against the budget airline pretty much 
since its inception. Yet I can’t quite stop travelling with them. 
I live in the north and we don’t get the same choice of carrier you get down south. If I want to go to Rome on any 
given day in the summer, for example, odds are I either go on Ryanair or via somewhere I don’t much want to go. 
But I also have hideous memories of being left in boiling hot information-free corridors with small babies in Malaga. I 
can’t quite forget the time I forgot my boarding pass and had to pay an insane amount of cash to get it reissued at 
the airport. I can’t erase the misery of not making it to the front of the queue to board, back when you didn’t get an 
allocated seat, and having to ask the entire plane to Rubik’s Cube themselves around to get to sit next to my own 
kids. 
And if I type Ryanair into my inbox, much of what comes up is failed attempts to get compensation for a lengthy 
delay in 2015. All this has long made it impossible for me to give the airline a penny more than I have to. Think no 
priority boarding, no luggage, no pre-booked seats and most definitely no Pringles on board. Ever. Until now. 
Why? I still loathe Ryanair’s nasty system of making you pay extra for seats if you want to check in long enough in 
advance to print the boarding passes for your return flights before you embark on the outbound leg of your holiday. 
Why I’ll pay extra for holiday travel perks
And I resent the general luggage confusion and costs. But I have finally realised that my own peace of mind is more 
important than a battle the budget airlines don’t even know I am waging. 
So I buy the advance seat reservations. Both ways. I pay for whatever luggage means I won’t feel tense on the way 
to the gate — even if I end up with less than I booked. And while priority boarding still seems stupid (considering 
you’ve paid to book a seat with guaranteed cabin bag) I also now happily pay for fast track security. It costs £5 per 
head to not have to queue or (crucially) worry about time spent queueing. On a hot Friday, this can feel like 
something of a bargain. As, for that matter, can a few packets of Pringles bought on board to give everyone a break 
from playing Uno.
It isn’t just the budget airlines I have given in to. My surrender extends to car hire. After a nightmarish time with 
Goldcar a few years ago, I no longer ever go budget (here I do have a choice). I don’t want to walk a mile to a desk 
outside the arrivals terminal, and I don’t want to spend the two weeks after my holiday arguing about a £350 charge 
for a slow puncture. 
I also don’t want to rent cars from companies that partner with the budget airlines I have to fly with — why stand in a 
queue with everyone else who just got off my flight? Instead I have upgraded to Hertz Gold and Avis Preferred (this 
is free to do). They have all my details in their systems already. Once I’ve booked online, all I have to do is turn up 
and go (you mostly get to jump any queue there is, or even skip the terminal desk and head straight for the car 
park). 
This matters more at some airports than others — yes, Toulouse, I am talking about you. At Bristol airport last 
week, I had the keys in my hand after one quick flash of my driving licence. From landing in my pre-booked EasyJet 
seat to reversing out of my parking space took around 20 minutes. Bliss. You also get an automatic upgrade if one 
is available. 
The big car rental firms are far from perfect, but they are certainly more satisfactory than some of the less well 
known. The last time I rented a car from Hertz, it had a dent in the side already. I had a tangle with a gate post and 
made that dent rather worse. They didn’t charge me. Others would have. Indeed, they often have. 
Hence my final travel capitulation — to American Express — which covers all my travel insurances. A good 70 per 
cent of people believe they are better than average drivers. I am not one of those people. My platinum Amex covers 
all travel insurance (note: not anything related to pre-existing medical conditions) and all excess on car hire. 
I’ve used the latter. I called them. They sorted it, with almost no admin involved. You can, of course, buy standalone 
excess policies for around £50 a year from a variety of firms and travel insurance too, but for me that’s just another 
thing either to forget or feel tense about. 
Otherwise, there are credit cards and packaged bank accounts that come with insurance. Which?, the consumer 
group, has just done a survey of all of them. The top offer comes from Nationwide with its FlexPlus account — 
travel insurance, mobile phone cover and breakdown cover for £156 a year. 
Second is First Direct’s First Directory account — all of the above but with a higher mobile claim limit (£1,500) for 
£180 a year, although you do have to put £1,000 a month into the account to get the benefits. As an extra, the 
platinum Amex also comes with two priority passes, each of which let two people into most airport lounges.
This is the kind of thing I would have dismissed as a pointless luxury a few years ago. No more. I travel a lot with 
my husband and children. They are always hungry. We could queue at Costa and spend £25 a go (feeling stressed 
as everyone’s blood sugar collapses). Or we could go into the lounge and not queue, not spend £25 and not feel 
stressed. 
Finally, the card allows me to call or email the platinum travel people and get them to book my rental cars and 
hotels for me. That helps too. I have nightmares about forgetting to book my car with my Amex, crashing and not 
being insured. Get Amex to do the booking and that can’t happen. 
Why I’ll pay extra for holiday travel perks
It’s expensive — really expensive — at £450 a year and is soon to rise to £575. But as you might have begun to 
grasp, it is the kind of expensive that if used extensively translates into value. Or value to me anyway. No one 
enjoyed travelling with me during the long war of travel attrition. Things are better now I see travelling as part of the 
trip rather than as a penny-pinching battle around the trip. See you in the lounge.
Merryn Somerset Webb is editor-in-chief of MoneyWeek. Views are personal. . Twitter:  @MerrynSW 
Merryn Somerset Webb will be appearing at the Edinburgh Fringe in  her show The Butcher, the Brewer, the Baker 
and the Commentator from August 17-25
Load-Date: August 6, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair faces 900 job losses after grounding of Boeing Max jet
Ryanair faces 900 job losses after grounding of Boeing Max jet
 
FT.com
July 31, 2019 Wednesday 5:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 483 words
Byline: Janina Conboye
Body
Ryanair is facing 900 job cuts after the low-cost airline said it will cut flights next summer and potentially close some 
European bases as a result of the grounding of Boeing’s 737 Max jet.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of the Irish low-cost carrier, told staff that it has 500 more pilots and 400 more 
cabin crew than required with job losses due to be announced in the next few weeks. 
The latest setback comes after the carrier announced a 24 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in the first quarter of the 
year amid increasingly tough conditions in the European short-haul market. 
Mr O’Leary, who warned of the job cuts at Monday’s results announcement, revealed the depth of the problems in a 
video to staff, with 10 per cent of the company’s pilots facing the axe out of a total of about 5,500 pilots. 
Ryanair’s total staff number was 16,800 in the year to March 31, according to the company’s annual report, which 
was released on Tuesday. 
Mr O’Leary added that problems were not helped by the low numbers of staff leaving the company. This follows pay 
deals after moves to unionise the group. “Resignations have dried up to effectively zero since January 2019,” he 
said in the video.
He also warned that the threat of a no-deal Brexit was adding to the airline’s problems. “Adding to these challenges 
in the last number of weeks is the increasing likelihood of a no-deal Brexit in just 12 weeks time,” he said. 
Ryanair faces 900 job losses after grounding of Boeing Max jet
This could be damaging to the group’s UK and some Irish bases, which are “heavily dependent on people travelling 
between Ireland and the UK”.
Mr O’Leary is starting discussions with its airports to determine which of its underperforming or lossmaking bases 
would take a hit as it makes cuts to bases and routes because of the possible delay to deliveries of 737 Max 200s, 
a variant of the 737 Max 8 aircraft. 
While Mr O’Leary still expects to take 30 aircraft — of an original 58 — by next May, he warned that this could be 
reduced, depending on when the Max jet is certified to fly.
The shortfall led the airline to reduce the number of passengers it expects to carry in the year to March 2021 to 
157m, from the 162m previously forecast.
Mr O’Leary has also agreed to take a 50 per cent cut in base pay to €500,000 a year in a new five-year contract 
that started on April 1, according the company’s annual report. 
Additionally, he will take a 50 per cent cut to his maximum annual bonus, which will reach a maximum of €500,000. 
The airline chief was criticised after it was revealed earlier this year that he could be in line for a €100m bonus. 
The UK-listed airline issued options for 10m shares to Mr O’Leary at a strike price of €11.12, which he can buy 
should he increase the company’s profitability to €2bn and/or its share price to €21 over the next five years.
If Mr O’Leary increases Ryanair’s profitability to €2bn but the share price does not hit €21, his bonus would be 
smaller.
Load-Date: August 1, 2019
End of Document
Lufthansa second quarter earnings fall on Europe market weakness
Lufthansa second quarter earnings fall on Europe market weakness
 
FT.com
July 30, 2019 Tuesday 5:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 414 words
Byline: Daniel Shane in Hong Kong and Janina Conboye in London
Body
Lufthansa’s second quarter earnings slumped amid rising competition and weak demand in Europe’s air travel 
market, as it warned that prospects for the industry will likely remain challenging throughout 2019.
The German carrier said in a statement on Tuesday that its adjusted earnings before interest and tax for the period 
fell 25 per cent year on year to €754m. Adjusted Ebit margin fell from 10.8 per cent to 7.8 per cent, while revenue 
rose 4 per cent to €9.6bn.
Adjusted Ebit losses at its low-cost  Eurowings division, which has been hampered by the acquisition of some of the 
operations of bankrupt Air Berlin, came in at €16m during the quarter.
“Our earnings are feeling the effects of tough competition in Europe and sizeable overcapacities, especially on our 
short-haul routes out of Germany and Austria,” said Ulrik Svensson, chief financial officer. “We are responding to 
this by further reducing our costs and increasing our flexibility. And with the turnaround plan which we recently 
presented, we also intend to make Eurowings a sustainably profitable airline.”
Lufthansa unveiled a turnround plan in June for Eurowings after announcing its second  profit warning this 
year. Lufthansa wants to cut costs at its struggling subsidiary by 15 per cent by 2022 and warned on Tuesday that 
“risks of second-half year business trends falling short of their first-half year levels have increased”.
Lufthansa second quarter earnings fall on Europe market weakness
However, the company maintained its outlook for the rest of the year of an adjusted Ebit margin of 5.5 per cent to 
6.5 per cent. It expects Eurowings to report an adjusted Ebit margin of minus 4 per cent to minus 6 per cent for the 
full year. 
Analysts at Bernstein said: "As we move into peak summer, messages of a tough environment continuing should 
leave investors cautious on demand for the rest of 2019."
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said in a note that with neither Lufthansa nor Ryanair showing any sign of backing 
down from the ongoing fare war in the German short haul market, short-term earnings headwinds will continue. 
He added that the services divisions are supposed to provide more stable earnings, but their performances appear 
to be under pressure too. "A full or partial disposal of the catering division is long overdue, but this could be a 
positive catalyst if a transaction is concluded," he said. 
Europe’s short-haul market has been plagued by intense competition and softening demand. Lufthansa’s shares 
have fallen around 30 per cent since the end of January.
Load-Date: July 30, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair warns of tough trading conditions as profits slide
Ryanair warns of tough trading conditions as profits slide
 
FT.com
July 29, 2019 Monday 5:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 455 words
Byline: Janina Conboye in London and Daniel Shane in Hong Kong
Body
Ryanair warned of the tough trading conditions in the European short-haul market on Monday as the Irish low-cost 
carrier reported a 24 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in the first quarter of the year.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, said some competitors were too optimistic going into winter and speculated more 
airlines could go bust.
“There will be more failures this winter,” he said, suggesting that Norwegian Air Shuttle’s collapse is “a distinct 
possibility” come October or November.
Damien Brewer, analyst at RBC, said “a poor summer profit reserve and winter costs will probably continue the 
industry shakeout”. 
Brexit is also a concern for Ryanair as Britain’s impending exit from the EU weighs on consumer spending. 
While Mr O’Leary said the airline was in “pretty good shape” to deal with Brexit, he cautioned that further negative 
effects “can’t be ruled out” because of the lack of clarity over how Britain’s negotiations with the EU will unfold.
The airline also faced pressure in Germany, a key market, where Lufthansa’s acquisition of Air Berlin has led to 
increased competition.
Ryanair said that its pre-tax profit for the three months to the end of June came in at €262.3m versus €345.4m a 
year ago. Analysts had forecast a smaller fall of 16 per cent in pre-tax profit, according to Refinitiv.
Ryanair warns of tough trading conditions as profits slide
But despite a 6 per cent fall in average fares during the quarter, this was partly offset by a 14 per cent higher take in 
ancillary services, which includes baggage fees and on-board food.
Total revenue during the period was up 11 per cent year on year to €2.31bn, while traffic rose 11 per cent to 42m 
passengers.
Ryanair maintained its profit after tax for the full financial year at €750m to €950m — broadly flat compared with its 
previous annual performance. The airline said pressure on ticket prices had carried on into the second quarter, 
which includes the important summer period.
Ryanair announced earlier this month that it will cut flights next summer and close some European bases as the 
prolonged grounding of Boeing’s 737 Max jets would delay the delivery of its orders.
While Mr O’Leary still expects to take 30 aircraft — of an original 58 — by next May, he warned that this could be 
reduced, depending on when the Max jet is certified to fly. 
Mr Brewer added that the recent grounding by US carrier Southwest of the 737 Max into 2020 suggested that 
Ryanair’s 2020/2021 growth plan “could yet be revised down further”.
Intense competition and softening demand plagues the European short-haul market.
In June, Lufthansa issued its second profit warning this year. Earlier this month, Norwegian Air Shuttle reported that 
net profits fell to NKr82.8m ($9.6m) in the second quarter, from NKr300m a year earlier.
Load-Date: July 30, 2019
End of Document
Opening Quote: Takeaway.com plans to gobble up rival Just Eat
Opening Quote: Takeaway.com plans to gobble up rival Just Eat
 
FT.com
July 29, 2019 Monday 8:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1081 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
In any other week, the £9bn-plus potential tie-up between Just Eat and its Dutch rival Takeaway.com would be the 
UK deal everyone was talking about. But coming as it does in the wake of Friday's  blockbuster FT scoop that 
the London Stock Exchange is in talks to buy data and trading venue group Refinitiv for $27bn, including debt, the 
food delivery deal no longer looks quite so tasty. 
Still, this morning what we have is an  update from Just Eat and Takeaway.com on the terms of their possible deal 
(not yet a formal offer, usual health warnings about no certainty a transaction will happen apply — though they 
give a lot of detail). 
So to give them their moment in the limelight, here it is: an all-share deal which applies a 15 per cent premium to 
Just Eat's closing price on Friday, handing its shareholders 52.2 per cent of the combined company. The London-
listing remains, but the combined company headquarters, domicile and place of incorporation shift to Amsterdam. 
The chairmanship goes to Just Eat's Mike Evans, Jitse Groen of Takeaway.com gets the chief executive spot. Just 
Eat shares opened up 25 per cent on Monday.
But if you'd rather read about the LSE, whose shares rose 7 per cent on Monday morning, and it's efforts to 
transform itself into a data behemoth to rival Bloomberg: check out this excellent analysis  here. 
Briefly 
Opening Quote: Takeaway.com plans to gobble up rival Just Eat
Two bits of Neil Woodford-related news this morning. First, the board of Woodford Patient Capital Trust has 
confirmed it is considering a change in management that could see  Woodford dropped from the listed investment 
trust that bears his name. The board has already held “preliminary discussions with select management groups” 
that approached it about ongoing management, but now intends to engage with a broader range of third-party 
managers about its options. Secondly, Woodford has sold about 60 per cent of his holding in the trust to meet 
“personal financial obligations”, including a tax bill. 
Sports Direct's shares plunged 20 per cent this morning after Friday's chaotic results, delayed for hours and 
eventually published after market closed because of issues around a  Belgian tax bill. The debacle has  prompted a 
call for more resources to be devoted to corporate governance at the founder-controlled company. 
In more normal programming, Ryanair and shopping centre landlord Hammerson both have results out, as 
does Reach, the news group. Profits at the low-cost airline  fell 24 per cent in the first quarter of the year amid 
tough competition and Brexit effects. Revenues from baggage fees and on-board food climbed 14 per cent, helping 
offset a smaller percentage fall in average fares. At Hammerson, the pain being felt on the UK high street was all 
too plain. Revaluations in its portfolio dragged it to a £320m loss for the first half of the year, with net rental income 
down 12 per cent to £147m. Reach, which owns the Express, swung to a profit after a challenging year. 
Job moves 
Reach has a new chief executive. Jim Mullen, most recently chief executive of Ladbroke Coral (now part of GVC) 
will take over from Simon Fox next month. Previous roles for Mullen include director of product management and 
digital strategy at News International, and eleven years in advertising. 
With Sports Direct's delayed results on Friday came the news its finance director, Jon Kempster, has had 
enough. He will step down at the group's AGM with deputy CFO Chris Wootton taking over from September 12. Mr 
Kempster leaves to “pursue other interests”. 
We're looking to feature more job moves. If you're in senior management and moving jobs or you know 
someone who is, let us know about it at 
Markets speed-read 
Global stocks have made a cautious start to the week ahead of the hotly anticipated US monetary policy meeting on 
Tuesday, as hopes of a larger-than-usual 50 basis point cut from the Federal Reserve appeared faint. The Europe-
wide Stoxx 600 slipped 0.2 per cent in opening trade, as did Frankfurt’s Xetra Dax 30, while London’s FTSE 100 
rose 0.1 per cent. The UK index was helped by a renewed two-year low for the pound, which drifted down by a 
further 0.2 per cent to its weakest level since April 2017 at $1.2352 as investors continued to track political 
developments over Brexit.
 Sign up here to Market Forces, Mike Mackenzie's daily analysis of what's moving global markets
Beyond the Square Mile 
Deutsche Bank has launched an investigation into whether confidential client data were compromised after it failed 
to deactivate the accounts of dozens of fired staff when it closed its global equities business earlier this month. 
Around 50 traders in the London and New York offices were still able to access the bank’s systems and their emails 
for weeks after the first round of lay-offs started on July 8, according to people briefed on the compliance blunder.  
Full story
Pfizer is expected to announce on Monday that it will combine its off-patent drug business with Mylan, the generics 
drugmaker, which has a market value of $9.5bn, according to people familiar with the matter. Pfizer is then 
expected to spin-off the new unit to create an off-patent and generic medicines business, including former 
blockbuster brands Lipitor and Viagra.  Read more here
Opening Quote: Takeaway.com plans to gobble up rival Just Eat
China’s shrinking car market is  hitting foreign manufacturing groups like Ford and Peugeot-owner PSA hard. 
PSA’s plant with partner Chang’an produced just 102 cars in the first half of the year, while Ford’s plants in China 
operated at just 11 per cent of their potential capacity in the first half of the year, according to a Financial Times 
analysis.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Pilita Clark
Few aspects of office life are more dispiriting than hot-desking, the penny-pinching ploy that strips people of their 
own desk and casts them out to the noisy, chaotic wasteland of shared work spots. But I have discovered an even  
more troubling side to this irksome practice.
Gavyn Davies
At the end of 2018, US and European monetary policymakers were on course to “normalise” monetary policy by 
raising interest. It was widely assumed that Beijing would make significant concessions to the US to reach a 
settlement with the Trump administration on tariffs and technology. Just months later, the policy environment looks 
very different.  Here are three policy themes for the rest of 2019.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: July 29, 2019
End of Document
Frequent flyer: will BA’s new business class seats restore its luxury credentials?
Frequent flyer: will BA’s new business class seats restore its luxury 
credentials?
 
FT.com
July 29, 2019 Monday 1:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 640 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
When, in 1999, British Airways showed me the mock-ups of its new flatbed business class seats, the idea was 
considered so high-class that my write-up appeared in How To Spend It magazine (my first and only appearance in 
the FT’s style bible).
BA had other ideas that seemed wildly futuristic back then. It was going to provide personalised jet-lag advice to its 
high-paying customers. They would tap their details into a palm-held computer that would give them a sleeping, diet 
and exercise programme in the days leading up to their flights. The airline was even trying out electronic books. “It’s 
a novel-book size with a screen,” a BA tech guru told me. Imagine.
What was once innovative becomes ordinary very quickly, and BA’s previously pioneering offerings have been 
looking tired for a while. Many other airlines’ business class sections have for years outclassed BA’s. Particular 
scorn has been directed at BA’s one forward-facing, one backward-facing seat-pairs which, crammed into the cabin, 
mean that window-side travellers have to step over fellow-passengers’ outstretched legs to get to the toilets.
BA’s outmoded business class seats are of a piece with its current positioning, perceived by many travellers as 
slightly ahead of EasyJet and Ryanair and miles behind Emirates and Singapore Airlines. BA has promised a 
refresh, with new planes and fittings, and last week the airline once again showed off new business class seats. 
How do they look? Pretty good. The backward-facing seats have gone. The configuration is one-two-one: a lone 
window seat on either side of the plane, with immediate aisle access, and two seats in the middle.
Frequent flyer: will BA’s new business class seats restore its luxury credentials?
The seat material, a dark wool blend with white stitching, looks classy and feels comfortable. The seat stretches flat 
to reach a footrest that is fixed rather than having to be lowered. Passengers will be allowed to store shoes, or 
anything else, beneath the footrests during take-off and landing, rather than having to clear the floor.
There are several small storage spaces, one with USB and universal plug sockets, another that swings open to 
provide a seat-level mirror. The lighting and seat-pitch controls, on a small-screen panel, look easier to manage 
than the old set-up.
The 18.5-inch video screen is fixed facing the seat, so that it doesn’t have to be swung open and closed. This 
means passengers can watch films from boarding to alighting, without having to fold the screen away. The dining 
tray is stowed beneath the screen and slides out easily to lap level for eating and drinking.
BA seems proudest of the doors that can be closed to seal off each business class seat. This is not a new idea — 
Qatar Airways and Delta Air Lines have doors too — but they add some privacy.
The dividing partitions between the two middle seats are also an improvement. They look more solid than the old 
ones and, best of all, do not have to be lowered during take-off and landing. If two people are travelling together, 
they can still see each other when the partition is down, although they will feel less cosy than in the old BA business 
class. But then everything will feel a little less cosy, which, to most, will be a relief.
The new set-up will appear on four new Airbus A350s that BA will receive this year. The airline will also begin 
retrofitting its Boeing 777s and 787s. (Its 747s are being phased out.) One BA A350 will make flights from London 
to Madrid from August 5, before the new seats make their long-haul debut to Dubai in September. 
Will the seats return BA to being the world’s favourite airline? Probably not. But at least the one-time pioneer will 
look less of a laggard.
Follow Michael on Twitter  @Skapinker or email him at 
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. Subscribe to             FT Life on YouTube for 
the latest FT Weekend videos
Load-Date: August 12, 2019
End of Document
Summer of strikes and weak sterling as holidays begin
Summer of strikes and weak sterling as holidays begin 
 
FT.com
July 25, 2019 Thursday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1002 words
Byline: Claer Barrett 
Body
British tourists travelling abroad this summer must navigate strike action at the UK’s busiest airports and a  slump in 
sterling as rising fears of a “no deal Brexit” in October put pressure on the pound. 
As millions begin their summer getaway, a series of strikes by airport workers and pilots threaten to cause 
disruption. Travel experts are urging airline customers to be aware of their rights to compensation. 
Unite, the union, said up to 4,000 workers at London’s  Heathrow airport, including security guards and engineers, 
had called off industrial action planned for this weekend so its members could vote on a new pay offer. If agreement 
is not reached, further strikes are planned for August 5, 6, 23 and 24. 
Heathrow said it would implement contingency plans to ensure the airport remained open in the event of any strike 
and recommended passengers flying on these days contacted their airline in the days leading up to their flight to 
check its status. 
At  Gatwick airport, staff including baggage handlers and maintenance staff are voting on whether to take strike 
action this week, raising the potential of strikes from mid-August. 
A planned strike by easyJet check in staff at Stansted airport was  suspended this week while Unite members voted 
on a new pay deal.
Summer of strikes and weak sterling as holidays begin
Thousands of passengers flying with  British Airways  this summer could be affected by strikes planned by pilots in 
a separate dispute over pay. This week, the UK’s flagship carrier failed to obtain an injunction to prevent the strike 
and will now take its case to the Court of Appeal. 
Balpa, the British Airline Pilots Association, confirmed it would not announce strike dates until after the appeal is 
heard, and is required to give two weeks’ notice of industrial action, meaning the earliest a strike could start would 
be August 13. 
The strike would affect flights to and from London Heathrow and Gatwick, but not BA’s CityFlyer services from 
London City Airport. 
BA urged passengers to  check its website for further updates and to ensure that contact details in the “Manage my 
booking” area of the site were up to date. 
Ryanair pilots are separately being balloted for strike action by the Irish Airline Pilots Association but the outcome 
will not be known until August 9. 
Passengers whose travel plans are affected by strike disruption have limited rights to to compensation under EU 
rules governing flight delays, as these are seen as “extraordinary circumstances”. 
 Simon Calder of the BBC’s The Travel Show said European air passengers’ rights rules stipulate compensation of 
€250 to €600 for flights that arrive three hours or more behind schedule.
The payout applies for all flights from an EU airport and for departures from outside Europe on an EU airline.
“The cause of the delay must be within the airline’s control, rather than an ‘extraordinary circumstance’ such as 
weather, a security alert or staff shortages at air-traffic control — a particular problem this summer,” he says.
“Some airlines will readily pay out for delays, but others will defend claims robustly.”
“Whatever the cause of the delay, though, airlines must provide an alternative flight as soon as possible, on a rival 
carrier if need be, as well as meals and accommodation as appropriate while the passenger is stranded.”
Salman Haqqi, personal finance expert at Money.co.uk, added that travellers had more rights to compensation if 
delays were due to an airline’s own staff going on strike. 
“This industrial action is the responsibility of the airline and ‘extraordinary circumstance’ cannot be cited as a 
reason,” he says. 
“If airline staff strike and your flight to or from the UK is cancelled, due to EU regulations, you are entitled to a full 
refund; or an alternative flight to your destination from a nearby airport, with the airline responsible for additional 
travel costs; or an alternative flight on a later date outside the strike period.
“However, this will be scant consolation for many holidaymakers, as the likelihood of being able to book on to an 
alternative flight during this peak period will be slim.
“Check your travel insurance, as you may be able to claim for a cancelled or delayed flight — provided you took the 
policy out before the strikes were announced,” said Mr Haqqi.
Passengers who do manage to jet off would be well advised to avoid changing holiday money at the airport. 
During July, sterling has fallen by about 2 per cent against the dollar, but the pound reached parity against the 
dollar and the euro in most airport exchange booths some time ago, meaning travellers will receive less than €1 or 
$1 for every pound they exchange.
Summer of strikes and weak sterling as holidays begin
A recent study by FairFX, the holiday money specialist, found that exchange rates offered at UK airports were as 
much as 21 per cent lower than the best market rate. Holidaymakers who leave changing money until the last 
minute could lose out by as much as €121 for every £500 exchanged. 
The Post Office warned that tourists using their bank cards abroad could be hit by unexpected charges costing the 
average family £120. UK banks typically charge 3 per cent of the transaction value for overseas card transactions 
and ATM withdrawals. 
Digital challenger banks such as Starling, Monzo and Revolut waive these charges, and have rapid online account 
opening facilities for those about to travel. 
Certain credit cards also offer fee-free spending abroad — although if credit cards are used to withdraw cash from 
an ATM, interest will typically be charged from that day. 
Finally, even travellers savvy enough to get a fee-free card should watch out for chip and pin terminals or 
cashpoints that ask if they want to pay in pounds rather than the local currency. 
Known as “dynamic currency conversion”, this allows the merchant to set the exchange rate.
“It’s unlikely the rate they decide on will be in your favour,” said Ian Strafford-Taylor, chief executive of FairFX. 
A recent investigation by FairFX found that unsuspecting holidaymakers collectively paid out £490m in currency 
conversion fees.
Load-Date: August 2, 2019
End of Document
Wizz Air raises capacity outlook as profits rise
Wizz Air raises capacity outlook as profits rise
 
FT.com
July 25, 2019 Thursday 7:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 340 words
Byline: Janina Conboye in London
Body
Low-cost airline Wizz Air raised its capacity outlook as it delivered strong results for the three months ending June 
30, bucking a recent trend of bad news in the industry.
The airline’s focus on central and eastern Europe has seen it benefit from economic growth in the region, leading to 
strong demand. Pre-tax profits surged 42 per cent to €72.4m in the airline’s first quarter, while passenger numbers 
were up 20 per cent to 10.4m compared with the same period last year. 
The company raised its outlook for capacity growth from 16 per cent to 20 per cent, and said that higher fuel prices 
were supporting a stronger fare environment as weaker carriers withdraw unprofitable capacity. 
Shares rose 4 per cent in early trading. 
Ancillary revenues saw significant growth, up by 41 per cent to €311.9m, while passenger ticket revenue increased 
14.8 per cent to €379.30m.
József Váradi, the chief executive, said that rigorous cost management and strength in both Easter trading and 
ancillary revenue generation helped offset higher fuel prices and said the company maintained its full-year guidance 
of €320m to €350m net profit. 
The airline’s focus on the region puts it in a stronger position to weather the worsening trading conditions of the 
wider European short-haul market. 
Wizz Air raises capacity outlook as profits rise
In June, the German carrier Lufthansa issued its second profit warning this year as it continued to face tough 
competition in its short-haul market. Earlier this month, Norwegian Air Shuttle reported that net profits fell in the 
second quarter. Last week, Ryanair announced it would cut flights next summer due to the grounding of the Boeing 
737 Max jets, which has delayed the delivery of new aircraft.
EasyJet, meanwhile, is managing to navigate intense competition after a strong Easter and a reduction in long 
delays and cancellations had helped boost total revenue to £1.76bn in the three months to June. The British low-
cost carrier said it expected to deliver a profit before tax of between £400m and £440m in the second half, in line 
with market expectations.
Load-Date: July 25, 2019
End of Document
EasyJet hires Ryanair executive as chief operating officer
EasyJet hires Ryanair executive as chief operating officer
 
FT.com
July 18, 2019 Thursday 7:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 379 words
Byline: Janina Conboye
Body
EasyJet has hired rival Ryanair’s operations chief Peter Bellew, a 30-year industry veteran, as it navigates intense 
competition in the European short-haul market. 
The airline announced Mr Bellew’s appointment as chief operating officer alongside a trading update that revealed 
an 11 per cent rise in revenue for the latest quarter.
EasyJet said a strong Easter and a reduction in long delays and cancellations had helped boost total revenue to 
£1.76bn in the three months to June. Passenger revenue rose 10.7 per cent to £1.39bn.
The British low-cost carrier said it expected to deliver a profit before tax of between £400m and £440m in the 
second half, in line with market expectations.
Mr Bellew spent nine years at Ryanair, where he held a number of roles, including director of flight operations, 
before he left for Malaysia Airlines, where he was eventually named chief executive. He rejoined Ryanair in 
December 2017, following a pilot rostering crisis at the Irish carrier that led to the cancellation of 2,000 flights.
Johan Lundgren, chief executive of easyJet, said Mr Bellow had an “exceptional level of experience” in low-cost and 
full-service airlines and was “a great leader with a proven track record in delivering results”.
Conditions in the European airline industry have been worsening after several carriers warned they were facing 
tough trading conditions.
EasyJet hires Ryanair executive as chief operating officer
In June, Lufthansa issued its second profit warning this year as it continued to face tough competition in its short-
haul market. Last week, Norwegian Air Shuttle reported that net profits fell to NKr82.8m ($9.6m) in the second 
quarter, from NKr300m a year earlier. This week, Ryanair announced it would cut flights next summer due to the 
grounding of the Boeing 737 Max jets, which has delayed the delivery of new aircraft.
EasyJet is unaffected because it has an Airbus-only fleet. Its revenue per seat increased slightly in the second 
quarter — from £60.44 to £61.22. 
Mr Lundgren said: “We remain very focused on delivering our revenue initiatives and driving costs down to enhance 
our profitability per seat.” 
Mr Bellew said easyJet had a great product with an enviable position at many of Europe’s primary airports, adding 
that the airline had “always been an innovator among global low cost carriers”.
Load-Date: July 19, 2019
End of Document
Opening Quote: Botched rollout of new warehouses damages Asos’s image
Opening Quote: Botched rollout of new warehouses damages Asos’s image
 
FT.com
July 18, 2019 Thursday 8:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1072 words
Byline: Gordon Smith
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
Asos, the online fashion retailer, has warned that annual profits this year will be almost half what they were 
expected to be after a botched rollout of new warehouses limited the stock available to shoppers.
The profit warning is the latest blow to the former stock market darling whose share price has tumbled over the past 
two years as margins have shrunk and capital spending has increased.
While sales in the UK and Ireland were strong in the four months to the end of June, Asos said business in 
continental Europe and the US was held back by operational issues, following the opening of new warehouses in 
Berlin and Atlanta.
In Berlin the company has struggled with new automation software, which has been overwhelmed by the volume of 
orders, while in Atlanta the group has struggled to build up stock.
Nick Beighton, chief executive, said in a statement to the stock exchange that the company was clear about the 
causes of the business’s problems and was “making progress on resolving them”. 
The shares plunged 20 per cent at the open of trading in London, which is not a good look.
Briefly 
Opening Quote: Botched rollout of new warehouses damages Asos’s image
EasyJet has poached the chief operating officer from low-cost rival Ryanair. Peter Bellew joined Ryanair in 
December 2017 and before that worked for Malaysia Airlines for two years. Johan Lundgren, easyJet’s chief 
executive, said Mr Bellew was “a great leader with a proven track record in delivering results”. Alongside the 
appointment, easyJet reported a rise in revenue despite intense competition in the European short-haul market. A 
strong Easter helped total revenue for the quarter ending June 30 rise by 11.4 per cent to £1.76bn. More here
Stonegate Pub Company, the owner of Slug & Lettuce, has agreed to buy pub group Ei in an all-cash offer that 
values Ei at £3bn, including net debt. Ei group, formerly known as Enterprise Inns, is the largest pub owner in the 
UK with some 4,000 pubs in its estate. Stonegate, which is owned by private equity group TDR capital, was 
founded in 2010 with the purchase of 333 pubs from the pub group Mitchells & Butler for £373m. Full story here.
Elliott, the US hedge fund manager that has made a name for itself with high-profile campaigns against the 
Argentine government and successfully forced the break-up of Whitbread last year, has taken a 5 per cent stake in 
Saga. Saga, which specialises in products for the over 50s, has had a troubled year marked by a profit warning in 
April and cuts to its dividend. The company’s share price is down 74 per cent since its 2014 flotation and has halved 
this year. The news, however, perked up the shares on Wednesday and they finished 12 per cent higher. Read 
more
BT has agreed to sell its historic London headquarters site to a real estate private equity firm as part of a large-
scale overhaul of its business. The telecoms group said it had agreed to sell the building near St Paul’s Cathedral in 
London for £209.6m to a fund run by London-based private equity investors Orion Capital Managers.
Job moves 
John Kerr has been appointed non-executive chairman of Kin + Carta, the international digital transformation 
business, formerly known as St Ives. Mr Kerr, who was the global head of consultancy firm Deloitte Consulting, 
succeeds Richard Stillwell. Michele Maher, formerly chief financial officer of Hogg Robinson Group, also joins the 
board of Kin + Carta. She will be a non-executive director and is due to become chair of the audit committee in 
October.
Young’s, the brewery, has appointed Simon Dodd to the newly created role of chief operating officer. Mr Dodd 
joins from rival Fuller’s and joins the board of Young’s from the beginning of September.
We’re looking to feature more job moves. If you’re in senior management and moving jobs or you know 
someone who is, let us know about it at 
Markets speed-read 
Global stocks were unnerved on Thursday following a set of weak earnings on Wall Street and indications that 
global trade disputes may not be resolved any time soon. Frankfurt’s Xetra Dax 30 fell 1.3 per cent to its lowest 
level in a month at the open, while London’s FTSE 100 fell 0.5 per cent and the wider, international Stoxx 600 lost 
0.6 per cent.
 Sign up here to Market Forces, Mike Mackenzie’s daily analysis of what’s moving global markets
Beyond the Square Mile 
Netflix added far fewer subscribers in the three months ending in June than expected, raising concerns about the 
streaming giant just as rivals Disney and Apple are set to swoop into its market and sending shares sharply lower. 
Netflix, which has 60m US subscribers, also revealed that it had lost customers in its home market for the first time 
since 2011, following price rises of as much as 18 per cent earlier this year. It said it expects to add up to 800,000 
subscribers in the US in the third quarter when popular shows Stranger Things (pictured) and Orange is the New 
Black return with new seasons. 
Opening Quote: Botched rollout of new warehouses damages Asos’s image
SAP, Europe’s largest software maker and Germany’s most valuable company, has also disappointed investors this 
morning. The company reported second-quarter profits that missed expectations after being hit by the simmering 
trade war between China and the US, which has dented software sales in Asia. 
Better news from N26. The millennial-focused, European online bank has raised another $170m from existing 
investors, including China’s Tencent and Peter Thiel’s Valar Ventures, valuing it at $3.5bn. “We now have a runway 
of 18 to 24 months,” co-founder Maximilian Tayenthal told the FT as the company prepares to expand in the US.
IBM’s revenues have fallen for a fourth straight quarter, pointing to continued pressure on its older products and 
services despite years of trying to reposition itself in growth markets like cloud computing, artificial intelligence and 
blockchain.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Tail Risk
Investors are, belatedly, catching up with the real risk that US authorities will try to weaken the dollar and traders 
are now working to catch up on FX warcraft, writes Katie Martin.
Lex 
Rothschild & Co’s decision to buy Redburn, the independent equity research house, will support its mid-table 
position in European M&A rankings. But bolstering its European research will do little for Rothschild in the US, 
where it lags behind Lazard, its closest rival.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: July 18, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair to cut flights because of Boeing 737 Max grounding
Ryanair to cut flights because of Boeing 737 Max grounding
 
FT.com
July 16, 2019 Tuesday 7:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 487 words
Byline: Janina Conboye in London
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair will cut flights next summer and potentially close some European bases as a result of the 
grounding of Boeing’s 737 Max jets after two fatal crashes.
The Irish carrier said the delay to the delivery of new aircraft would result in it receiving almost half the number of 
jets — 30 compared with 58 — it was expecting by next May.
The shortfall has led the airline to reduce the number of passengers it expects to carry in the year to March 2021 to 
157m, from the 162m previously forecast. The company said it would also need to make some cutbacks, including 
the possible closure of some of its bases for summer 2020.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, said the company was starting a series of discussions with its airports 
to determine which of its underperforming or lossmaking bases would take a hit from November 2019.
Ryanair said it expected the 737 Max 8, which has been grounded after two crashes in which a total of 346 people 
died, to return to service before the end of 2019 — although that could be delayed.
Boeing hopes to lodge an application to regulators to allow the aircraft to fly again by September, with a return to 
service shortly after. However, Mr O’Leary said “it would be prudent to plan for that date to slip by some months, 
possibly as late as December”.
Ryanair to cut flights because of Boeing 737 Max grounding
Ryanair has ordered 737 Max 200s, a variant of the 737 Max 8 aircraft. With additional seats and an extra 
emergency door, these jets need to be certified by the Federal Aviation Administration in the US and the European 
Aviation Safety Agency.
The airline had expected approval for the 737 Max 200s within two months of the Max 737’s return to service and 
hoped to receive its first Max 200 aircraft between January and February 2020.
Ryanair can only take delivery of between six and eight new aircraft each month and said it was therefore planning 
its summer 2020 schedules based on taking 30 deliveries. Mr O’Leary said that number “could rise, or fall further, 
depending on when the 737 Max actually returns to flight services”.
Analysts at Bernstein said the easing of capacity growth was actually a positive for the broader industry and “more 
supportive for European short-haul yields”.
They said competitors could respond by “electing to ramp up their own flying and grab share, or curbing their own 
capacity growth in an effort to further support yields”.
While Ryanair said its cuts to bases or possible closures were linked to the grounding of the 737 Max, Gerald Khoo, 
an analyst at Liberum, said the move “may be interpreted as an indicator of underlying weakness in trading”.
Ryanair’s share price closed 2.5 per cent up on Tuesday. Shares in its rivals, including easyJet, Lufthansa and 
British Airways’ parent IAG, also rose. 
Norwegian Air Shuttle is another European low-cost carrier affected by the grounding of its 737 Max 8 jets. It 
operated 18 Max 8 aircraft out of a total fleet of about 160 planes.
Load-Date: July 29, 2019
End of Document
Stocks to watch: AG Barr, Burberry , ITV , Aston Martin , Rightmove
Stocks to watch: AG Barr, Burberry, ITV, Aston Martin, Rightmove
 
FT.com
July 16, 2019 Tuesday 2:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1086 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Tuesday 14:30 BST
What’s happening
● AG Barr slipped to its lowest point since late 2017 on a profit warning. Unhelpful weather and problems with its 
Rockstar and Rubicon Juice brands meant first-half revenue was down 10 per cent year on year, meaning full-year 
profit would probably drop as much as 20 per cent, the soft-drink maker said. 
Numis cut earnings forecasts for the next three years by about 21 per cent, to 26.4p per share for 2020, 27.6p for 
2021 and 28.4p for 2022. “Post this year’s downgrade there’s little growth forecast at this stage,” it said. “As such 
we believe that a more reasonable price-to-earnings multiple for AG Barr is 20 times (in line with its five-year 
average) which indicates a price target of 550p  . . . We still think the shares are overvalued.”
Weather worries meant sector peers Fevertree and Britvic faded ahead of trading updates due on July 23 and 24 
respectively. Drinks companies take two-thirds of profit from the second and third quarters, said Jefferies, which 
estimated that the UK market accounts for 72 per cent of revenue for Britvic and 58 per cent for Fevertree.
● Burberry led the FTSE 100 gainers as an improvement in sales helped bolster optimism around the brand’s 
reinvention under creative director Riccardo Tisci.
Like-for-like sales growth of 4 per cent in the fiscal first quarter compared with a 2 per cent consensus as demand 
among Chinese nationals proved surprisingly strong. There was no change to full-year guidance beyond a £7m 
Stocks to watch: AG Barr, Burberry , ITV , Aston Martin , Rightmove
currency headwind turning into a £15m tailwind, though management flagged a “very promising” consumer 
response to its new collection.
JPMorgan Cazenove, which had already accounted for the quarter’s currency swing, edged its earnings forecasts 
higher for this year and next by 1 per cent and 2 per cent but retained “neutral” advice. It called the day’s share 
price move too generous. “The ideal case scenario of a Burberry turnaround are not in place,” JPMorgan said. “The 
growth is not widespread across regions and solely driven by APAC and the Chinese consumer. The leather goods 
and trenchcoats, critical to elevation and sales densities, remain under pressure.”
● EasyJet led the European airline stocks higher after Ryanair cut capacity growth plans to reflect deliveries of the 
grounded Boeing 737 Max jet slipping by two months to January or February. 
Ryanair said it would only take delivery of six to eight new aircraft each month, so would have 30 Max jets in service 
for next year’s summer season rather than the 58 it originally planned. Its summer 2020 seat growth estimate fell 
from 7 per cent to 3 per cent, though long-term targets were unchanged. Raymond James analysts said Ryanair’s 
capacity cuts helped support hopes of a ticket “price inflection” across the industry this winter.
Sellside stories
● Liberum upgraded ITV to “buy” from “hold” with a 145p target price. The broadcaster’s 18 per cent drop since May 
has been too sharp as there are “clear signs ITV1 is holding up better than expected on both the advertising and 
audience side”, it said.
“We think the market has not realised that the general TV audience trends for ITV are more benign than 
believed and that most of the more significant declines are happening at smaller channels. While we have been 
our concerned about the performance of ITV2/3/4, in the short-term, Love Island should boost numbers in the 
short term and a recent meeting with management reassured us on this point.”Liberum
ITV last year signed a retransmission deal with Virgin Media that boosted pre-tax profits by £35m, said Liberum. 
Signing a similar agreement with Sky could deliver £120m in annualised revenue at a 100 per cent margin, it said. 
“Here the omens look good. Sky signed a five year partnership with STV in January, which looked broadly similar to 
the deal STV signed with Virgin Media last year. Timing-wise, we would expect ITV and Sky to conclude talks 
towards the back end of this year, with the benefits coming through in 2020.”
Trading at under 8 times adjusted earnings, ITV represents “an attractive opportunity, especially as the Virgin Media 
and (we expect) Sky programming deals should help support earnings,” it said.
● Jefferies upgraded Aston Martin Lagonda to “hold” from “underperform” with a £10 target. 
Second-quarter results from Aston due on July 31 will be worse both compared with the first quarter and year on 
year, Jefferies said. It expected the carmaker to have burnt through around £55m in the quarter as revenue and 
average selling prices remain flat. Hitting 2019 consensus forecasts, while “not impossible”, required a sharp 
improvement in profit margins. The balance sheet looks tight with customer deposits for special editions likely to 
have exceeded gross cash, said Jefferies. The launch next year of the DBX sport-utility vehicle may prompt the 
company to raise cash with a convertible bond, the broker added.
Nevertheless, Jefferies said that Aston’s operations would be “significantly more attractive than auto peers in 2020”. 
The positives were the launch of the DBX, a bumper year for special editions and no significant hit from EU carbon 
dioxide emissions targets. With Aston trading at 1.5 times revenue and 32 times 2020 earnings, the stock was 
getting “adequate credit for growth and upcoming profit improvement”, Jefferies said.
● UBS cut its target on Rightmove to 500p from 505p and repeated “sell” advice. The broker’s own data suggested 
1,000 fewer advertisers listing properties for sale on Rightmove’s property portal than at the end of December, a 4 
per cent decline. If 750 agents quit the site entirely this year it would cost Rightmove between £3m and £4m in 
membership fees, said UBS. 
Stocks to watch: AG Barr, Burberry , ITV , Aston Martin , Rightmove
“This data reflects our view that estate agents, who have survived the industry decline in commission rates, are 
being further impacted as transaction volumes turn negative.”UBS
● In brief: A2A raised to “neutral” at Citigroup; BMW rated new “neutral” at Goldman Sachs; Daimler rated new 
“sell” at Goldman Sachs; Elekta raised to “hold” at Jefferies; Enel cut to “neutral” at Citigroup; Johnson Service 
rated new “overweight” at Barclays; Lloyds cut to “neutral” at JPMorgan; Nyfosa raised to “buy” at Kepler 
Cheuvreux; Parkmead cut to “hold” at Panmure Gordon; Peugeot rated new “buy” at Goldman Sachs; Renault 
rated new “neutral” at Goldman Sachs; Sampo rated new “buy” at Kepler Cheuvreux.
Read more
Stocks tread water as investors look to raft of US earnings
For market updates and comment follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Load-Date: July 16, 2019
End of Document
Opening Quote: StanChart CEO attacks ‘immature’ investors in pay row
Opening Quote: StanChart CEO attacks ‘immature’ investors in pay row
 
FT.com
July 16, 2019 Tuesday 8:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1182 words
Byline: Gordon Smith
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
The chief executive of Standard Chartered has launched a blistering attack on “immature” investors who recently 
staged a protest against his pay. 
Bill Winters made the comments after almost 40 per cent of StanChart’s shareholders declined to back the 
lender’s new remuneration policy at its annual meeting in May. 
The protest vote — the largest at a UK bank for five years — followed investor anger over a change in the way 
StanChart calculated pensions for top executives. 
“Picking on individual pension arrangements . . . and suggesting that there is some big issue there is immature and 
unhelpful,” Mr Winters told the Financial Times.
Briefly 
A well-received collection by new chief designer Riccardo Tisci and brisk business in China propelled Burberry to 
better-than-expected sales growth in the first quarter of this year. Mr Tisci’s collections, which are now in half of 
Burberry’s worldwide stores, had generated an “excellent consumer response,” said Marco Gobbetti, Burberry chief 
executive.
Opening Quote: StanChart CEO attacks ‘immature’ investors in pay row
Ryanair is cutting flights this winter and next summer due to delays linked to the crisis at Boeing following two fatal 
accidents that left more than 350 people dead. The low-cost Irish airline had been expecting to take delivery of 58 
new Boeing 737 Max jets but said on Tuesday because of delays it will now only receive 30 new planes. In a  
statement to the Irish stock exchange it said the delays would almost halve the airline’s growth rate next summer to 
3 per cent.
The UK’s competition watchdog has launched an investigation into plans to take Inmarsat, Britain’s largest satellite 
company, private. The Competition and Markets Authority said on Tuesday it was considering whether the 
acquisition of Inmarsat by private equity firms led by Apax and Warburg Pincus would reduce competition in the 
market. The deal, announced in March, would see Inmarsat return to private equity ownership almost 15 years after 
it was floated, valuing it at around $6bn, including debt.
Revolut’s new chief operating officer promised to strengthen the digital bank’s governance and move on from 
recent controversies as it attempts to seal Europe’s largest ever fintech fundraising. In his first interview since 
joining the $1.7bn start-up Richard Davies said: “We’ll really make sure that we’ve got governance and controls 
moving at the same pace as the commercial growth environment.”
Theresa May has signed off a £500m loan guarantee to Jaguar Land Rover to encourage the car company to build 
electric cars in the Midlands in one of her last big interventions before leaving Downing Street. The funding package 
for JLR includes £500m from UK Export Finance as well as £125m from commercial lenders. More details here.
IQ Capital, a venture capital firm based in Cambridge, has raised more than $300m to invest in long-term “deep 
tech” projects. The company, founded in 2007, also said it had raised a $125m “growth opportunities fund” to 
provide later-stage capital to outperforming companies in their existing venture portfolio. The term “deep tech” 
refers to technologies developed based on substantial scientific advances and engineering innovation, such as 
artificial intelligence, biotech and the “internet of things”. Full story here.
Pearson, the UK-based educational group and former owner of the Financial Times, is to focus on the online 
publishing of all its future materials for US higher education students as it accelerates away from printed textbooks. 
The company plans to scale back printing sharply and invest instead in expanding a mixture of ebooks combined 
with digital testing and marking.
The UK’s audit watchdog has proposed more stringent ethical rules requiring firms to be independent from their 
clients following a series of high-profile accounting controversies at UK companies, including retail chain BHS and 
outsourcer Carillion. The Financial Reporting Council on Monday launched a consultation on new rules designed 
to tackle conflicts of interest among auditors and limit the non-audit services firms can provide to clients.
In other news, CRH, the Irish building materials group, is selling its European distribution business for €1.6bn to 
private equity funds managed by Blackstone.
Markets speed-read 
Earnings from JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo are set to dominate trading on Tuesday. 
According to futures trading, major national European bourses will slip by about 0.2 per cent apiece after an 
uncertain showing in Asia.
 Sign up here to Market Forces, Mike Mackenzie's daily analysis of what's moving global markets
Beyond the Square Mile 
Santander offered to pay Andrea Orcel a sign-on package worth up to €52m in its aborted attempt to recruit him as 
chief executive, according to a formal offer letter seen by the Financial Times. But the letter, dated September 24, 
appeared to throw doubt on the official reason that Santander gave for rescinding the job offer in January, when the 
bank released a statement saying “the cost . . . of compensating Mr Orcel for the deferred awards . . . would be a 
Opening Quote: StanChart CEO attacks ‘immature’ investors in pay row
sum significantly above the board’s original expectations”. The four-page offer letter also shines a light on the 
multimillion-euro pay packages that banks offer to secure top executives. Read more
Broadcom’s plans to take over Symantec have hit a wall after the two companies could not agree on a valuation 
for the cyber security software company. Both companies have halted talks after Broadcom sought to cut the price it 
had agreed to pay for Symantec over the weekend, according to two people with knowledge of the negotiations. 
Full story
The Benetton’s toll road operator Atlantia is to join a public-private group aiming to revive Italy’s long lossmaking 
airline Alitalia. Atlantia intends to inject about €300m to acquire a stake of about 30 per cent in a new holding 
company led by state rail group Ferrovie, and the Italian finance ministry that would control Alitalia.
Citigroup became the first US bank to report quarterly earnings on Monday and delivered solid profit growth and a 
rebound in its struggling consumer operations, but trading revenues were weak and the bank reported tighter net 
interest margins, suggesting pain ahead for its rivals.
LVMH has snapped up a minority stake in Stella McCartney’s eponymous brand. Ms McCartney is to continue as 
creative director and majority shareholder of her brand and will also become a special adviser on sustainability to 
Bernard Arnault, chairman and chief executive of LVMH, and its executive committee. 
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Michael Skapinker
Unlike its food, Ocado’s half-yearly statement was probably not meant for public consumption. But why do 
companies produce the sort of gobbledegook the online retailer  was ridiculed for last week? Public relations 
experts share their views. 
Lombard
Do privately owned fintechs really need big names to raise money? Revolut would seem not to, says Matthew 
Vincent.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: July 16, 2019
End of Document
Norwegian boss steps down, saying departure ‘way overdue’
Norwegian boss steps down, saying departure ‘way overdue’
 
FT.com
July 11, 2019 Thursday 6:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 491 words
Byline: Janina Conboye in London and Alice Woodhouse in Hong Kong
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle chief executive Bjorn Kjos declared his departure was “way overdue” as he announced plans 
to step down after 17 years in the role with a parting warning over company profits.
The 72-year-old former fighter pilot said at a news conference: “You shouldn’t lead an airline past your seventies.” 
He added that the grounding of Boeing’s 737 Max aircraft will hit company results.
The co-founder of the airline leaves at a difficult time for the group with shares down more than 75 per cent since 
April 2018 and its finances stretched following bold plans to take on the transatlantic airlines in the long-haul 
market. 
Shares traded flat on Thursday as Mr Kjos had signalled his intention to leave the company, the third-largest low-
cost carrier in Europe behind Ryanair and easyJet. 
He will become an adviser to the chairman. Chief financial officer, Geir Karlsen, will step in as interim chief 
executive.
The group, which reported a fall in net profits of NKr82.8m in the second quarter compared with NKr300m a year 
earlier, has struggled under Mr Kjos’ tenure, trying to be a low-cost European and transatlantic airline as well as 
Norway’s flag carrier. 
The airline undertook a significant strategy change earlier this year, promising an end to rapid growth that saw it 
launch low-cost transatlantic flights in 2012.
Norwegian boss steps down, saying departure ‘way overdue’
The company expects the grounding of the 737 Max 8 jets after two crashes in March this year and October 2018 to 
hit results to the tune of Nkr700m ($81.8m).
The group, which operated 18 Max 8 aircraft out of a total fleet of about 160 planes, expects the jet will be back in 
operation in October. 
Niels Smedegaard, chairman of the board, said: “We have to ensure that Norwegian is well prepared and 
positioned to handle volatile markets and unexpected events. It is crucial that we continue to deliver on our cost 
reduction initiatives.”
But Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said doubts pervade over the group’s finances. “The company is 
levered to the hilt and we haven’t seen any major airline walk away from that mountain of debt without a 
bankruptcy,” he said.
Mr Roeska warned that while the results are in line with expectations “the crucial months will be over winter”. 
Bernstein added in a note that Mr Kjos has been the driving force behind the business. “The big question now is 
whether Norwegian can maintain momentum as he takes a less active role,” it said.
Andrew Lobbenberg, a HSBC analyst, said the strategy of the business had changed under Mr Kjos from his 
“original growth orientation to a new focus on profitability”.
Problems at the carrier were highlighted in January as it announced an emergency rights issue of NKr3bn, more 
than half the airline’s equity value.
At the time of the rights issue, Norwegian said it was no longer in takeover talks after a potential bid from IAG, the 
owner of British Airways, failed to materialise. 
Mr Kjos said there was no intention of raising more equity.
Load-Date: July 11, 2019
End of Document
Frequent flyer: how to stop drunk passengers behaving badly
Frequent flyer: how to stop drunk passengers behaving badly
 
FT.com
July 8, 2019 Monday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 648 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
In almost five decades of flying I have never seen a disruptive passenger, an out-of-control drunk or even heard an 
angry voice. It seems I have been lucky.
A survey by  Which? Travel, the UK consumer magazine, found that 17 per cent of Ryanair passengers had 
witnessed shouting, drunkenness or verbal abuse by other passengers over the previous year.
Eight per cent had seen the same on Emirates and Virgin Atlantic flights. Questioned by Unite, the trade union, 87 
per cent of cabin crew on UK-based airlines said they had seen drunk passengers behaving badly.
Is this primarily a British problem? The International Air Transport Association says the number of disruptive 
passenger incidents worldwide has risen sharply. But in 2017, the last year for which it provides figures, there was 
only one disruptive incident for every 1,053 flights and, of those, 86 per cent were verbal outbursts that “can usually 
be brought to a successful conclusion by crew using de-escalation training”.
The remainder were serious, involving physical aggression, damage to the aircraft or, in rare cases, attempts to 
enter the cockpit.
However rare or frequent, disruption in the air is frightening. Airline staff should not have to put up with it. Alcohol 
lies behind much of the trouble.  Iata said it was a factor in 27 per cent of incidents and UK reports refer to it 
frequently.
Frequent flyer: how to stop drunk passengers behaving badly
What can be done? While the airlines complain about drunk passengers, they serve alcohol freely on some flights 
and profit from on-board drinks sales on others. The carriers respond that many passengers start drinking before 
they fly.
A survey by Alcohol Change UK found that one in five British holidaymakers started drinking at the airport. Sellers 
of drink airside in England are not subject to the licensing constraints that affect other pubs, such as restrictions on 
discounts and an obligation to enforce an age verification policy and seek local government approval for their 
opening hours.
According to a  Home Office document, the laissez-faire attitude to airport drinking came from a sense of national 
embarrassment.
In 1956, Harold Watkinson, the then-aviation minister, said foreign passengers travelling through UK airports found 
pub opening times bewildering “and one may forgive them if they do not always understand why it is that they 
cannot always obtain a drink”. So airside outlets were told they could do pretty much what they wished.
Now the embarrassment is on the other side, with too many people availing themselves of this liberality. The UK 
government is consulting on whether to impose restrictions on departure lounge drinks. But if that happens, what of 
the executive lounges that provide booze for free?
Airlines have the right to refuse boarding to passengers who appear drunk but, as Somerville Hastings, an MP who 
opposed the airport exemption in 1956, observed, it can take a while for someone who has been drinking to show 
the signs. The passenger seems sober “because very little of the alcohol has at that time been absorbed . . . But, 
later, he develops the symptoms of intoxication and becomes a nuisance.”
Here is one possible solution: ban alcohol everywhere — in the airport, in the lounges and on flights. Draconian? 
People felt the same once about banning smoking.
A booze ban wouldn’t bother me. I barely drink, and never while flying. But I’m a liberal. While I welcomed the 
smoking ban because smoke gets everywhere, most people who drink on board don’t trouble anyone.
A total ban seems a harsh restriction on the many for the sins of a few. So let’s limit drinking — at the airport and in 
the air — and see how that goes.
Follow Michael on Twitter  @Skapinker or email him at 
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. Listen and subscribe to Everything Else, the 
FT culture podcast, at             ft.com/everything-else or on             Apple Podcasts
Load-Date: July 22, 2019
End of Document
Night Boat to Tangier by Kevin Barry — the wandering rocks
Night Boat to Tangier by Kevin Barry — the wandering rocks
 
FT.com
June 28, 2019 Friday 10:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 868 words
Byline: Jon Day
Body
Kevin Barry’s first novel, City of Bohane, was a cinematic gangster noir set in a fictional city in the west of Ireland in 
a dystopian, technology-free future. It was a swaggering, dazzling book, studded with a kind of Hibernian version of 
Clockwork Orange’s nadsat, and it won Barry the IMPAC prize for fiction in 2013.
His second, Beatlebone, for which he won the Goldsmiths Prize in 2015, was a quieter affair, though no less 
satisfying for that. A formally inventive quest narrative, it followed John Lennon as he travelled to Dorinish, the small 
island in County Mayo he bought in 1967, where he hoped to escape from the world for a few days and indulge in 
some primal scream therapy. Barry seems always to have been interested in the tension between the smallness of 
Ireland — the “little kingdom” that Lennon describes in Beatlebone (a phrase also used in the title of Barry’s first 
short-story collection) — and the expansiveness of its writing, and this tension is one that animates his third novel.
Night Boat to Tangier feels like something of a fusion of his previous books. It opens as two “fading Irish gangsters” 
— Maurice “Moss” Hearne and Charlie Redman — sit in a ferry terminal in the southern Spanish port of Algeciras. 
The terminal, a non-place through which walk-on characters can drift, makes a good stage set, and it’s hard to 
avoid comparisons with Beckett. Like Vladimir and Estragon, Moss and Charlie are waiting. They’re waiting for 
Moss’s estranged daughter Dilly to pass through on her way to or from Tangier, but they’re also waiting for death.
As night falls they harangue dreadlocked travellers who they think might know Dilly, and reminisce about their lives 
of drug smuggling, dodgy real estate speculation, low-level violence and lost love. Some chapters are set in the 
past, in Ireland, London and other parts of Ryanair-accessible Europe, and describe Moss’s relationship with Dilly’s 
Night Boat to Tangier by Kevin Barry — the wandering rocks
mother Cynthia, and his affairs. But most of the narrative is confined to the terminal, and the question of whether 
Dilly will ever arrive.
The partners’ glory days are very much behind them. Cannabis is no longer smuggled: it’s grown hydroponically in 
bedsits. The protection racket is not what it was. “The years have turned and left Maurice and Charlie behind”, 
writes Barry, “the men are elegiacal, woeful, heavy in the bones. Also they are broke and grieving.”
If the set-up evokes Beckett the dramatist, the language of Night Boat to Tangier is much more like that of Beckett 
the novelist. It is written in a kind of ornate pub-lyricism that casts into relief the grime and squalor of its subjects: a 
baroque High Style fused with low-life garrulousness that reminded me of the Beckett of Murphy, and of the trilogy. 
Descriptions are dense and evocative. Charlie’s face “somehow has an antique look, like a court player’s, medieval, 
a man who’d strum his lute for you”; Moss’s “left eye is smeared and dead”; a landlord has “a papery film like 
mothskin stretched over his eyes”; the sea “guffs up a newsy froth” while a trawler, “flush with octopus”, “waddles 
into port” and an SUV stops to “disgorge a unit of fat kids”. The Beckettian influence is there, more explicitly, when 
Moss, exiled to London, sees, as Murphy did before him, “the lights of all the cages” of the city’s lonely tenements 
go on, near the “great maw of Finsbury park”.
This is rich fare, and Barry’s strident image-making can threaten to take over at times. Why need a payphone be a 
“coin phone”? Are a line of larches really “primly erect, arrogant as surgeons”? “Watch out for words most of all”, 
Dilly thinks, knowingly enacting her own fears, at one point. “Watch out for ripe language — it means your words 
may be about to go off.” Beckett eventually shied away from this kind of writing, as though wary of his innate 
fluency, and tried to rid his prose of its colour by composing in French before translating himself into English, but it 
is testament to Barry’s ear that he is fully aware of the threat, and to his skill that his prose never reaches its sell-by 
date.
Like Murphy, Night Boat to Tangier is really about exile and loss, and about the way in which Ireland often seems 
unable to fully sustain and nourish its young. In the late 1990s, buoyed up by Celtic Tiger optimism, Cynthia and 
Moss invest his money in a swish housing development in the countryside (the builders are nervous about the 
proximity of a fairy fort, and the project founders). Later Red and Moss run away to the continent to seek their 
fortune. But abroad they only find disappointment.
For James Joyce’s Stephen Dedalus, Ireland was the “sow that eats her farrow”. For Moss and Charlie it is, with its 
“smiling friends” and “speaking rocks” and “sea memory”, a haunted, claustrophobic place: a “wet tormented rock 
on the edge of the black Atlantic”. But it is also a place that it is difficult to escape the influence of.
 Night Boat to Tangier, by Kevin Barry, Canongate, RRP£14.99, 224 pages
Jon Day is author of ‘Homing’ (John Murray)
Join our online book group on Facebook at  FTBooksCafe. Listen and subscribe to Everything Else, the FT culture 
podcast, at             ft.com/everything-else or on             Apple Podcasts
Load-Date: July 2, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair rejigs share buyback terms in event of no-deal Brexit
Ryanair rejigs share buyback terms in event of no-deal Brexit
 
FT.com
June 26, 2019 Wednesday 6:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 458 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Ryanair has ramped up efforts to keep the airline under majority EU ownership in a no-deal Brexit by triggering 
block purchases of shares from investors under a month-old €700m buyback scheme. 
The Irish carrier’s move comes amid anxiety about the rising risk of Britain crashing out of the bloc in the autumn as 
Boris Johnson, the favourite to succeed Theresa May as prime minister, pushes for a “do or die” Brexit in October 
even without a deal. 
Jeremy Hunt, Mr Johnson’s rival for the Conservative leadership, has indicated that he too is willing to leave the EU 
with no agreement. 
Ryanair fears a sudden breach of its legal requirement to be majority owned and controlled by European nationals 
after a no-deal Brexit because its share of EU shareholders would immediately drop from 55 per cent to 45 per cent 
without UK investors. 
The question is one of the most complex facing airlines in the run-up to a possible no deal, with doubt also cast 
over some carriers’ supply chains for aircraft spare parts. 
In a fresh bid to curtail the number of shares in the hands of non-Europeans, Ryanair on Wednesday rejigged the 
buyback scheme to allow block buybacks. 
“Any such block repurchases from UK holders of shares will, in the event of a no-deal or ‘hard’ Brexit, limit the 
proportionate number of shares held by or on behalf of non-EU shareholders,” it said. 
Ryanair rejigs share buyback terms in event of no-deal Brexit
The move will quicken the pace at which Ryanair’s UK share base is reduced in the event of a no-deal. 
Ryanair approved the share buyback only last month, saying it would run for up to 12 months. The move to allow 
block buybacks will not change the original €700m limit on the scheme, the airline said. The timing and actual 
number of shares repurchased will depend on market conditions, it added. 
But Ryanair said the move could “reduce the period” in which related measures to boost EU shareholdings in the 
company would be enforced.
The Dublin-based carrier has already warned UK investors that they will lose voting rights after a hard Brexit until 
Ryanair regains a 55 per cent EU majority of shareholders, something that could take as long as eight months.
Under measures passed by its board last March, UK shareholders will not have the right to attend, speak or vote at 
any general meeting of the company after a no-deal.
UK nationals will not be allowed to buy Ryanair ordinary shares “with effect from hard Brexit day” — and when UK 
investors decide to sell shares in a no-deal, they will be allowed to sell only to EU nationals.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, has said it could take the airline four months to increase its EU 
shareholding above 50 per cent, with another four months required to bring the level to 55 per cent. Only then 
would Ryanair restore voting rights.
Load-Date: June 27, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair/Brexit: open skies blues
Ryanair/Brexit: open skies blues
 
FT.com
June 26, 2019 Wednesday 2:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 357 words
Body
Low-cost airlines took off after the 1990s liberalisation of Europe’s skies. Brexit has grounded integrationists’ 
dreams. Dublin-based Ryanair is trimming accordingly. A €700m share buyback may be tweaked to reduce its UK 
shareholder base, it said on Wednesday. In a no-deal Brexit, that could make meeting EU ownership rules slightly 
easier. It will not brighten shareholders’ mood.
European air travel has hit serious turbulence. Overcapacity and a price war have eroded profits. Better performing 
long-haul operations have helped incumbent national carriers. They are fighting back. 
Ryanair is concentrated in short haul. Its position at the top of European aviation may be at an end. Adding ballast 
is lossmaking Laudamotion, acquired recently. Ryanair’s shares have underperformed Lufthansa and British 
Airways owner IAG for much of the past year. But they still trade at about 12.5 times forward earnings, a quarter 
higher than easyJet. 
Brexit will intensify Ryanair’s woes, especially if chaotic. Without UK shareholders, EU ownership would fall below 
the 50 per cent minimum. The €700m buyback will make scant difference, however. The sum amounts to just 6 per 
cent of its market value. Perhaps the notoriously brusque company wants to show it cares about the comfort of 
shareholders, if not passengers? Yet UK shareholders still face losing voting rights.
A further threat is to EU traffic rights. In the event of a no-deal Brexit, the industry assumes regulators would keep 
aeroplanes flying. The risk of disruption is significant. Market fragmentation will become a long-term headwind. A 
quarter of Ryanair’s revenues are from the UK, where its margins are higher than elsewhere.
Ryanair/Brexit: open skies blues
Brexit also threatens to badly disrupt the UK and continental European economies. Ryanair’s buyback is therefore 
merely a sop. “This is not a time when anybody else should be buying shares,” garrulous boss Michael O’Leary 
admitted last month. He is right.
Lex publishes two popular newsletters for premium subscribers. Wednesday: Lex Letter From London, New York or 
San Francisco. Fridays: Best of Lex, a weekly round-up. Please sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: June 27, 2019
End of Document
Opening Quote: Woodford-backed car auctioneer sold for £2bn
Opening Quote: Woodford-backed car auctioneer sold for £2bn
 
FT.com
June 26, 2019 Wednesday 8:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1094 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
Another day, another bit of Neil Woodford portfolio news. This time it is his stake in a more mainstream FTSE 250 
listed company rather than one of the troublesome unquoted holdings (more on which here) which looks set to go. 
BCA Marketplace, owner of WeBuyAnyCar.com, is being snapped up by private equity for £1.9bn in a deal trailed 
last week.
TDR Capital is offering a 25 per cent premium to the closing price the day before details of the deal were revealed, 
if a dividend declared on Wednesday is included in the price. It has secured the backing of 44 per of BCA’s 
shareholders, including Invesco and Woodford, who has given a letter of intent to vote in favour of the deal.
Not everyone was convinced a deal would be done. Hedge fund manager Crispin Odey told the Telegraph over 
the weekend he thought TDR’s approach would fail and was upping his bet against BCA. 
BCA, which sold more than a million cars last year, helpfully and succinctly explains the appeal of the deal to 
shareholders such as Woodford, who needs to liquidate holdings to pay shareholders who want to exit his gated 
flagship fund. “The offer from TDR gives shareholders the opportunity to receive cash at a significant premium to 
the prevailing share price.”
Perhaps Mr Odey underestimated the appeal of cash in hand at a time like this — something BCA’s used car 
sellers understand only too well. 
Opening Quote: Woodford-backed car auctioneer sold for £2bn
Briefly 
Stagecoach reported a 30 per cent rise in profits despite a collapse in revenues as it retrenches from UK rail. The 
public transport operator is currently involved in a spat with the Department for Transport, which disqualified the 
company from three rail franchise contests over a dispute about who pays for a pensions shortfall. Stagecoach says 
it has no intention to bid for new UK rail franchises on the “current risk profile” offered by the DfT. Its UK franchised 
rail operations stand to end in December. Pre tax profits were £101m up from £78m, while revenues dropped from 
£2.8bn to £1.9bn.
Rival operator FirstGroup fended off an attempt by activist investor Coast Capital to overhaul its board at an 
emergency meeting on Tuesday, but the fight appears to have cost the chairman his job. Wolfhart Hauser said after 
the meeting he would not stand for re-election next month, despite receiving investor support to stay on. 
Staying with transport and Ryanair said it plans to amend the terms of its €700m share buyback in order to limit the 
number of shares held by or on behalf of non-EU investors if the UK leaves the EU without a deal. Airlines have to 
be mindful of EU rules which require them to be majority owned by EU investors as part of their licence conditions. 
Finally, a former UBS compliance officer and her day trader friend have been convicted of insider trading in a case 
that detailed confidential tips being passed on untraceable phones and meetings at exclusive London members’ 
clubs. Fabiana Abdel-Malek, who worked at UBS, and Walid Choucair, were found guilty on Tuesday of three 
counts of insider trading each by a jury at Southwark Crown Court — an offence that carries a maximum 10-year 
sentence. The jury is still considering two other counts.
Job moves 
Bank of Ireland’s chief financial officer Andrew Keating is to leave the state-backed lender by the end of the year. 
He departs for a “senior finance role in an international organisation outside the financial services sector” amid 
tension between the Irish government and the country’s banks over stringent pay caps and a bonus ban. 
The chief executive of Dutch telecoms company KPN has quit the day after a large-scale network blackout. 
Maximo Ibarra, who has been in the role for only a year, said he would leave at the end of September to return to 
Italy and take up a new executive position. 
Markets speed-read 
Stocks took a knock and the US dollar rowed back from three-month lows after US central bankers tempered 
expectations of a larger-than-usual rate cut, and as sentiment remained cautious ahead of a meeting between 
American and Chinese leaders later this week. The dollar index, which hit a three-month intraday low on Tuesday, 
strengthened 0.1 per cent to 96.302. The FTSE 100 and Frankfurt’s Dax 30 both opened 0.1 per cent lower.
 Sign up here to Market Forces, Mike Mackenzie’s daily analysis of what’s moving global markets
Beyond the Square Mile
US drugmaker AbbVie has agreed to buy Allergan, the Irish-domiciled maker of Botox, in a $63bn deal that is the 
second blockbuster acquisition in the drug industry this year. AbbVie’s shareholders gave the proposed a 
resounding thumbs down. Shareholders hate the risk associated with bet-the-company transactions, says our Lex 
column. Here’s why the two groups agreed to the deal and a look at the challenges facing big pharma groups as 
their best-selling drugs lose patent protection.
Huawei has closed down its fast-growing but controversial solar energy business in the US as it continues to battle 
criticism from both the Trump administration and politicians in Congress, people with knowledge of the situation 
have told the Financial Times.
Opening Quote: Woodford-backed car auctioneer sold for £2bn
Deutsche Bank is facing multimillion-dollar losses within its US investment banking unit after the German lender 
struggled to offload two risky corporate loans. The FT revealed last week that Deutsche is working on a plan to 
create a so-called bad bank to hive off troubled assets valued at up to €50bn.
Nike cancelled the sale of a line of limited-edition sports shoes in China after their Japanese designer expressed 
support for protests against a proposed bill that would enable extradition to the mainland from Hong Kong.
Facebook’s hopes of launching a new virtual currency have suffered another blow, as two more financial regulators 
said on Tuesday they are paying close attention to the social media company’s plans. Martin Wolf, the FT’s chief 
economics commentator, has a cautious reaction to the proposal.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Lex
It is no wonder that the UK medical devices maker Smith & Nephew thought about moving its listing from the UK to 
the US to boost the pay of its new chief executive. On average, S&P 500 chiefs earn well over double those in the 
FTSE. 
Katie Martin
Since the global financial crisis central banks have slashed rates and pumped trillions into the bond markets — and 
they still cannot hit their inflation targets. Is it time for a new round of unconventional policy making? 
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: June 26, 2019
End of Document
Lufthansa unveils turnround plan for Eurowings
Lufthansa unveils turnround plan for Eurowings
 
FT.com
June 24, 2019 Monday 2:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 435 words
Byline: Janina Conboye
Body
Lufthansa has unveiled a turnround plan for its low-cost carrier Eurowings after the German airline last week 
announced its second profit warning this year.
It aims to cut costs at its struggling subsidiary, which was responsible for the profit warning because of falling 
revenues, by 15 per cent by 2022.
The company’s shares dropped 12 per cent after the profit warning and were down more than 30 per cent since the 
middle of April. They traded flat on Monday.
The plans will reduce Eurowing’s complexity by limiting it in Germany to one air operator’s certificate. 
It will exit the long-haul business, transferring responsibility to Lufthansa’s Network Airlines division, which includes 
Lufthansa and its Austrian and Swiss airlines. This group aims to reduce costs by 1 per cent to 2 per cent annually.
It also plans to announce a turnround plan for Brussels Airlines, the Belgian flag carrier it owns, in the third quarter 
of this year. 
Revenues at Eurowings are expected to continue to decline significantly in the second quarter as conditions 
deteriorate in the European airline industry. 
Several carriers have warned they are facing tough trading conditions. Ryanair and easyJet both issued profit 
warnings earlier this year. 
Lufthansa unveils turnround plan for Eurowings
Lufthansa outlined its strategy at its first capital markets day since 2011 and also announced that it had adjusted its 
dividend policy. 
It will in future pay 20 per cent to 40 per cent of the group’s net profit, adjusted for one-time gains and losses. The 
previous policy stipulated a payout of 10 per cent to 25 per cent of group earnings before interest and tax. 
Lufthansa said the policy change showed its “commitment to the generation of attractive shareholder returns”.
The group’s chief executive, Carsten Spohr, said the strategy “will enhance our efficiency and generate value for 
our shareholders”.
But Daniel Roeska, analyst at AllianceBernstein, said that while the plans for Eurowings were ambitious, it was 
“disappointing” that the company forecast break-even at Eurowings to be delayed until 2021.
Lufthansa made an adjusted loss of €336m before interest and tax in the first three months of 2019, compared with 
an adjusted profit of €52m in the same quarter last year.
The airline’s rivals have also recently posted a series of unflattering results. EasyJet’s overall pre-tax loss for the six 
months to the end of March widened to £272m from £68m the year before.
Ryanair posted a 30 per cent drop in pre-tax profits to €948m for the year to March 2019 while Air France-KLM 
reported a pre-tax loss of €450m, up from a loss of €257m in the same period for the previous year.
Load-Date: June 24, 2019
End of Document
European airline stocks knocked by Lufthansa profit warning
European airline stocks knocked by Lufthansa profit warning
 
FT.com
June 17, 2019 Monday 9:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 241 words
Byline: Myles McCormick in London
Body
Shares in airlines across Europe fell on Monday after Lufthansa issued a profit warning, citing intense competition 
in the sector.
The sell-off came after the Frankfurt-listed carrier cut its full-year outlook, saying its margins had come under 
pressure from “marketwide overcapacities” and “aggressively growing low-cost competitors”.
The warning pointed to a wider malaise in the sector, analysts said. Russ Mould at AJ Bell noted the factors at play 
were not new and that the cut in outlook suggested “life is getting even tougher for the airlines”.
Lufthansa led the fall, losing 10.8 per cent by mid-morning, making it the worst performer on both Germany’s Dax 
30 and the European benchmark Stoxx 600.
In London, low-cost carrier easyJet shed 5.2 per cent and was the worst performer on the FTSE 100. British Airlines 
parent IAG lost 2.5 per cent. Wizz dropped 3.2 per cent.
Air France-KLM was down 3.2 per cent in Paris, while Ryanair was the second-worst performer on Ireland’s ISEQ 
index, with shares dropping 4.3 per cent.
“While price cuts are fantastic news for travellers, the airline can’t sustain lossmaking operations forever,” Mr Mould 
said. “In addition to a price war and excess capacity across Europe, higher fuel prices and the 737 Max grounding 
have added to the industry pressures, making 2019 a miserable year for airlines.”
European airline stocks knocked by Lufthansa profit warning
In January Ryanair issued its second profit warning in four months as airfares fell over the winter period.
Load-Date: June 17, 2019
End of Document
Lufthansa warns on profits as low-cost competition intensifies
Lufthansa warns on profits as low-cost competition intensifies
 
FT.com
June 17, 2019 Monday 4:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 608 words
Byline: Janina Conboye in London
Body
Shares in Lufthansa dropped 12 per cent and weighed on its rivals after the German airline lowered its profit outlook 
for the second time this year.
Despite strong business on transatlantic and Asian routes, the airline’s European short-haul market, which includes 
its low-cost airline Eurowings, continues to face pressure from other carriers as they battle to win passengers. 
There is mounting evidence that conditions in the European airline industry are worsening after several carriers 
warned they were facing tough trading conditions. Ryanair and easyJet both issued profit warnings earlier this year.
Lufthansa expects its margin on adjusted earnings before interest and tax to be between 5.5 per cent and 6.5 per 
cent, down from a previously predicted range of 6.5 per cent to 8 per cent. 
It said this would produce an adjusted ebit figure of €2bn to €2.4bn. This also factors in a €550m increase in fuel 
costs, despite a recent decline in the oil price.
The profit warning dragged down Europe’s other big airlines. Ryanair shares fell 6 per cent, easyJet was down 5 
per cent and Air France slipped 5 per cent.
Adrian Yanoshik, analyst at Berenberg, said that “primarily it’s a short-haul average fare-pricing issue that’s 
spooked people”, reflecting overcapacity in the European short-haul market. He also said that as Europe’s largest 
airline, Lufthansa was a “canary in a coal mine” and drove sentiment in the sector.
Lufthansa warns on profits as low-cost competition intensifies
At Eurowings, revenues are expected to decline significantly in the second quarter. For the full year,  Lufthansa 
forecast a decrease at a mid-single-digit rate citing that “the progress in streamlining the Eurowings cost base is 
also slower than expected”.
“The Eurowings management has resolved upon further turnround measures which it will present shortly,” 
Lufthansa said. But according to Mr Yanoshik the company has not as yet “offered up any specifics”.
The airline said it expected the European market to remain challenging for the remainder of the year. 
But RBC Capital Markets said in a note that it remained “astonished” that Lufthansa continued to vigorously defend 
its market share, when “it is increasingly clear to us it seems to have neither the cost base nor product/price mix to 
do so without destroying shareholder value”. RBC sees little relief for the shares until Lufthansa “rethinks this value-
destructive strategy”.
RBC also noted that it found it hard to blame Eurowings’ costs on external factors saying that “financial 
control/management issues are now compounding the impact of a company seemingly unable to know where to 
focus its capital — and where not to”. 
Lufthansa Cargo has also been hit by weaker demand between Europe and Asia and expects flat revenue in 2019. 
Analysts at Bernstein noted that the decline in air freight demand raised more worries as it could foreshadow a 
slower business environment that would put further pressure on revenues.
Yet Mr Yanoshik added that by taking out three freighters from the cargo division since the beginning of June, the 
airline was adjusting to deal with year-on-year declines.
Lufthansa made an adjusted loss of €336m before interest and tax in the first three months of 2019, compared with 
an adjusted profit of €52m in the same quarter last year.
The airline’s rivals have also recently posted a series of unflattering results. EasyJet’s overall pre-tax loss for the six 
months to the end of March widened to £272m from £68m the year before.
Ryanair posted a 30 per cent drop in pre-tax profits to €948m for the year to March 2019 while Air France-KLM 
reported a pre-tax loss of €450m, up from a loss of €257m in the same period for the previous year.
Load-Date: June 18, 2019
End of Document
Lufthansa /European airlines: whingeing it
Lufthansa/European airlines: whingeing it
 
FT.com
June 17, 2019 Monday 3:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 399 words
Body
Are we there yet? European airline shareholders will empathise with overtired infants trapped in economy on 
delayed holiday flights. Another profit warning by Lufthansa pushed its shares 11 per cent lower on Monday. Other 
European airlines saw similar falls. Lufthansa’s market value has fallen almost a half since early 2018. Yet the end 
of the journey is still not in sight. 
Lufthansa blamed fierce competition, especially in its German and Austrian home markets. Eurowings, its budget 
airline which accounts for 12 per cent of revenues, racked up losses. As in European banking, fragmentation and 
over capacity have eroded profits in European short-haul airlines. Shares in British Airways owner IAG, Ryanair, 
and EasyJet as well as Lufthansa have underperformed sickly European bank stocks over the past year.
Airlines have sought to restrain supply. Growth in European short-haul capacity should fall below 3 per cent in the 
third quarter, the lowest for four years, Barclays reckons. Outright cuts may be needed. Lufthansa’s warning 
indicates that demand has fallen short of expectations. Germany’s economy has stalled. Brexit will dog European 
airlines at least until the winter. 
Before then, action on capacity is unlikely. Bookings are already in place. Meanwhile, price wars will intensify. 
Lufthansa says it will “vigorously defend” market shares. That was a riposte to Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary’s 
promise of “painful” price cuts to drive out rivals. 
Consolidation through mergers would be a way out. Lufthansa’s balance sheet is strong. But splashy acquisitions 
risk further alienating shareholders. Lufthansa is eyeing Thomas Cook’s German airline business. Fixing Eurowings 
should be its immediate priority. 
Lufthansa /European airlines: whingeing it
Lufthansa’s shares trade at a low-altitude multiple of just four times forward earnings. IAG and Air France, less 
exposed to European short haul, are barely higher. Brighter global economic skies ahead would help. Ominously, 
however, Lufthansa also warned on profits in its cargo operations. The unit accounts for just 7 per cent of revenues 
but as global economic worries rise, it foreshadows weakness in the long haul business, which has held up so far. 
Fewer packages in the hold are another reason Lufthansa’s shareholder patience will be sorely tested. 
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Please tell us what you think in the comments section 
below.
Load-Date: June 19, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair branches into Malta with new subsidiary
Ryanair branches into Malta with new subsidiary
 
FT.com
June 11, 2019 Tuesday 4:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 476 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair is creating a new subsidiary by buying a Maltese start-up airline, which will help it fulfil staff 
promises in contract negotiations.
Ryanair will move its six existing Malta-based aircraft into the new airline, called Malta Air, and will increase that to 
10 within three years.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary said: “Malta Air will proudly fly the Maltese name and flag to over 60 destinations 
across Europe and north Africa as we look to grow our Maltese-based fleet, routes, traffic and jobs over the next 
three years.”
He said Ryanair hoped to register more than 50 aircraft in Malta in the coming years.
Malta tourism minister Konrad Mizzi said: “We welcome Ryanair’s commitment to operate and grow a fully fledged 
Malta-based airline which will contribute in a large way to the country’s development.”
Ryanair will also transfer aircraft based in France, Italy and Germany into the new airline, “which will allow these 
crews to pay their income taxes locally in France, Italy and Germany instead of Ireland”, the airline said.
After Ryanair agreed to recognise its workers’ unions for the first time in late 2017, one of the pilots’ and cabin 
crews’ key demands was paying tax in their home locations, since that brought them national rights.
Ryanair branches into Malta with new subsidiary
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said the Maltese move was “an economic way of fulfilling its promises to those 
key markets that would like to pay local taxes”.
During negotiations, Ryanair experienced several days of strikes, including concerted efforts across Europe leading 
to the cancellation of hundreds of flights.
In February, Ryanair said it would move in the next year “to a group structure not dissimilar to that of IAG”, owner of 
British Airways and Iberia, with a small senior management team overseeing existing subsidiaries Ryanair Lauda, 
based in Austria, Buzz, based in Poland, and Ryanair in the UK.
Ms Leonard pointed to concerns that another subsidiary would “start fragmenting the Ryanair brand . . . which 
doesn’t make sense, given the strength of the Ryanair brand globally and the clout it has”.
While Malta in general has lower tax rates and generous deductions, and aviation-specific benefits such as no 
stamp duty on aircraft, Michelle de Maria, director of taxation at Maltese law firm Chetcuti Cauchi, said tax alone 
was an unlikely incentive: “The tax position in isolation wouldn’t be sufficient, especially for companies like this 
which are going to have people on the ground — they need the infrastructure to work.”
Ryanair will move 200 Malta-based crew into the new airline and intends to create 350 more jobs there.
The airline’s branding — Malta Air — may cause confusion given that Malta’s lossmaking national airline is called 
Air Malta, but could pave the way for the latter to concentrate on long-haul flights, leaving short-haul to the Ryanair 
subsidiary.
Load-Date: June 11, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair moves to publish monthly CO2 figures
Ryanair moves to publish monthly CO2 figures
 
FT.com
June 5, 2019 Wednesday 5:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 429 words
Byline: Leslie Hook
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has for the first time published monthly figures for its carbon dioxide emissions, in the face of 
growing pressure on the industry to reduce its  environmental impact.
Ryanair’s figures show it emitted 1.2m tonnes of carbon dioxide in May, roughly the same amount that New York 
City produces in a week.
The figures, which represent the first time a European airline has published monthly CO2 data, come as  Ryanair 
faces mounting pressure from consumers and environmental groups over its emissions.
Recent data from the European emissions trading scheme revealed it as one of the scheme’s top 10 carbon 
emitters in Europe.
Ryanair said that despite the large headline figure, its emission were lower on a per person, per kilometre basis 
than most other airlines. Ryanair flights are almost always full, and have no business or first class, making them 
more carbon efficient than some rivals.
Ryanair’s chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said that the airline wanted to be Europe’s “greenest” and planned 
to invest more $20bn in a new fleet of Boeing 737s that will be more efficient.
Over the past decade, the company had reduced its emissions per passenger / per kilometre by 18 per cent, he 
pointed out.
Ryanair moves to publish monthly CO2 figures
However, emissions trading data show that Ryanair’s total emissions have been rising as it expands, outstripping 
gains from better efficiency.
Andrew Murphy, aviation manager at Transport and Environment, an environmental group based in Brussels, said 
the publication of monthly CO2 data by Ryanair would “throw down the gauntlet” to other airlines.
“Aviation is the fastest-growing source of emissions in Europe,” he said. “If we leave it unchecked, it will undo a lot 
of the progress that we are making in other sectors.”
Airlines are under growing pressure to reduce their climate impact, a difficult task because there are currently no 
viable alternatives to jet-fuelled aircraft. 
Because aeroplanes fly high in the atmosphere, their CO2 emissions have more impact, and they also generate 
vapour trails that contribute to global warming by trapping heat.
In Europe, airlines have grown to be among the top emitters — displacing heavy industry such as coal-fired power 
plants — as air travel has increased. 
Flights within the EU are governed by its emissions trading scheme, meaning that airlines must cover those 
emissions with carbon credits, however long-haul flights from outside Europe are not included in the scheme.
Ryanair’s climate goal is to reduce emissions to 60 grammes of CO2 per person per kilometre by 2030, down from 
66g on average today.
Load-Date: June 6, 2019
End of Document
European shares/Brexit: exchanges of fire
European shares/Brexit: exchanges of fire
 
FT.com
May 29, 2019 Wednesday 4:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 367 words
Body
Hear a bugle sounding a retreat? The threat of a no-deal Brexit has put UK and EU stock market regulators on 
battle stations. In March, the European Securities and Markets Authority warned that EU fund managers would 
have to use exchanges on the continent — rather than London venues — to trade 14 important London-listed 
stocks. On Wednesday, it admitted defeat and tore up the plan. That was positive for investors. They may still suffer 
collateral damage in a Brussels/London stand-off. 
ESMA’s retreat recognised London’s importance as a global market. EU asset managers wanted to trade there for 
deepest liquidity and best prices. They could have traded the 14 stocks on EU venues. The idea, however, of a 
German fund manager having to buy Vodafone shares in Berlin was silly. 
The battle is not over. Esma still wants shares in selected companies from the remaining 27 EU countries traded on 
EU venues, even if they are listed in London or it is the most liquid market. IAG, the airline business registered in 
Spain, and Ireland’s Ryanair would be ensnared.
The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority has not said how it might retaliate. One option would be to force UK asset 
managers to trade EU companies’ shares only in London. That would hit EU venues — and further fragment 
European markets.
 London regulators should hold fire. Both sides are mutually dependent. EU companies benefit from being able to 
raise funds in the UK. London’s openness boosts its international standing. Liquidity begets liquidity. An orderly 
Brexit might yet be possible, allowing a deal on share trading. 
European shares/Brexit: exchanges of fire
London would like an “equivalence” regime — EU recognition of its rules. That would be politically difficult for 
Brussels, implying EU benefits can be had without membership obligations. Switzerland — outside the EU — may 
lose stock market equivalence if it does not sign up to new trading arrangements. Nevertheless, if Brexit happens, a 
peace deal which benefits shareholders would benefit the EU and London too. 
Lex publishes two popular newsletters for premium subscribers. Wednesday: Lex Letter From London, New York or 
San Francisco. Fridays: Best of Lex, a weekly round-up. Please sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: May 30, 2019
End of Document
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet , Sage, JustEat
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet, Sage, JustEat
 
FT.com
May 24, 2019 Friday 5:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1696 words
Byline: Investors Chronicle reporters
Body
Buy: EasyJet (EZJ)
The trade is not without risk, but we still think it is outweighed by the current yield on offer, writes Tom Dines.
The recent results from On the Beach and Thomas Cook have both underlined just how challenging the travel 
market is at the moment. Now, easyJet (EZJ) is joining the chorus, warning of a drop in per-seat revenues in the 
second half of the financial year.
Brexit-related uncertainty and a broader macroeconomic slowdown in Europe have both contributed to the malaise, 
offsetting operational initiatives such as improving its pricing algorithms and speeding up the development of 
product bundles. In an attempt to counter the negative macro environment, management is focusing on customer 
service and on-time performance. Its efforts appear to be paying off — over Easter, the group has had no flight 
cancellations and only eight, three-hour delays from 7,300 scheduled services. But you’re left with the impression 
that the impact of any in-house measures is negligible in the face of external factors.
However, it’s not as if passenger numbers have fallen off a cliff. Around 41.6m travellers took to the skies with 
easyJet, a 13.3 per cent increase on the first half of full-year 2018, and only slightly adrift of the rise in capacity over 
the same period. Hence, the load factor (capacity utilisation) was down a percentage point to 90.1 per cent — 
hardly a catastrophe.
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet , Sage, JustEat
The main trouble is that unit costs have been rising. The group had to contend with rising hedged fuel costs, up 7.1 
per cent at constant currencies, while bearing an estimated £10m in cancellations and related passenger welfare 
costs from drone disruption at Gatwick. These issues, along with inflationary cost pressures, such as higher 
regulated airport charges, drove the per-seat spend up 3.9 per cent.
Conversely, revenue per seat decreased by 7.4 per cent at constant currencies, though the group said top-line 
comparisons were skewed due to the application of the new IFRS 15 accounting standard, the cancellation of 
Ryanair’s winter schedule in the UK, and the annualisation of prior year benefits such as Monarch’s bankruptcy. 
The outlook is mixed. Management lowered guidance for constant-currency revenue per seat, now saying it will be 
down over the full-year. What’s more, forward bookings for the third quarter are three percentage points behind last 
year at 72 per cent while fourth-quarter bookings are flat at 34 per cent. Luckily, costs per-seat are also expected to 
fall — assuming normal levels of disruption — and so the group is maintaining its adjusted pre-tax profit guidance. 
Broker Numis expects full-year pre-tax profits of £415m giving earnings per share of 83.6p, compared with £578m 
and 117.4p in full-year 2018. 
Hold: Halfords (HFD)
Halfords’ motoring experience should give it a leg up serving cyclists, but the forward rating of 10 times forecast 
earnings is hardly a vote of confidence, writes Alex Hamer.
Halfords Group (HFD) spent £2m on strategy consultants last year. It’s not a huge number for a company trying to 
work out its place in the world, but the company itself has not forecast any profit recovery in the near future. 
The effort to improve sales saw Halfords boosting capital spending on Cycle Republic stores (adding three new 
ones), signed a distribution deal with premium folding bike firm Brompton, and has pledged to be more service-
focused. 
But this remains the same Halfords that caused a major sell off in January when it released a profit warning 
complaining about the mild winter weather. Despite the cycling focus, 60 per cent of its revenue still comes from 
auto-related sales.
As warned in January, Halfords’ underlying pre-tax profit for the 12 months to March 31 fell 18 per cent on the year 
before to £58.8m, at the low end of revised guidance. Liberum had forecast almost £70m before the company said 
the numbers were not tracking as hoped.
Chief executive Graham Stapleton said “extremely mild” weather in the year had hit sales related to cars. 
There was a positive from the warmer winter weather, however: the conditions encouraged cycling buyers, who 
forked out 2.6 per cent more year-on-year. Electric bike sales also grew 47 per cent year-on-year on a like-for-like 
basis, and are now 11 per cent of bike sales. Halfords is positive about this trend but said overall conditions would 
not pick up immediately.
Sell: Just Eat (JE.)
Just Eat is on a collision course with two of the world’s largest technology companies, and its recent trading update 
suggests it may be starting to feel the effects, writes Tom Dines.
Just Eat’s prospects got a little darker last week, after food delivery service Deliveroo announced Amazon would 
lead it in a $575m (£444m) fundraising round, potentially strengthening one of Just Eat’s most prominent rivals at a 
time when its business model is coming under increasing pressure.
The UK-listed food delivery group has faced stiffening competition in recent years, as Deliveroo and Uber Eats have 
each bid to become the market’s dominant player. Uber (US: UBER) has raised $8bn through its — admittedly 
somewhat disappointing — initial public offering, and this latest fundraising from Deliveroo will give both companies 
ample capital to invest.
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet , Sage, JustEat
Deliveroo is planning to plough part of the money raised into its delivery-only “super kitchens”, while Uber Founder 
Travis Kalanick recently acquired a UK start-up that operates “dark kitchens” — also delivery only. Broker Peel Hunt 
says Just Eat is currently unable to invest in the format itself without bringing on further investment.
Shares in Just Eat were down 8 per cent following the announcement, having already fallen close to a tenth since 
the group’s trading update for the three months to March revealed order growth that was below consensus during 
the period.
The threat from Uber and Deliveroo formed the basis of Peel Hunt’s decision to take its recommendation for Just 
Eat’s share from a buy to a sell in October last year. However, broker Liberum believes fears for the company are 
overdone, pointing out that Just Eat is the number one player in its markets, with its UK market share an estimated 
three to four times larger than Deliveroo and Uber combined. Instead, it argues Just Eat and overseas rivals 
Delivery Hero and Takeaway.com “are likely to become [acquisition] targets with several possible buyers.
Indeed, the group has come under pressure from Cat Rock Capital, an activist investor, to consider a merger to 
boost growth and take on its ascendant rivals. It released a statement following Deliveroo’s announcement, arguing 
that it “highlights the opportunity for Just Eat’s board to create value for all shareholders by participating in global 
consolidation”.
Chris Dillow: Housing market weakness
What’s happening to  house prices? Nationwide Building Society is likely to report next week that they’ve risen by 
about 1 per cent in the past 12 months. Even this, though, might overstate the strength of the market.
To see why, consider what happens to prices when demand tends to fall. In theory, they could immediately drop to 
attract new buyers, with the result that it is prices rather than volumes that respond to lower demand. This, 
however, does not happen in the housing market. Instead, sellers either hold out for high prices (“my house is worth 
more than that”) and so don’t see their property sell, or they take it off the market, or don’t put it on in the first place.
This means that price indices are upwardly biased when demand is weak, because it is only the best properties that 
sell. Nationwide’s index measures prices at the time that mortgages are approved. This means that if a potential 
buyer walks away because asking prices are too high, no approval occurs so no price is registered. It also means 
that reported prices don’t capture “gazundering”, when a buyer demands a lower price than previously agreed — a 
phenomenon that seems to have re-emerged recently.
Of course, this cuts both ways. When demand booms, price indices are downwardly biased because even rubbish 
is selling. And it applies not just to housing but to all markets where sellers have reservation prices, such as in 
antiques or art.
Nevertheless, it has some important implications. One is that, over time, prices are more volatile that headline 
indices suggest. Yale University’s Will Goetzmann has estimated that prices in Los Angeles are one-third more 
volatile than standard indices imply. Applying this to the Nationwide’s index suggests that the chance of prices 
falling 10 per cent or more over a 12-month period is three times as high as the index would suggest (about 6 per 
cent versus 2 per cent).
This means, of course, that housing is a riskier investment than reported data imply. In fact, this is true in two other 
senses as well. One is that none of us holds a representative bundle of houses but (usually) just the one. And just 
as individual shares are riskier than the All-Share index, so individual houses are riskier than the index. The other is 
that a market downturn doesn’t just see prices fall but also sees liquidity dry up. That’s catastrophic for anybody 
needing to raise cash quickly.
We have mixed signals on how big a problem all this is right now. Certainly, demand is weak. The Royal Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors (Rics) reports a “sustained fall in new buyer interest” and figures from the Bank of England 
next week could show mortgage approvals at their lowest level since December 2017. The Rics also reports a drop 
in the number of people putting their homes up for sale, which implies there might be a selection bias causing 
Investors Chronicle: EasyJet , Sage, JustEat
prices to be overstated, to the extent that it is lower-quality properties being withheld from the market. But on the 
plus side, it has found that vendors have recently become more realistic in their asking prices.
Net, though, it’s very possible that the housing market is weaker than headline numbers suggest.
Chris Dillow is an economics commentator for Investors Chronicle
The Financial Times and its journalism, including Investors Chronicle content, are subject to a self-regulation 
regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice:  FT.com/editorialcode
Load-Date: May 24, 2019
End of Document
SpiceJet expects Boeing jets to be in air by July
SpiceJet expects Boeing jets to be in air by July
 
FT.com
May 22, 2019 Wednesday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 602 words
Byline: Stephanie Findlay
Body
SpiceJet, one of India’s largest private airlines, said it expects its Boeing 737 Max 8 jets to be back in the air by 
July, in a vote of confidence for the plane that has crashed twice in five months. 
SpiceJet is one of Boeing’s biggest global customers for the 737 Max 8 jets, with 13 in its fleet and a pending order 
for 192 more Max aircraft by 2025 as it plans to expand its capacity in the world’s fastest-growing domestic aviation 
market. 
“We expect that they will fly in July,”  SpiceJet chairman and managing director Ajay Singh told the Financial Times 
in an interview at his office on New Delhi’s outskirts. “We are confident that it’s a great plane. It’s a completely safe 
aircraft, so we are waiting for the regulators to take that view.”
Global regulators are meeting on Thursday to consider when the Boeing 737 Max can return to the skies following 
the two deadly crashes in October and March that have undermined the reputation of the world’s largest 
commercial aircraft maker.
The US regulator, the Federal Aviation Administration, is in discussions to give the plane full certification by the end 
of June after software fixes, paving the way for regulators around the world to clear the best-selling jet to fly.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary said on Monday he expected the Max to be flying in North America by the 
end of June. He added that Europe’s aviation safety agency, EASA, “will take another month”. 
SpiceJet expects Boeing jets to be in air by July
Some countries, including Indonesia, where the Lion Air 737 Max crashed in October last year, have indicated they 
may take more time to review the plane and train pilots. But Mr Singh said he did not anticipate regulatory delays in 
India.
India’s aviation sector has gone through a tumultuous few months with skyrocketing air fares and a severe shortage 
of seats following the April collapse of Jet Airways, India’s oldest private carrier. 
Despite the difficulties, Mr Singh, who controls 51 per cent of SpiceJet after it almost collapsed in 2014, expressed 
optimism about the future of the aviation industry in India.
A key architect of Narendra Modi’s winning election campaign in 2014, Mr Singh said he was confident that if Mr 
Modi secures a second term this month the government would overhaul the sector and “remove bottlenecks”, 
starting with reducing punitive taxes on jet fuel.
“We are close to making that a reality,” said Mr Singh. “We’ve discussed this with the central government as well as 
with state governments and there seems to be consensus that this needs to happen and we hope that with the new 
government coming in this can happen quickly.”
India’s carriers are vulnerable to spikes in the oil price and a weakening rupee. Fuel makes up 34 per cent of 
operating costs for the country’s airlines, far above the global average of 24 per cent, according to the International 
Air Transport Association.
A surge in oil prices precipitated Jet’s collapse and contributed to the demise of Kingfisher Airlines, which crumbled 
under a mountain of debt in 2012. 
“It made me feel sad that an airline of Jet’s size and a brand as iconic as Jet should go down,” said Mr Singh, who 
has been dubbed the “turnround man” after rescuing SpiceJet in 2014.
Mr Singh founded SpiceJet in 2005 after serving as a Bharatiya Janata party appointee on the board of the Delhi 
Transport Corporation, a state-run bus service, and national broadcast network Doordarshan. 
He exited the airline five years later before coming back as a white knight, injecting $100m to keep the carrier alive 
— and sparing Mr Modi’s administration the headache of a collapsed carrier months after coming into power.
Load-Date: May 22, 2019
End of Document
Former F1 racing champion Niki Lauda dies aged 70
Former F1 racing champion Niki Lauda dies aged 70
 
FT.com
May 21, 2019 Tuesday 10:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 552 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick and agencies
Body
Niki Lauda, the three-time Formula One world champion and airline executive who was one of the most 
recognisable names in motorsport in the 1970s, has died at the age of 70. 
The Austrian, who won the drivers’ championship in 1975 and 1977 with the Ferrari team and again in 1984 at the 
wheel of a McLaren, “passed away peacefully” on Monday, according to a statement by his family reported by the 
Austria Press Agency. 
“His unique successes as a sportsman and entrepreneur are and remain unforgettable,” the family statement said. 
“His tireless drive, his straightforwardness and his courage remain an example and standard for us all.”
F1 said in a Twitter post: “Rest in peace Niki Lauda. Forever carried in our hearts, forever immortalised in our 
history. The motorsport community today mourns the devastating loss of a true legend.”
Lauda had a history of comebacks. A year after his debut title, he suffered horrific burns when his car hit a bank and 
burst into flames during the German Grand Prix at the Nürburgring. His injuries were so severe that he was 
administered the last rites.
“The main damage to myself was from inhaling all the flames and fumes while I was sitting in the car for about 50 
seconds,” Lauda said many years later, according to the Press Association. “It was something like 800 degrees.”
He would carry the scars from that crash for the rest of his life. Yet he made a remarkable recovery and returned to 
motor racing just six weeks later, going on to reclaim his title the following year.
Former F1 racing champion Niki Lauda dies aged 70
His fierce rivalry with the British driver James Hunt, who won the title in 1976, became a part of F1 legend and the 
subject of the 2013 film Rush.
He left F1 in the late 1970s and began a successful career as an aviation entrepreneur, returning to the sport in 
1982 with the McLaren team to take the third of his world titles two years later. 
He first founded Lauda Air, later bought by Austrian Airlines, and then the low-cost carrier Niki, which was sold to 
Air Berlin before it entered insolvency proceedings in 2017 as a casualty of its struggling German parent’s 
combination with Lufthansa. 
Lauda  reacquired Niki last year, beating British Airways owner IAG to the purchase. He renamed the airline 
Laudamotion and sold a majority stake months later to Ryanair for a price the Irish carrier described as “less than 
€50m”. The Irish budget airline then bought the rest of the business. 
In a statement, Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, hailed Lauda as a “visionary leader” and “exceptional 
entrepreneur” whose “courage and fighting spirit inspired millions”.
He remained a hugely popular figure in the F1 community. Toto Wolff, team principal at the Mercedes team, where 
Lauda was non-executive chairman, said: “Niki will always remain one of the greatest legends of our sport — he 
combined heroism, humanity and honesty inside and outside the cockpit.”
Nico Rosberg, 2016 world champion with Mercedes, said: “Thank you for everything that you did for me. I learned 
so much from you. Your passion, your fighting spirit, to never give up, your belief that you always meet twice in life, 
and even your patience with us youngsters.”
Sebastian Kurz, Austrian chancellor, said: “Niki, we will miss you . . . The whole country and the motor sports world 
are mourning a really great Austrian.”
Load-Date: May 22, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary pledges to drive out rivals
Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary pledges to drive out rivals
 
FT.com
May 20, 2019 Monday 12:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 582 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary warned on Monday that the airline would grow as fast as possible, even if 
it means “painful” cuts to fares to drive out rivals from the market.
Other European airlines have blamed a rise in passenger seats for pushing down prices, but Mr O’Leary said 
Ryanair would “keep the foot to the pedal . . . Will it be painful for a year or two? Yes, it will. But will it shake out 
more of the competition? Yes, it will.”
Mr O’Leary was speaking as Ryanair reported a 30 per cent drop in pre-tax profits to €948m in the year to March 
2019 because of rising fuel costs and losses from its new Austrian subsidiary Laudamotion. Excluding the Austrian 
airline, pre-tax profit was €1.1bn.
Shares in the carrier fell almost 6 per cent after the results were announced, but recovered to trade flat by mid-
afternoon in London.
Mr O’Leary said fast growth in the number of seats on short-haul routes and the shift of the Easter holiday into the 
next financial year had pushed down fares by 6 per cent during the year to €37.
However, because of the lower fares and strong ancillary revenues — extras on top of the ticket price — total 
revenue rose 6 per cent to €7.7bn, just ahead of the consensus expectation among analysts.
“With some degree of happiness we will suck up price falls in the next six to 12 months,” Mr O’Leary said. Ryanair’s 
strategy is “load-active”, which means filling its planes even at lower fares.
Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary pledges to drive out rivals
Several other European airlines have also blamed fuel costs, overcapacity and the move of Easter for recent poor 
results, including easyJet last week. 
Mr O’Leary is betting that other airlines — he cited Norwegian and travel operator Thomas Cook — will struggle to 
withstand severe competition from low prices, given other problems, and said that it would be “seismic” in terms of 
market capacity if they failed.
Kathryn Leonard, an analyst at Numis, said Ryanair’s shares had dropped on below-consensus guidance for 2020. 
They recovered, she said, because “people are willing to accept the fact that management has said to expect lower 
profitability for the next couple of years” in return for gaining market share as the European sector consolidates.
Mr O’Leary said Ryanair had postponed delivery of about 50 Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft, which have been grounded 
after two fatal crashes killed 346 people, and would start taking them in November, assuming they had been 
approved by global regulators.
“Our sense is that the Max will be back flying in North America by the end of June or sometime in July,” Mr O’Leary 
said, adding that EASA, Europe’s aviation safety agency, “will take another month”.
He said the company would have use of the Max 8s for “as little as two or three months” of this year, rather than the 
planned six, nor would it benefit from planned cost savings with the plane until 2021.
Post-tax profit excluding Laudamotion came in at €1.02bn, at the low end of Ryanair’s guidance after a January 
profit warning. Fuel costs rose 23 per cent to €2.4bn, while staff costs increased 28 per cent to €945m as new pay 
deals with pilot and cabin crew unions came into effect.
The group also announced a €700m share buyback programme, amounting to a total of nearly €7bn returned to 
shareholders since 2008.
In the year to March 2020, Mr O’Leary said Ryanair’s outlook “remains cautious on pricing” and that group profit 
would be “broadly flat”, between €750m and €950m. He warned that Ryanair’s fuel bill would rise by €460m, or 19 
per cent, to €2.9bn.
Load-Date: May 21, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair: jockey clubbed
Ryanair: jockey clubbed
 
FT.com
May 20, 2019 Monday 2:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 373 words
Body
Among steeplechase horse races, the British  Grand National ranks as one of the toughest endurance tests for man 
and animal. Michael O’Leary’s horse won in April for a second year running. Similarly, Mr O’Leary expects his 
airline Ryanair can outlast its higher-cost rivals by expanding his fleet to reach 200m customers by 2024, up nearly 
half. That will not come cheap.
Ryanair as frontrunner on costs was long taken for granted. Punters will have started to lay off bets as the airline’s 
operating margins have dropped. Monday’s full-year results report underscored this. Profitability fell to 13 per cent 
in the year to March, down more than 10 percentage points in twelve months, and the lowest in five years. That 
partly explains a 12 times price to forward earnings multiple, at the lower end of its ten-year range. Paying more for 
plane jockeys — up more than €200m — and fuel got the blame. The latter pressure comes and goes. 
Longstanding fuel hedging means this is unlikely to be a threat. 
However, unionising staff is relatively new for Ryanair, and its shareholders. Leaping over those staff costs gets 
tougher each year, up 17 per cent annually for the past three years. Delays to deliveries of the Boeing 737 Max only 
added to the woes as hoped-for cost savings from a larger, more fuel-efficient plane will come later than planned. 
Traders tore up their betting slips watching Ryanair’s share price sink more than 5 per cent early on. Its shares 
have gone nowhere for four years.
Mr O’Leary can point to some wins. Selling stuff to folks trapped on his flights, or to those wanting to store luggage 
in the hold, still brings in income. This profitable ancillary revenue rose nearly a fifth to €2.4bn last year, a third of 
the group’s. It offset all the increases in expenses elsewhere. Good, but there are questions about prospects at 
Ryanair’s core, excluding growth from newish regional carriers, Lauda and Buzz, Bernstein says.
Ryanair: jockey clubbed
An outlook for after-tax profits of as much as a quarter down on last year gives little reason to cheer. Mr O’Leary 
needs to use his whip hand more on costs.
Lex recommends the FT’s Due Diligence newsletter, a curated briefing on the world of mergers and acquisitions. 
Sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: May 22, 2019
End of Document
Opening Quote: Low fares take their toll on Ryanair
Opening Quote: Low fares take their toll on Ryanair
 
FT.com
May 20, 2019 Monday 8:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 917 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
Low fares are hurting Ryanair. At an average of just €37, you might think they don’t have much further to fall. But 
the airline warned this morning that bookings for the first two months of its new financial year are at still lower 
prices, and that it expects the trend to continue through the rest of the summer. 
As fares are falling, passenger numbers are climbing. A 6 per cent decline in fares over the past financial year was 
matched by a 7 per cent increase in passenger numbers, excluding Laudamotion, the Austrian airline Ryanair 
bought in December. 
Short-haul capacity growth (otherwise known as overcapacity) and the absence of Easter in the final quarter of the 
year were to blame for the fare decline. Both problems are familiar to the rest of the industry. Other challenges are 
also common to travel industry operators such as easyJet and Tui: high fuel costs and issues with the Boeing 737 
Max (Ryanair has delayed the delivery of its first five planes until winter, meaning it won’t see any cost benefits from 
them until the 2021 financial year). 
Pre-tax profits for the year to March fell 30 per cent, excluding Laudamotion, or 40 per cent including the impact of 
the acquisition. Next year, profits including Laudamotion, should hold “broadly flat” but revenue per passenger has 
to pick up by 3 per cent. To get there requires things to start going Ryanair’s way: pricing to go as expected, no 
terror attacks, and no negative Brexit developments. It does not have much room for manoeuvre. 
Opening Quote: Low fares take their toll on Ryanair
Briefly 
Foxtons, the London-focused estate agency, said revenues were down again amid a “very challenging” property 
market. At least that was no worse than the board had expected for the first quarter of the year. April was much the 
same, disappointing those property-owners in the capital who might have hoped for an Easter revival. 
BP is the latest company to get hit by environmental protests. Greenpeace says volunteers have “encased 
themselves in specially designed, toughened containers weighing several tonnes each” outside the oil major’s 
corporate headquarters in St James’s Square. 
Softcat, the IT infrastructure group that has a habit of outperforming, said that once again it expected results to be 
ahead of previous expectations — although this time only “slightly”. Its financial year ends in July. 
Job moves
David McMillan has been appointed chief executive of esure, the insurer behind Sheilas’ Wheels that was taken 
private last year in a £1.2bn deal. McMillan joins in August from Australian rival QBE. He replaces Stuart Vann, who 
left in January last year without a succession plan. Darren Ogden has been serving as interim chief executive. 
Sony/ATV, the music publishing group, has revamped its UK management team. David Ventura and Tim Major 
have been appointed to head up its UK operations. Mr Ventura comes from the creative side of the business, where 
he has worked with Clean Bandit and Skepta among others. Mr Major’s career has lacked some of that glamour: 
he’s a lawyer.
We’re looking to feature more job moves. If you’re in senior management and moving jobs or you know 
someone who is, let us know about it at 
Markets speed-read 
Oil prices rallied on Monday after Saudi Arabia said it would back sustained Opec production cuts. Brent crude 
climbed 1.3 per cent to $73.18 a barrel after Saudi Arabia’s energy minister said inventories needed to shrink and 
that the kingdom would prefer Opec maintain output cuts in the second half of the year. US marker West Texas 
Intermediate was up 1.3 per cent at $63.57. Elsewhere in markets, a sense of cautious optimism toward global 
stocks left investors looking toward a steady open in Europe after a positive run in much of Asia. 
 Sign up here to Market Forces, Mike Mackenzie’s daily analysis of what’s moving global markets
Beyond the Square Mile
Google has dealt a blow to Huawei’s fast-growing consumer smartphone business by suspending the delivery of 
key software and technical services to the Chinese company.
Boeing faces a crucial test this week as global regulators meet in Texas to determine when the grounded 737 Max 
aircraft will return to the air. Regulators from countries including China, the EU, Canada and Brazil will meet to 
review Boeing’s application to get the 737 Max aircraft back in the air after it grounded after being involved in two 
crashes that killed 346 people.
An internal Wirecard spreadsheet shows that three partner companies contributed half the sales and more than 90 
per cent of the profits to the scandal-hit German payments group in 2016 and early 2017.
With China poised to cull a third of its pig herd due to African swine fever, Omnipork, with its mix of peas, soy and 
mushroom proteins, is hoping to step into the gap and replicate the success of Beyond Meat and Impossible 
Foods.
Opening Quote: Low fares take their toll on Ryanair
Schrödinger, the drug discovery computing platform backed by Bill Gates, hedge fund manager David E. Shaw 
and Google Ventures, has closed its latest financing round at $110m, as investors back its new plan to develop its 
own drugs.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Patrick Jenkins
Goldman Sachs should buy Deutsche Bank to become a dominant force in Europe and to rival global leader 
JPMorgan Chase.
Jonathan Ford
Labour is right: Britain’s private utility model is broken. High returns from private monopolies cannot be justified.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: May 20, 2019
End of Document
Lufthansa makes offer for Thomas Cook’s Condor business
Lufthansa makes offer for Thomas Cook’s Condor business
 
FT.com
May 7, 2019 Tuesday 3:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 478 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa chief executive, said the carrier had made an offer for Thomas Cook’s German airline 
business, sending shares in the embattled UK tour company up more than 10 per cent.
Lufthansa had been widely seen as a likely bidder for the Thomas Cook business, which trades under the name 
Condor and was once owned by Lufthansa. Bids for the airline were due by Tuesday.
Although the European Commission is likely to demand some remedies if Lufthansa agrees a purchase, Mr Spohr 
told the airline’s annual shareholder meeting that it is the only possible purchaser that would not break up Condor. 
He added that Lufthansa might also look to buy Thomas Cook’s British and Scandinavian airlines.
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said Condor made Thomas Cook “the fourth-largest airline group [in 
Germany] behind Lufthansa, Ryanair and easyJet”, so its acquisition “would give Lufthansa a chance to further 
consolidate its home market and strengthen its competitive positioning — if approved by the competition 
authorities”.
 Shares in Thomas Cook have tumbled more than 80 per cent in the past 12 months as online competition and 
discounting by rivals triggered two profit warnings. After a further slide in its shares and bonds last week, the 
company sought to reassure investors by disclosing that it was in talks with lenders to ensure it had a “liquidity 
buffer” to cope with the tougher winter trading period. 
Lufthansa makes offer for Thomas Cook’s Condor business
Thomas Cook did not disclose the names of other bidders, but a source close to the company said there had been 
“more than one bid but less than 10”.
Lufthansa, which also owns the Swiss, Austrian and Eurowings carriers, first voiced an interest in buying the long-
haul operations of Condor in February. The German company has become more confident that EU regulators would 
permit it to buy Condor’s short-haul operations as long as it agrees to sell some routes, according to a person 
familiar with the situation.
In the late 1990s, Condor was part of Lufthansa, which sold its final 25 per cent stake to Thomas Cook in 2009. The 
travel company’s airline division reported strong growth in 2018, despite facing industry-wide disruption, with 20m 
passengers and £3.5bn sales, while underlying operating profits rose 37 per cent in the year to £129m.
If Lufthansa does take over one or all of Thomas Cook’s airlines, it would simplify the sale of the larger Thomas 
Cook business, because EU rules require airlines based in the bloc to be owned by European investors. Chinese 
group Fosun International, which is Thomas Cook’s largest shareholder with a 17 per cent stake, is said to be 
interested in bidding for the rest of the business, according to one person close to the company.
Shares in Thomas Cook rose 11 per cent in late afternoon trading, while those in Lufthansa fell 1.2 per cent.
Additional reporting by Patricia Nilsson and Tom Hancock
Load-Date: May 8, 2019
End of Document
Brent crude hits 2019 high on heightened supply concerns
Brent crude hits 2019 high on heightened supply concerns
 
FT.com
April 23, 2019 Tuesday 10:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 504 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Siddarth Shrikanth in Hong Kong
Body
Crude prices rose to a five-month high on Tuesday, as Washington’s decision to end sanctions waivers on Iranian 
oil imports buoyed markets for a second day and sent shares in some of the world’s biggest energy companies 
higher. 
Brent crude, the international oil benchmark, rose as much as 0.8 per cent to $74.64 a barrel, adding to gains on 
Monday to reach its highest level since early November before falling back slightly to $74.43 by late morning in 
London. West Texas Intermediate, the US marker, increased 0.7 per cent to $66.02. 
Oil’s sharp rally boosted European oil majors, with BP rising 2.3 per cent and Royal Dutch Shell 1.9 per cent higher 
in London after investors returned from Monday’s bank holiday. Overall, the Stoxx 600 index of European oil and 
gas groups was on course for its best day in nearly four months, up 1.9 per cent. 
Shares in major airlines, which are particularly sensitive to fluctuating fuel prices, suffered. EasyJet fell 4.2 per cent, 
while British Airways parent company IAG was down 3.8 per cent. Ryanair slipped 4.6 per cent and was on course 
for its worst day since December. 
The moves came after the Trump administration announced the end of waivers from US sanctions granted to India, 
China, Japan, South Korea and Turkey, some of Iran’s largest customers. The US is now demanding that countries 
no longer import any oil from Iran. 
Brent crude hits 2019 high on heightened supply concerns
Oil prices jumped despite the  White House insisting that it had worked with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab 
Emirates to ensure sufficient supply to offset the loss of Iranian exports.
UBS said it expects Saudi Arabia and its allies “to cautiously react to customers need rather than preemptively 
ramp up production,” but noted that there is still plenty of capacity to offset a decline in Iranian exports. 
Brent crude is now almost 50 per cent above late December’s 17-month low, as the Opec cartel of oil producers 
have cut production, and sanctions on Iran and Venezuela have tightened supply in global markets. 
“Amid seasonally higher oil demand into the summer, the oil market is likely to be very sensitive to any further 
disruptions in Libya, Venezuela or Nigeria,” UBS analysts said in note. 
Goldman Sachs said the timing of the sanctions tightening was “much more sudden” than expected, but it played 
down the longer-term impact on the market. 
“While we acknowledge the near-term upside price risks, we reiterate our fundamentally derived Brent price trading 
range of $70-75 per barrel for the second quarter of 2019,” Goldman analysts said in a note.
The bank highlighted the relatively small move in oil prices given the loss of up to 1.3m barrels a day of Iranian 
exports. This reflects “a much greater confidence in available spare capacity,” Goldman said.
In currency markets, the Norwegian krone and Canadian dollar both rose against the US dollar as currencies of oil-
exporting countries gained. 
Wall Street saw its biggest one-day rise for the energy sector since January on Monday, with the S&P 500’s energy 
sector rising 2.1 per cent.
Load-Date: April 24, 2019
End of Document
The London Report: Liability fears send Reckitt tumbling
The London Report: Liability fears send Reckitt tumbling
 
FT.com
April 10, 2019 Wednesday 5:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 194 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Reckitt Benckiser was the FTSE 100’s sharpest faller as Indivior, the drug company that it spun out in 2014, 
crashed by more than 70 per cent. 
Indivior said it had been indicted by the US Department of Justice on charges of boosting sales by illicit marketing 
practices since 2010, with the prosecutor seeking damages in excess of $3bn.
The news was a potentially fatal blow for Indivior and would be paralysing for Reckitt, which may pause plans to 
spin off its home care brands until its liabilities were known, said analysts. 
Security group G4S jumped after Canadian peer Garda World confirmed it was weighing up a bid for all or part of 
the security services group.
Stagecoach hit its lowest in a decade after the Department for Transport threw the company off all three bid 
shortlists for UK rail franchises, citing its pension liabilities. 
Ryanair slipped after Goodbody took the airline off its “buy” list. 
Results next month were unlikely to be upbeat given weakening summer season demand, rising fuel prices and 
extra costs related to the delayed delivery of Boeing 737 Max jets, the broker said. 
Defence group Qinetiq faded on an Investec downgrade to “hold”. 
The London Report: Liability fears send Reckitt tumbling
Load-Date: April 10, 2019
End of Document
UK banks among companies with largest gender pay gaps
UK banks among companies with largest gender pay gaps
 
FT.com
April 5, 2019 Friday 5:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 449 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley and Billy Ehrenberg-Shannon
Body
British banks made up three of the top 10 large companies with the biggest gender pay gaps in 2018, underlining 
the extent of the challenge facing one of the UK’s most important sectors.
Barclays, Lloyds and Clydesdale Bank reported a median hourly pay gap of at least 38 per cent, putting them in the 
top 10 employers with 5,000 or more workers, ranked by the size of the differential.
Royal Bank of Scotland was the 13th-worst performer based on the data, with a gender pay gap of 36.8 per cent, 
compared with Barclays’ 44.1 per cent.
Barclays Bank UK, the ringfenced part of the group that houses the day-to-day retail operations, reported a much 
lower gender pay gap of 14.9 per cent. Meanwhile Lloyds Banking Group, which reports separately from Lloyds 
Bank, had a smaller gap of 32.8 per cent.
While women by law must be paid the same wage as men for the same work, companies tend to report gaps in 
median hourly pay when men are in more senior roles. Companies had until midnight on Thursday to report their 
figures for 2018.
The gender pay gap narrowed during the year at employers in the broader financial sector, according to the 
government data, which is based on reports by companies that have at least 250 employees.
The average company in the financial sector paid women 81.9p for every pound men earned in 2018. That was an 
improvement on the 81.6p women received in 2017. 
UK banks among companies with largest gender pay gaps
But two of the largest banks said their gender pay gap had widened since the previous year. At HSBC and 
Barclays, the gap increased by about one percentage point each, while Lloyds Bank reduced its gap by one point.
Big Six energy supplier British Gas’s services arm and the airline easyJet were also among the 20 large companies 
with the biggest pay gaps.
A small number of employers reported a gender pay gap in favour of women.
Among them, casual dining chain Wagamama, which was bought by Frankie & Benny’s owner Restaurant Group 
last year, had a median gender pay gap of 17.7 per cent in favour of women, while Nissan Motor Manufacturing had 
a 15.5 per cent gap. BT’s pay gap also favoured women. 
Among slightly smaller companies — those with more than 1,000 employees — low-cost airline Ryanair was one of 
the groups with the largest gender pay gaps in favour of men, of 64 per cent, although that had narrowed from the 
previous year. That was significantly larger than easyJet, which had a gap of almost 48 per cent. 
Airlines have struggled to narrow their gender pay gaps because more pilots have historically been male.
This article has been amended to remove a reference to WPP as one of the 20 large companies with the biggest 
pay gaps, to reflect the fact the WPP entity in question employed only 300 people.
Load-Date: April 8, 2019
End of Document
EasyJet warns on impact of Brexit uncertainty
EasyJet warns on impact of Brexit uncertainty
 
FT.com
April 1, 2019 Monday 1:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 530 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet warned on its outlook for the next six months amid higher costs and Brexit uncertainty, prompting a near 10 
per cent fall in the airline’s shares.
The company on Monday said it expected a £275m pre-tax loss in its first half-year to March 31. While it lost £18m 
in the same period a year ago, that included a boost from an early Easter. EasyJet’s first-half loss was £212m in 
2017. 
The trading update comes as Europe’s low-cost carriers are buffeted by higher fuel costs, declining seat prices as 
capacity expands and economic jitters across the region.
Shares in easyJet closed down 9.7 per cent to £10.09 on Monday, dragging down rivals such as Ryanair, which 
dropped 4.7 per cent, and British Airways owner IAG, which fell 1.6 per cent.
The airline said it had become “more cautious” on the next six months, with revenue per seat expected to be only 
“slightly up” as a year-on-year rise in demand for the crucial July-September period is offset by weakness in the 
preceding quarter.
The update suggests easyJet will struggle to achieve the full-year pre-tax profit of £580m it was indicating as 
recently as January.
EasyJet warns on impact of Brexit uncertainty
Johan Lundgren, chief executive, said the company was seeing “softness” in both the UK and Europe for the six 
months to the end of September because “macroeconomic uncertainty and many unanswered questions 
surrounding Brexit” were “driving weaker customer demand”.
He said this was the case in “all our core European markets” as economic prospects had declined in the UK, Italy 
and France, adding that while the UK domestic market was “doing OK”, international flights to and from the country 
were suffering. He said he hoped clarity on Brexit would lead hesitant consumers to book flights.
Chief financial officer Andrew Findlay, meanwhile, warned of a “malaise in the customer” across Europe, partly 
thanks to an unstable euro.
Other European low-cost airlines have also been warning of weaker demand. Ryanair in February said that unlike 
competitors, it did not think summer fares would rise this year as it reaffirmed its own profit warnings.
EasyJet said it expected revenue per seat in its first half to have declined by 7.4 per cent, in line with its January 
guidance of a mid to high single-digit fall. Overall, first-half revenue was expected to have grown about 7.3 per cent 
to £2.34bn, similar to analysts’ consensus, thanks to higher passenger numbers.
The company said it expected costs during the period to have spiked by 19 per cent because of a high fuel bill and 
investment in spare aircraft, crew and other measures to maintain its schedule in case of summer disruption, which 
Mr Lundgren said was “a reality in European airspace”.
However, easyJet maintained its full-year guidance for its key measure of cost per seat excluding fuel, which it said 
would be flat, “assuming no abnormal levels of disruption”.
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said easyJet’s problems were being felt across a “volatile” sector that had 
suffered “a tough few months”. 
She added: “The recent evolution of Brexit in the last two weeks is not helping that.”
This article has been amended to reflect that easyJet’s first-half losses were £18m in 2018 and £212m in 2017.
Load-Date: April 2, 2019
End of Document
The London Report: Airlines retreat after easyJet Brexit warning
The London Report: Airlines retreat after easyJet Brexit warning
 
FT.com
April 1, 2019 Monday 6:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 196 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
WPP turned higher on the back of a Deutsche Bank upgrade to “buy”. 
The broker saw little evidence that consultancies and in-house teams were taking business from the advertising 
agencies and argued that WPP was at a deep discount to US peers, which can close on any signs of stabilisation.
Mining and energy stocks helped lift the wider market in response to Chinese data. The FTSE’s large-cap mining 
index hit its highest level in six years. 
But airlines and travel groups fell after easyJet warned that Brexit uncertainties were affecting its summer 
bookings. 
Ryanair, IAG, Wizz Air and On The Beach all retreated in response to easyJet’s profit warning, which cut more 
than a fifth of year-end profit forecasts.
“We see the balance of risks remaining to the downside with the chance that the Brexit political deadlock could 
continue beyond the next few weeks,” said Liberum. “We are also concerned that this has drawn attention away 
from softer economic conditions across Europe, which management does not appear to be reacting to.”
Tui faded as cuts to forecasts followed its warning last week of higher than expected costs linked to the grounding 
of its Boeing 737 Max fleet. 
The London Report: Airlines retreat after easyJet Brexit warning
Load-Date: April 1, 2019
End of Document
Airlines/Brexit: charm defensive
Airlines/Brexit: charm defensive
 
FT.com
March 22, 2019 Friday 5:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 321 words
Body
Airline boss Willie Walsh once invoked “ magic” when asked how IAG would comply with EU ownership rules. The 
EU’s transport commissioner — an expert on New Age ideas — seems unimpressed. Violeta Bulc, who studied as 
a shaman, has accused airline groups like IAG of gambling that the UK will not crash out of the EU without a deal. 
Her beef is that she has not yet seen their plans for meeting ownership rules. Airlines operating within the EU need 
to show that at least half their shares are held by EU nationals. Such protectionist rules are common across the 
world — though at least the UK has opted not to introduce  restrictions of its own after a no-deal Brexit.
The airlines will have six months grace to reach the EU’s ownership threshold. EasyJet is already in touching 
distance, it said on Friday. Ryanair needs a bigger shift. Without the Brits, the share of EU shareholders will fall 
from 55 per cent to 45 per cent. But Ryanair thinks it needs just four months to reach the target. One inducement to 
get Brits to sell would be stripping them of their voting rights.
IAG has greater need of magical thinking. In February it capped non-EU share ownership at its existing level of 47.5 
per cent. But with a big chunk of shares owned by UK investors, that would rise to as much as 64 per cent after 
Brexit. While IAG has the power to force non-EU shareholders to sell, it thinks it can avoid that. But it has not 
explained how. A statement that it would consider UK shareholders as EU investors after Brexit was dissed as “ 
totally absurd ” by a Brussels official.
Shareholders, like passengers, should have no illusions about the disruption from a disorderly Brexit. In February 
IAG’s shares fell 7 per cent in two days after the cap on non-EU ownership prompted its removal from MSCI’s 
global equity indices. IAG may well pull a rabbit out of its hat. But it cannot divert attention from the central problem 
for much longer.
Airlines/Brexit: charm defensive
Load-Date: April 1, 2019
End of Document
Post-Brexit trade ruling sparks accusations of a ‘land grab’
Post-Brexit trade ruling sparks accusations of a ‘land grab’
 
FT.com
March 20, 2019 Wednesday 6:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 621 words
Byline: Philip Stafford in London
Body
European fund managers have called on regulators to reconsider plans that would prevent them from trading some 
of Britain’s biggest stocks in London in a no-deal Brexit, amid accusations that the EU is mounting a “land grab” of 
UK share trading.
Investors were surprised by a ruling late on Tuesday from the European Securities and Markets Authority, the pan-
European administrator, which detailed some 6,200 stocks that EU-registered investors would have to trade in the 
EU if the UK leaves the bloc without a deal.
The list included 14 stocks whose home listing is in London and which trade overwhelmingly on the city’s main 
exchange, such as Vodafone, Rio Tinto and BP. All 6,200 stocks are either EU-based or have a second, highly 
active listing in London, such as Ryanair.
Esma’s ruling drew a sharp response from the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority, which warned it could lead to 
“disruption”. Executives also said the ruling could clash with requirements for brokers and asset managers to 
secure the best prices for their transactions. London-listed shares often see much higher volumes of trading than 
equivalents in Europe, meaning that big trades can be carried out more efficiently.
“I think it’s politically led. This is a land grab at a time of real uncertainty,” said Alasdair Haynes, chief executive of 
Aquis Exchange, a UK trading venue that last year set up another venue in Paris in preparing for Britain’s exit from 
the EU. “It’s good news for Aquis, but it’s very bad news for investors. Splitting up liquidity is poor for the end-
investor.”
Post-Brexit trade ruling sparks accusations of a ‘land grab’
EU-based fund managers had hoped that regulators would recognise UK exchanges as having “equivalent” 
standards, thus easing fears that an abrupt departure from the bloc next week could create market instability.
Vincent Dessard, senior regulatory adviser at the European Fund and Asset Management Association, a trade body 
based in Brussels, said Esma’s rulings were “insufficient”.
“We believe this will lead to a fire sale of securities, which will impact upon the revenues and savings of EU 
citizens,” he said. “We urge the European Commission to . . .  grant equivalence to all UK-recognised trading 
venues and for all types of financial instruments.”
Brokers and asset managers face further complications if the UK applies the same share trading obligation in a no-
deal Brexit, as it has said it plans to do.
In that scenario, a UK broker would not be able to trade Deutsche Bank in Germany, for example. One executive 
predicted banks would have to move trading desks into Europe and investors may turn to derivatives such as equity 
swaps, which are outside the scope of the rules.
Others may simply stop trading. “We don’t see how it’s possible to comply with this other than ceasing to trade the 
[names] affected,” said Jiri Krol, deputy chief executive of the London-based Alternative Investment Management 
Association.
Some observers were bemused at how Esma had arrived at its list of stocks that would be affected.
“Esma’s interpretation makes the share trading obligation look increasingly like a Heath Robinson contraption, while 
the FCA’s unusually strong language shows that even the regulators are arguing among themselves,” said Tim 
Cant, financial regulatory partner at Ashurst, the law firm.
Many companies named on the list were unaware they had been included. Nick Burchett, London-based head of 
UK equities at Cavendish Asset Management, said markets simply wanted a smooth and transparent way of trading 
stocks across Europe.
“The FCA clearly doesn’t want to get marginalised but the truth is that it has no hope of sorting things out until the 
fog of Brexit starts to clear,” he said. “Let’s face it, how long this will take is anyone’s guess right now.”
Load-Date: March 28, 2019
End of Document
‘Don’t think cash flow. Think profile. Think viral!’
‘Don’t think cash flow. Think profile. Think viral!’
 
FT.com
March 15, 2019 Friday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 578 words
Byline: Emma Jacobs and Andrew Hill
Body
Amy, the PR whizz
I’m thrilled to be working with you! It’s a great opportunity for our agency.
Twitter Q&As are a terrific way to get brand engagement, a younger audience and raise your personal profile.
Profits? It’s tricky to determine the return on investment on Twitter engagement. I see it as magic rather than 
money. As well as metrics, inflection points, RTs! Change your mindset — that’s why you hired Spasm PR, to bring 
your brand up to date. Don’t think cash flow. Think, profile. Think, reputation. Think viral! 
Good point, you didn’t get to be Europe’s number one herpes drugmaker without thinking about such things — 
#herpes! No, we won’t get that hashtag trending. Promise! Trust me.
It won’t be like  #AskJPM. They are reviled bankers on huge bonuses, you are completely different — a pharma 
company! You help people! Let’s get #Drugeze trending!
No, nothing like  Ryanair either! Unless you start making sexist comments. You won’t, will you? Phew!
So, we have put out the promotional tweet: “What does it take to lead a pharma company? Tweet your questions to 
Stewart, Drug-eze’s CEO, 1/4/19 @drugeze #AskDrugeze”
Yes, an entire week of focus groups and workshopping. 
‘Don’t think cash flow. Think profile. Think viral!’
Ready? Let’s go!
Wow, generating a lot of traffic. “Is it true that at night you hook yourself up to an intravenous drip that pumps the 
tears of children through your veins. #AskDrugeze” 
“What sparked your interest in herpes? #AskDrugeze”
Here’s a good one. “How do I become a pharma bro like you and Martin Shkreli?”
No? OK.
“Did you sleep like a feverish baby when you raised your antimalarial drug price by 3000%?”
You’ve gone viral! Can I also recommend Spasm PR’s crisis management services?
Sol, the management guru
Hello and thank you for downloading the latest episode of The Digest with Sol Santos. I’m Sol. Hi. And remember: 
“No gut, no glory”!
You may be one of the 1,203 satisfied clients who have restructured their org chart along Colonarchic™ principles, 
from stomach to large intestine. Or you may be a reader of my bestseller Burp! or my latest Straight through the 
Gut: Digestive Secrets of the World’s Greatest Leaders.
If so, welcome — and if not, double welcome — to the latest phase in my “Regular Movements” movement. 
Drumroll! I’m going to take these ideas, pivot, reverse back up the digestive tract, and create an entire community 
around mindful mastication! 
Did you know, studies show workers who chew their food 32 times are 47 per cent more productive than their 
colleagues? That works out at $47bn of innovation potential simply gobbled down half-eaten and ultimately flushed 
away every year in North America alone.
But — newsflash! — the chomping times they are a-changing. State of the art trituration tech can empower 
millennials to change the culture of food intake for the benefit of individuals, companies and society as a whole. But 
if we’re going to build this compassionate world, one munch at a time, I need your help. Subscribe direct at the end 
of this podcast for bite-sized updates, book a 32-Chew-And-You™ session for your team with me or one of my 
growing network of certified wellbeing coaches, or just buy branded apparel, including our new purpose-led dribble-
bib, to support the cause online at MasticationNation.com.
More about those opportunities later. First, I’m happy to welcome Professor Joelle Sawbubble from Al Dunlap 
Business School, who’s going to talk about her latest work, linking swifter swallowing to kinder corporate 
governance.
Joelle, hi!
Load-Date: August 1, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet shores up EU supply chain in case of no-deal Brexit
EasyJet shores up EU supply chain in case of no-deal Brexit
 
FT.com
March 12, 2019 Tuesday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 427 words
Byline: Josh Spero in Brussels
Body
Low-cost airline easyJet is stockpiling parts for its aircraft in continental Europe, in case a no-deal Brexit severs its 
supply chains.
Johan Lundgren, chief executive, said easyJet had also been transferring three aircraft a week to its new Austrian 
subsidiary, which now had a fleet of 130.
He said the airline was “stockpiling” spare parts for the Austrian fleet, “so as part of our Brexit preparations we’re 
making sure we’re not reliant on spare parts . . . only in the UK”. He said easyJet had “pre-purchased a number of 
spare parts” and allocated them to the right facilities.
The transfers represent a significant portion of easyJet’s total fleet, which numbered 315 aircraft last year. Of the 
airline’s 4,000 pilots, 1,400 now have Austrian registration, along with 3,000 cabin crew.
Mr Lundgren said Brexit preparations had cost easyJet £10m as well as lost time.
Fellow low-cost carrier Ryanair already has “ample spare parts” around the UK and continental Europe so has not 
been stockpiling, chief executive Michael O’Leary said.
But he conceded a no-deal Brexit would create problems “in terms of moving spare engines and wheels” across the 
continent’s land borders, because “you can’t fly some of these bigger parts around”. 
EasyJet shores up EU supply chain in case of no-deal Brexit
He said an interruption to supply chains would “certainly be inconvenient and would hit passengers”, and that these 
problems would not arise if the UK parliament approved Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal and avoided a no-deal 
Brexit.
Ryanair confirmed on Monday that in the event of a no-deal Brexit, UK investors would not be able to buy its shares 
because of rules requiring EU airlines to be more than 50 per cent EU-owned to retain flying rights around the bloc.
Mr O’Leary said a no-deal Brexit would reduce the EU ownership share from 55 per cent to 45 per cent, and that 
UK investors would be likely to be blocked from buying new shares until much later this year.
“Given the normal flow of share sales we think it takes about four months for the 45 per cent EU shareholding to 
move back up above the 50 per cent EU shareholding,” he added.
Ryanair would restore voting rights once EU investors reached 55 per cent, which Mr O’Leary estimated would be a 
further four months.
He also said that the airline would embark on a share buyback in the event of a no-deal scenario. 
“We finished the last share buyback in October and I think it would help to accelerate the process [of obtaining EU 
majority share ownership] because it’s likely in a hard-Brexit environment we would actually make the share 
buyback for non-EU shares only.”
Load-Date: March 13, 2019
End of Document
Stocks to watch: Cairn, Ryanair, G4S, Sirius Minerals, EnQuest, Zalando
Stocks to watch: Cairn, Ryanair, G4S, Sirius Minerals, EnQuest, Zalando
 
FT.com
March 12, 2019 Tuesday 3:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 988 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Tuesday 14:00 GMT
What’s happening
● British Airways owner IAG slipped after the UK Civil Aviation Authority joined worldwide regulators in  grounding 
Boeing’s B737 Max in the wake of Sunday’s Ethiopian Airlines crash. But low-cost carriers including Ryanair and 
easyJet edged higher on expectations that production delays would cap European short-haul capacity growth.
Just 371 Max jets are in service globally, representing just over 1.4 per cent of the total B737 fleet. However, the 
Max makes up nearly all of Boeing’s order book with around 4,600 aircraft waiting to be delivered, equivalent to six 
years of production, said Credit Suisse. Ryanair was due to take delivery of 33 Max jets this year while Norwegian 
Air Shuttle and Turkish Airlines had ordered 16 and 12 respectively, so any delays have the potential to 
“meaningfully lower” capacity growth and boost sector pricing power, the broker said.
● Cairn Energy slipped to a two-month low after the oil explorer cut its reserve estimate for the Kraken field in the 
North Sea by 19 per cent based on reservoir performance. Full-year results from Cairn were otherwise uneventful.
EnQuest, operator of the Kraken field, responded by saying its view of the reserves remained “materially 
unchanged” ahead of its own full-year results due on March 21. It cited different technical approaches to production 
forecasting and reserves scoping.
Stocks to watch: Cairn, Ryanair, G4S, Sirius Minerals, EnQuest, Zalando
“We expect the market to follow Cairn’s more prudent view given the field’s production history and plans for a 
further shutdown in 2019.”Barclays
● G4S retreated after mixed full-year results from the security group overshadowed confirmation that it was 
planning to spin off its cash-handling business. Earnings per share of 16.7p was 0.2p light versus consensus 
forecasts and net debt was about 5 per cent higher at £1.56bn due to poor cash conversion, which G4S blamed on 
contract phasing and the US federal government shutdown.
● Sirius Minerals rallied to recoup most of a sharp loss in the previous session. The developer of a Yorkshire 
fertiliser mine said it had received a “conditional proposal” from a “major global financial institution” in respect to its 
targeted stage-two project financing. Sirius gave no detail beyond saying that the potential new funding line would 
completely replace the proposed $3bn facility it outlined in late January, which involved uncovered bonds, 
commercial bank debt and a state-backed loan. 
“At a high level, we were sceptical of Sirius’s ability to complete the prior multi-tranche facility within both an 
acceptable timeframe and cost,” said JPMorgan Cazenove, which had previously argued that any high-yield bond 
issue would need to have an equity component. “Without seeing the detail, the proposed alternative structure 
seemingly mitigates these risks and at the same time simplifies the structure, which on balance is positive.”
Nevertheless, JPMorgan saw a possibility that any private backer of Sirius would still want new equity, such as via a 
convertible bond. Sirius has a deadline of the end of April to finalise funding. 
“We think this gives some clarity around the delays in debt financing and from a top-down view looks a simpler 
solution with only one party to deal with. Shares should react well to the news.”Liberum
Sellside stories
● RBC downgraded asset manager Standard Life Aberdeen to “underperform” from “sector perform” with a 215p 
target price. 
“Recent mortality data has indicated that SLA ceded even more value when it sold its insurer. A derating has 
not yet occurred, net outflows continue and we believe the dividend is less secure . . . The cash generation of 
the business is now leveraged to prevailing market conditions.”RBC
Recently published 2018 mortality tables showed a six-month reduction in life expectancy, which underlined that 
SLA sold Standard Life Assurance too cheaply to Phoenix in August, said RBC. The large reduction in mortality 
came in early 2018, many months before the deal completed, yet the profits from the annuity book had fallen to 
Phoenix, it said. Moreover, deteriorating life expectancy meant Phoenix had seven years of reserve releases to 
benefit from, the broker argued.
Meanwhile, SLA’s flagship Gars fund had continued to show net outflows in spite of an improved performance, said 
RBC. It forecast the fund would lose £7bn of net flows this year, having ceded £15bn in 2018, which led the broker 
to cut earnings forecasts by as much as 31 per cent. Yet outperformance versus other asset managers had meant 
SLA continued to trade at 13 times consensus 2018 earnings, the same valuation it had at the end of 2017, RBC 
said.
● Citigroup downgraded Zalando, the German online fashion retailer, to “neutral” from “overweight” with an 
unchanged €36 price target. The downgrade follows Zalando’s capital markets day, where management set out a 
plan to win market share by growing sales both directly and through its commission-based marketplace business.
“We think Zalando is sacrificing significant margin to drive long-term growth, which should drive higher shareholder 
value in the long term,” said Citi. It was positive on the plan on a five-year view but added: “The changing business 
mix of Zalando is likely to cause volatility for both sales and operating profit. It may also disguise underlying trends 
and make them difficult to interpret.”
● In brief: Antofagasta cut to “sector perform” at RBC; Clarkson raised to “overweight” at JPMorgan; Credit Suisse 
cut to “underperform” at KBW; Do & Co upgraded to “buy” at Kepler Cheuvreux; EON cut to “neutral” at UBS; 
Stocks to watch: Cairn, Ryanair, G4S, Sirius Minerals, EnQuest, Zalando
Lloyds upgraded to “neutral” at Goldman Sachs; P2P Global Investments raised to “buy” at Canaccord; Saint-
Gobain upgraded to “overweight” at Barclays; Stock Spirits rated new “buy” at Panmure Gordon; Telefónica 
downgraded to “hold” at Berenberg.
Read more
FTSE 100 rises as sterling drops after Brexit blow to May
For market updates and comment, follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Load-Date: March 13, 2019
End of Document
European air traffic control ‘bleeding from every wound’
European air traffic control ‘bleeding from every wound’
 
FT.com
March 11, 2019 Monday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 471 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of Hungarian carrier Wizz Air has said Europe’s air traffic control system is “bleeding from every 
wound” after it had the worst delays to flights on record last year.
József Váradi called the system’s failures “ridiculous” and “outrageous” and blamed air traffic controller strikes in 
France, staff shortages in Germany and a lack of co-operation between national authorities across Europe as 
delays reached a total of 19.1m minutes last year, double that of 2017. 
“If you look at the disruption issues behind last summer,” he said, “basically, it’s been very much driven by ATC [air 
traffic control] dysfunctioning.”
Mr Váradi said he was “not expecting a significant improvement” this summer, but added that Wizz was improving 
its resilience by putting more slack into its system, such as spare planes.
At a conference held by trade body Airlines for Europe in Brussels last week, chief executives from groups such as 
IAG, which owns British Airways, and Ryanair also criticised the ATC system. Willie Walsh, IAG’s chief, called the 
system “archaic” and said: “European air traffic control is inefficient and starved of proper resources and staffing.”
Another source of disruption for European carriers is the UK’s exit from the EU. Wizz Air has already been forcing 
new non-EU investors to sell shares so it can maintain its European flying rights, a prelude to potentially large-scale 
disenfranchisements by European carriers after Brexit.
European air traffic control ‘bleeding from every wound’
EU regulations stipulate that airlines must have a majority of shareholders based in the bloc in order for the airline 
to fly freely around its member states.
Mr Váradi said Wizz had issued two notices to shareholders “forcing sales of shares” to keep the level of non-EU 
investors at less than 50 per cent. Wizz issued these restriction notices in September 2016 and April 2018 — the 
second is still in place — and Mr Váradi confirmed it would consider disenfranchisements after a no-deal Brexit, 
when UK shareholders would no longer count as EU investors.
He called it a “fairly well-automated mechanism” that “sounds bigger as a concept than it is in actual reality”, but 
conceded that it put downward pressure on the share price by constraining demand. Mr Varadi also said the 
London-listed carrier was looking at using a trust structure to maintain its EU flying rights. 
A no-deal Brexit will pose problems for airline groups that have a large proportion of UK and non-EU investors, such 
as Ryanair, easyJet and IAG. In a trading update in January, easyJet said it had increased its European 
shareholdings (excluding the UK) from 47 per cent in the last update to 49 per cent, while Ryanair has said it will 
use disenfranchisement to reach the target.
US private equity group Indigo Partners owns 21 per cent of Wizz’s shares and Mr Váradi himself has 2.7 per cent.
Load-Date: March 12, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair and KT face stock turmoil over removal from indices
Ryanair and KT face stock turmoil over removal from indices
 
FT.com
March 11, 2019 Monday 3:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 482 words
Byline: Josh Spero and Philip Stafford in London
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair and KT Corp, South Korea’s largest telecoms company, could be set for a bout of unusual 
turmoil in their stock prices, as MSCI considers removing them from global equity indices because of distortions 
caused by their share structures.
Both companies are candidates for ejection because of the way the New York-based indexing company treats 
depository receipts — instruments issued by a company and traded overseas as a proxy for its shares.
MSCI is concerned about valuation gaps between depository receipts and the companies’ primary listings, which 
could make life difficult for investors trying to track indices. In a recent consultation paper, MSCI picked out KT, 
which has a market capitalisation of $6.4bn, and Ireland’s Ryanair, as companies that would be affected by a 
shake-up.
Ryanair, for example, has depositary receipts that trade on Nasdaq, as well as listings in London and Dublin. But 
the US shares typically trade at a premium to their European counterparts.
Pavlo Taranenko, executive director in MSCI’s index research team, said there was often little opportunity for 
investors to buy Ryanair’s European shares, because of scarcity in the market. The company also banned non-EU 
investors from buying its European shares 17 years ago, so they had no option but to buy the more expensive US 
depository receipts.
Ryanair and KT face stock turmoil over removal from indices
Mr Taranenko noted that MSCI used Ryanair’s European shares in the MSCI Ireland index, and related composites 
such as MSCI Europe and MSCI World. Non-EU investors had reported that these indices did not reflect the prices 
they were seeing.
The change could prompt investment funds that track these indices to sell the stock, but it is unlikely to deter many 
active investors. Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary told the Financial Times last week that if the carrier were 
to be removed from MSCI’s indices, he “wouldn’t be worried about it”. 
KT Corp was not immediately available for comment.
The episode highlights the power of index providers to shape investment flows, as more money is channelled 
toward passive fund managers tracking indices rather than trying to pick individual winners. Globally, the amount 
held in exchange traded funds, for example, has soared to $4.6tn from less than $100bn at the turn of the century, 
according to consultancy ETFGI.
Shares in IAG, the parent of British Airways and Iberia, fell 7 per cent in two days last month when it emerged that 
the stock would be tossed out of several MSCI indices. IAG had fallen foul of an MSCI rule known as “foreign 
room”, which sets minimum thresholds for the amount of shares still available to foreign investors.
MSCI’s consultation lasts until the end of this week and the index provider intends to announce its decision by the 
end of the month. The review of Ryanair’s inclusion had nothing to do with potential caps on ownership because of 
Brexit, Mr Taranenko said.
Load-Date: March 14, 2019
End of Document
Hot-button topics this AGM season: pay, diversity and the climate
Hot-button topics this AGM season: pay, diversity and the climate
 
FT.com
March 10, 2019 Sunday
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1262 words
Byline: Jennifer Thompson
Body
Anger over  executive pay grabs headlines but             climate-related voting and the push for board diversity will 
also be important to investors when the 2019 season of annual meetings begins in the next few weeks. 
In the UK, the new  corporate governance code will put some executives’ length of service and pension 
arrangements under even stronger scrutiny — and fund managers are ready to flex their muscles. 
“Even in cases where you don’t win, [a protest vote] can still be an interesting temperature gauge,” says George 
Dallas, policy director at the International Corporate Governance Network. 
FTfm takes a look at the hot-button issues this year.
Executive pay
“Executive remuneration always comes up,” says Leon Kamhi, head of responsibility at Hermes Investment 
Management. “Consultations [with investors] have become much better over time but three or four [cases] pop their 
heads up every year.”
Company annual reports for 2018 are trickling out, so the full picture on pay — and which executives’ packages will 
anger investors most — is still forming.
Hot-button topics this AGM season: pay, diversity and the climate
Ryanair’s decision to give chief executive Michael O’Leary a  bonus of up to €99m via a share option deal has 
already raised eyebrows. Royal London Asset Management, a shareholder in the budget airline, decried the 
potential award as “wholly inappropriate” and “ludicrous”. 
Meanwhile, shareholders at SSP, the travel food retailer, revolted against the £6.2m pay package of chief executive 
Kate Swann. A third of those who voted at the group’s AGM last month came out against the remuneration report. 
The Investment Association maintains a public register of listed UK companies subject to protest votes and 
publishes a “repeat offenders” list of companies that appear in two consecutive years. The remuneration report or 
pay-related issues were cited in 16 out of 33 companies on the list in both 2017 and 2018. 
“A lot of management teams still haven’t got it,” says one head of stewardship at a large UK asset manager. 
Board tenure 
In January the UK introduced a new rule as part of an overhaul of the corporate governance code that requires 
chairs to step down after serving on the  board for nine years. From next year, UK public companies must comply 
with the code or explain why they have not.
Directors who have served well over this limit include Tim Martin, founder of JD Wetherspoon, who has been 
chairman of the pub chain for 36 years, and Michael Dobson, chairman at Schroders, who joined its board as a 
non-executive in 2001.
Sarah Wilson, chief executive of Minerva, the stewardship consultancy, does not expect to see many protest votes 
on the issue this year. “You normally see a couple of years’ lag because it takes time to work its way through the 
system,” she says. There may still be some dissent: “Fund managers make their own decisions.”
There is already disquiet. Investors holding nearly a fifth of shares  voted against the re-election of Mark 
Williamson, chairman of Imperial Brands and on the board for 12 years, at the group’s recent AGM. The tobacco 
group is hunting for a successor.
Mike Turner, chairman of Babcock, announced in January that he would  step down from the FTSE 250 defence 
group, citing the code and the views of two top-20 shareholders who told him the company would have more 
credibility if he resigned. He has chaired the board for a decade.
Mr Kamhi, however, indicates that Hermes, which manages £34bn of assets, is open-minded on board service.
“What we’re looking for is a board that functions well, which has the right skills but is not a club. There’s an idea that 
if you’ve been there too long you’ve gone native,” he says. 
He says it would not be a deal-breaker if there were one or two longer-serving directors on a board. “They’ve seen 
the history, they know what’s in the cupboards. We don’t want it religiously enforced.” 
Mr Martin recently told the Financial Times he believed the nine-year rule was “deeply flawed”.
Board diversity
After years of  slow progress on gender diversity at board level, some investors are set to call out the laggards.
The Church Investors Group (CIG), a Christian coalition that controls assets of £21bn, has signalled a  tougher 
stance at investee companies.
The CIG will vote against the chair of the nominations committee of companies on major indices in Europe, the US, 
Australia and New Zealand unless they have at least one female director. 
This is an extension of its targeting British companies on the issue, where the CIG expects at least a third of board 
members to be women. 
Hot-button topics this AGM season: pay, diversity and the climate
“We’ve been increasing our expectations of boards on gender diversity,” says Edward Mason, head of responsible 
investment at the Church Commissioners. 
Last year it flagged the issue and voted against director elections at more than 136 companies and Mr Mason says 
it will take “a really tough line” on FTSE 100 companies where less than a quarter of directors are women.
Board diversity was one of the priorities for 2019 AGMs in a survey of governance specialists conducted by 
researchers from EY, the professional services firm. Over half of more than 60 institutional investors said “board 
diversity, primarily inclusive of gender, race and ethnicity, should be a top board focus in 2019”.
Climate change
“We’re seeing climate change feature heavily in this year’s season,” says Mr Mason.
BP has already side-stepped shareholder anger by  agreeing to disclose how its spending and strategy align with 
the Paris climate agreement. It took action ahead of a motion co-filed by ShareAction, the responsible investment 
group, Hermes EOS, Aviva Investors, M&G Investments and Legal & General Investment Management.
Its position contrasts with that of ExxonMobil, which has called on the US Securities and Exchange Commission to 
try to  block an investor proposal calling for it to set targets for greenhouse gas emissions. 
The US oil group says it is already cutting emissions and that the proposal, led by the pension fund for New York 
state and backed by Calpers and the Church of England, is an attempt to “micromanage the company”.
Ms Wilson says the outcomes highlight how European companies are “better attuned” to having conversations with 
shareholders. “One’s a British company, one’s a US company,” she says. “There is a stark contrast in how dialogue 
and engagement operates between the two markets.”
Executive pensions 
Investors are paying more attention to  lavish pension deals that further exacerbate the difference in income 
between executives and workers.
In part this reflects increasing scrutiny of remuneration but the revamped UK corporate governance code includes a 
stipulation that executives’ pension contribution rates should be “aligned with those available to the workforce”.
“There’s [increasing] sensitivity to unequal pay standards within companies,” says Mr Dallas.
The Investment Association recently sent a letter to remuneration chairs at FTSE 350 companies to warn them on 
the issue.
“The pension contributions for current executive directors should be reduced over time to equal the rate received by 
the majority of the workforce,” wrote Andrew Ninian, director of stewardship and corporate governance at the 
industry body. “Shareholders expect that no compensation will be awarded for this change.”
“What investors want to see and what we want to see . . . is that pensions are in line with the wider workforce,” says 
Bruce Duguid, head of stewardship at Hermes EOS, which advises on £389bn of assets. 
“If [executive pensions are] materially out of line and it’s a new package, that could well be something we’d vote 
against.” 
Load-Date: March 27, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair ’s Michael O’Leary says airline’s problem is ‘with me’
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary says airline’s problem is ‘with me’
 
FT.com
March 8, 2019 Friday 5:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 587 words
Byline: Josh Spero in Brussels
Body
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of low-cost carrier Ryanair, said his combative reputation has been a negative 
distraction for the airline and was part of the reason he will step back from the day-to-day running of the airline this 
year.
Speaking to the Financial Times in Brussels, Mr O’Leary said: “I think one of the negatives of Ryanair is its 
association with me, I’m an easy person to target . . . Too much of the negativity that attracts itself to Ryanair 
attaches itself because of something stupid I said 25 years ago.”
Mr O’Leary, who was referring to such statements as saying “hell would freeze over” before he recognised unions, 
has courted controversy throughout his career. Recently the airline’s unions criticised a potential €99m bonus 
awarded to Mr O’Leary, while he has also defended Ryanair’s chairman, David Bonderman, who has been in post 
for more than 20 years, against an investor revolt.
In a new role as head of Ryanair Holdings, Mr O’Leary will oversee the chief executives of the main Ryanair carrier, 
as well as Laudamotion (based in Austria), Ryanair Sun (Poland) and Ryanair UK, the entity formed to surmount 
obstacles thrown up by Brexit. He will be responsible for decisions including, for example, merger and acquisition 
opportunities, costs and acquiring aircraft.
But he will no longer be at the forefront of Ryanair’s day-to-day affairs. He said the move was a chance to “reboot” 
the company’s reputation, as it introduced the improvements from a recent customer charter. “What we need to do 
Ryanair ’s Michael O’Leary says airline’s problem is ‘with me’
for the next year, certainly through 2019, is shut up and deliver,” he said, “whereas in the past we might have spent 
too much time talking about it and not enough time delivering it.”
In the three months to December 2018, Ryanair said it had made a “disappointing” €22m pre-tax loss, a swing from 
a €113m profit the year before. Revenue for the quarter increased by 9 per cent to €1.53bn and the airline 
reaffirmed January’s warning that full-year profit would be in the range of €1bn-€1.1bn.
Mr O’Leary said Ryanair was keen to improve the number of female pilots it employed, which is currently about 4 
per cent and led to a gender pay gap of 72 per cent last year, the worst in the sector.
He said he wanted to double the number of female pilots in the next three years but added that the gender pay 
measurement, as devised by the government, was “not a meaningful figure. It’s entirely bogus . . . this entirely 
arbitrary, meaningless number”.
What was critical, he said, “is that you have equal pay. We pay our male cabin crew exactly what we pay our female 
cabin crew. We pay our female pilots exactly what we pay our male pilots.”
He admitted he was puzzled as to why more women did not want to be pilots, saying that 90 per cent of applicants 
at recruitment days were men. But he disputed the suggestion that women chose not to enter aviation because it 
was male dominated. Ryanair’s maternity cover — which he said was 10 weeks on full pay — was “very good”, he 
said, and being a pilot was “a very family-friendly profession”.
Balpa, the UK pilots’ union, has launched a campaign demanding that women on maternity leave should receive full 
pay for the first 26 weeks and half pay for the remainder. Statutory maternity pay is £145 per week for weeks 7-39, 
which Balpa said can mean pilots taking a 90 per cent pay cut.
Ryanair is looking at establishing an apprenticeship scheme for female pilots within the next 12-18 months, Mr 
O’Leary said, adding that 10 per cent of new pilots were female.
Load-Date: March 9, 2019
End of Document
Air France - KLM : Airplane 2
Air France-KLM: Airplane 2
 
FT.com
February 27, 2019 Wednesday 2:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 422 words
Body
Two pilots in the cockpit and passengers feel safe. Two state investors in the holding company and shareholders 
feel queasy. The Dutch government’s lunge for the joystick at Air France-KLM knocked a tenth of the value off its 
newly acquired 13 per cent on Wednesday. Brace for more frights. 
Economic nationalism is on the rise across Europe. Assertive politicians promoting national — or continental — 
champions could boost the share prices of some companies. But Dutch stakebuilding in Air France-KLM is 
defensive, aimed at protecting the Netherlands’ interests. 
Conceivably, Dutch politicians will protect other shareholders from unhelpful interventions by Paris. More likely, 
corporate strategy discussions will descend into spats over the merits of Schiphol airport versus Charles de Gaulle 
airport. Worse, there could be a three-way tussle for control. Strategic partners Delta Air and China Eastern each 
have 9 per cent stakes — and a shared interest in boosting trans-continental volumes, not jobs at European hubs. 
Air France-KLM badly needs to avoid distractions. It was formed in 2004 when EU expansion and economic 
integration were in the air. But chief executive Benjamin Smith, who took the controls in September last year, faces 
a host of legacy issues, including dire labour relations. In a 2015 dispute, an Air France manager was forced to flee 
half-naked over a fence to escape angry workers outside its Charles de Gaulle headquarters. 
Mr Smith’s predecessor quit last May after losing a staff vote on a pay offer already rejected by Air France unions. 
So far Mr Smith has kept his shirt. But Air France-KLM’s operating margins at 5 per cent last year compared with 10 
per cent at Germany’s Lufthansa and 14 per cent at IAG, which owns British Airways and Spain’s Iberia. Dutch 
disgruntlement is justified: operating margins were just 1.7 per cent at Air France, but almost 10 per cent at KLM.
Air France - KLM : Airplane 2
Air France-KLM’s share price had risen by a quarter in a week as the Dutch government stealthily built its stake, 
before nosediving once it was revealed. That left its enterprise value at four times forward ebitdar, a cash earnings 
measure which adjusts for differences in leasing costs. Lufthansa is on 4.4 and low-cost rival Ryanair on almost 
eight, according to Bernstein. Too many hands yanking on the controls, and it will stall further.
If you are a subscriber and would like to receive alerts when Lex articles are published, just click the button ‘Add to 
myFT’, which appears at the top of this page above the headline
Load-Date: March 1, 2019
End of Document
Retail investors at risk in Brexit dual-listing tussle
Retail investors at risk in Brexit dual-listing tussle
 
FT.com
February 20, 2019 Wednesday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 493 words
Byline: Philip Stafford and Chris Flood in London
Body
Brussels’ plan to restrict trading in shares listed both in London and elsewhere in the EU in the event of a hard 
Brexit will deliver a blow to retail investors, asset management groups have warned.
Ryanair, British Airways owner IAG and Unilever are among the companies that will be hit by the stipulation from 
Brussels that EU-based investors can only trade shares on exchanges it recognises. It is a status EU authorities do 
not plan to extend to London venues if Britain leaves the trading bloc abruptly at the end of next month.
That will force EU-based asset managers to buy and sell the shares of the affected companies at typically less 
liquid and competitive exchanges outside London. Retail investors have almost €40bn tied up in companies with 
dual-listed shares, according to an analysis of Ucits funds from the German Investment Funds Association, or BVI. 
The fate of dual-listed shares is the latest point of contention a hard Brexit has thrown up for Europe’s capital 
markets. Despite fierce lobbying from asset management groups, EU authorities say its contingency planning for a 
no-deal Brexit should focus on ensuring financial stability. Authorities are also keen to ensure that any stop-gap 
measures do not give Britain access to the bloc’s single market through the backdoor.
However, with slightly more than a month until the UK is set to exit the EU, investor groups are stepping up efforts 
to prompt a change in Brussels.
Retail investors at risk in Brexit dual-listing tussle
“Safeguarding access to this infrastructure is critical to all asset managers so they can continue to operate 
effectively and efficiently across European capital markets,” said Chris Cummings, chief executive of the Investment 
Association, a UK trade body.
The stand-off has led to speculation that, in the event of a hard Brexit, companies will ditch their listing elsewhere in 
the EU and keep the one in London. Even if Britain leaves the EU on March 29 without a deal, EU-based investors 
would still be able to buy and sell shares of companies only listed in London.
Coca-Cola European Partners, the world’s largest independent bottler of the eponymous drink, is one company 
planning to have listings in both London and the rest of the EU. It plans to transfer its existing London listing to the 
LSE on March 28, the day before the UK is due to leave the EU, but it will keep listings in the US, Netherlands and 
Spain.
“It will make it easier for European investors to trade in [our] shares,” the €22bn company said.
Estimates vary on how many companies could be ensnared by the dual-listing question. Some put it at about 500, 
although some estimates are much lower if regulators apply a threshold for only the most actively traded shares. 
The BVI, which used data from Morningstar, said its estimates on the amount of retail money potentially caught up 
were conservative as it did not include regulated institutional funds, institutional managed portfolios or direct 
investments by pension funds or insurance companies.
Load-Date: February 27, 2019
End of Document
Airline flybmi files for bankruptcy citing Brexit
Airline flybmi files for bankruptcy citing Brexit
 
FT.com
February 16, 2019 Saturday 8:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 556 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London
Body
UK regional airline flybmi has gone into administration, blaming “insurmountable” challenges caused by Brexit and 
dealing another blow to the UK’s aviation sector.
All flybmi flights have been cancelled.
British Midland Regional, which operated as flybmi, blamed factors including a spike in fuel and carbon prices. But it 
added: “Current trading and future prospects have also been seriously affected by the uncertainty created by the 
Brexit process, which has led to our inability to secure valuable flying contracts in Europe and lack of confidence 
around bmi’s ability to continue flying between destinations in Europe.”
UK aviation has now experienced the collapse of two airlines — flybmi and Cello Aviation — in the past five months 
and the 1p-a-share sale of troubled carrier Flybe, which is unrelated to flybmi. Flybe was on the  verge of 
bankruptcy in January as talks to save its sale to a consortium including Virgin Atlantic faltered.
“Flybmi was crucial to domestic connectivity across the UK,” said Andy McDonald, the Labour MP and shadow 
transport secretary. “The airline has been in difficulty for some time and I hope the Department for Transport has 
contingency measures in place for the key regional routes served by the airline and consider how best to support 
these going forward.”
Airline flybmi files for bankruptcy citing Brexit
Airlines have been citing Brexit as a factor in recent bad news. Ryanair’s chief marketing officer said “a Brexit 
backdrop” would be responsible for slower growth in the UK than the EU in the next financial year, while Flybe’s 
chief executive blamed “significant uncertainties presented by Brexit” for some of the airline’s troubles.
A “bare-bones” air connectivity deal, to ensure flights continue even in the event of a no-deal Brexit, has removed 
the most immediate risk for UK airlines, but questions over ownership, flying rights and a proposed flight cap have  
persisted.
There have been wider problems besetting the European aviation sector, which has seen a slew of collapses in the 
past two years. Earlier in February, Berlin-based  Germania  ceased operations, following Latvia-based Primera Air, 
Cobalt Air of Cyprus, Germany’s Azur Air, Lithuania’s Small Planet Airlines and the Swiss SkyWork last autumn.
In 2017, three large European carriers went bankrupt in quick succession: Monarch in the UK, Air Berlin, and 
Alitalia. High fuel prices and overcapacity, which drives down fares, have been principal causes and have led to a  
wave of consolidation.
Flybmi, which carried 520,000 passengers in 2018, said the airline’s owners had put more than £40m into the 
business in the past six years. The airline made a loss of £4m in the year to the end of March 2017, the most recent 
for which accounts are available.
It employed 376 people in the UK, Germany, Sweden and Belgium and mainly served northern European 
destinations.
Flybmi had been a regional subsidiary of British Midland International, which IAG — owner of British Airways — 
bought from Lufthansa in 2012. IAG sold flybmi to Sector Aviation Holdings later the same year, which was itself 
sold to Airline Investments Limited (AIL) in 2015.
Loganair, a Scottish regional carrier also owned by AIL, has taken over some of Flybmi’s routes from Aberdeen. AIL 
itself made an adjusted pre-tax loss of £3.2m in the year to the end of March 2017.
Additional reporting by Henry Mance
Load-Date: February 18, 2019
End of Document
Brussels official calls IAG Brexit plan ‘totally absurd’
Brussels official calls IAG Brexit plan ‘totally absurd’
 
FT.com
February 15, 2019 Friday 4:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 439 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The announcement by IAG, the owner of British Airways, that it would consider UK shareholders as EU investors 
after Brexit has been described as “totally absurd” by a senior official in Brussels.
The Spanish airline group said this week that it had put a cap on the number of non-EU investors who can own 
shares in the event of a no-deal Brexit. But it also suggested it would count UK shareholders as EU investors even 
in that scenario.
Airlines must show they are more than 50 per cent owned and controlled by EU investors to retain flying rights 
within the bloc, posing a challenge for some European carriers, such as IAG, Ryanair and easyJet, with their 
diverse investor bases. 
IAG said UK investors “are not and will not be subject to the restrictions on share acquisitions . . . unless IAG 
notifies shareholders otherwise. IAG has no plans to issue such a notification.”
The EU official said IAG had not approached the European Commission to discuss its move, which appeared 
directed at maintaining its flying rights in case of several potential Brexit outcomes.
Once the UK leaves the EU, a company’s UK investors will not count towards the target, meaning a company which 
was previously European will no longer be. EasyJet recently announced  it had reached 49 per cent EU ownership.
IAG, Ryanair and easyJet all have corporate provisions to strip voting rights from non-EU shareholders and to force 
them to sell their shares so they can meet the target, and IAG reiterated on Monday night that it would do so.
Brussels official calls IAG Brexit plan ‘totally absurd’
The group, which also owns Spain’s Iberia, said it had fixed the maximum level of share ownership by non-EU 
persons at 47.5 per cent, its current level. 
Any non-EU investor who tries to buy IAG shares will have the shares’ voting rights removed and will be required to 
sell them within 10 days.
The company added: “There can be no assurance as to when, or if, the permitted maximum will be removed.”
Brussels has proposed giving airline groups such as IAG a  seven-month deadline to overhaul their shareholder 
make-up in order to retain full flying rights within the EU if Britain crashes out of the bloc without a deal next month. 
However, it is still to agree final terms.
A lawyer, who did not wish to be named, said that IAG's statement about not treating UK investors as non-EU 
entities after Brexit “makes no sense”.
IAG has been reticent on the subject of Brexit. The group’s chairman, Antonio Vázquez Romero, has said it has 
“contingency plans” but did not provide further details.
IAG, which is a Spanish company that has its headquarters in the UK, declined to comment.
Additional reporting by Alex Barker in Brussels
Load-Date: February 18, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair shows interest in buying Thomas Cook airport slots
Ryanair shows interest in buying Thomas Cook airport slots
 
FT.com
February 14, 2019 Thursday 11:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 338 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London
Body
Ryanair said it would be interested in buying parts of Thomas Cook’s airport slots if no one comes forward with an 
offer for the entire unit.
Kenny Jacobs, chief marketing officer of the Dublin-based low-cost airline group, said: “If it goes that way and it 
gets broken up, are we interested in slots at certain airports? We would be.”
He reiterated the company’s announcement at its recent results that Ryanair was interested in “small M&A 
opportunities, growing out a small airline rather than buying something big”. Mr Jacobs said that could include 
buying slots from Berlin-based Germania, which ceased operations last week.
UK holiday group Thomas Cook plans a “strategic review” of its airline business with “some consolidation”, it said 
last week. The travel agent has 103 aircraft, of which a quarter serve long-haul destinations.
Airline group Lufthansa has expressed an interest in buying the long-haul operations of Thomas Cook’s German 
airline, which the tour operator put up for sale after a poor spate of results.
Mr Jacobs said Ryanair was not interested in buying any part of Norwegian, which recently announced an 
emergency fundraising. Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has been publicly critical of Norwegian.
Mr Jacobs predicted that disruption to flights in the European summer would be worse than last year, which was the 
most serious on record, because of continued problems with air traffic controllers in Europe.
Ryanair shows interest in buying Thomas Cook airport slots
“I promise the French air traffic controllers will go on strike in May, as they always do,” Mr Jacobs said. “That will 
probably be followed by the Italians.” He pointed to staff shortages in Germany and recent strikes in Belgium.
Delays rose to a total of 19.1m minutes last year, double that of the previous year. The average delay per flight was 
1.73 minutes in 2018 against EU performance targets of half a minute.
This article has been amended to make clear that Ryanair would only be interested in buying certain Thomas Cook 
airport slots rather than any other part of its airline business.
Load-Date: February 14, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair boss under fire over potential €99m bonus
Ryanair boss under fire over potential €99m bonus
 
FT.com
February 12, 2019 Tuesday 4:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 467 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair’s unions have criticised Michael O’Leary, the low-cost airline group’s chief executive, after the company 
announced he could receive a bonus of up to €99m.
Joost van Doesburg of the Dutch pilots’ union VNV said: “This type of bonus will only stimulate Mr O’Leary to 
continue his unsustainable way of dealing with his employees and increase social abuse like bogus self-
employment and no sick pay.
“It would be much better if the social welfare of the Ryanair staff would be taken into account when the senior 
management are getting their bonuses.”
Brian Strutton, general secretary of Balpa, the British pilots’ union, said: “If [Mr O’Leary] deserves a whopping great 
bonus like this, then pilots deserve the equivalent because they meet their targets day in and day out.”
Ryanair did not respond to a request for comment.
The UK-listed and Irish based airline issued options for 10m shares to Mr O’Leary on Friday at a strike price of 
€11.12, which he can buy should he increase the company’s profitability to €2bn and/or its share price to €21 over 
the next five years.
The difference between 10m shares at €21 each and the same number at €11.12, their closing price on Friday, is 
€99m. 
Ryanair boss under fire over potential €99m bonus
Ryanair’s share price hit a peak of nearly €20 in August 2017, but since then has slid as oil prices have risen and 
industrial action escalated.
If Mr O’Leary increases Ryanair’s profitability to €2bn but the share price does not hit €21, his bonus would be 
smaller.
Last week Ryanair reaffirmed its warning that full-year profit would be in the range of €1bn-€1.1bn. The range had 
been €1.25bn-€1.35bn before two profit warnings in the past four months. 
Royal London Asset Management, a Ryanair shareholder, called the potential award “wholly inappropriate”.
“Asking shareholders to pay directors more than €100m for achieving a marginal improvement over its share price 
high in August 2017 is ludicrous,” the investment group said.
Ryanair has been engaged in negotiations with its unions since agreeing to recognise them in late 2017 after a 
rostering failure and staff shortage led to thousands of flight cancellations.
But talks have progressed fitfully, and there was a summer of strikes including five days by Irish pilots and two days 
of co-ordinated pan-European action by cabin crew.
Ryanair Sun, the airline’s Polish subsidiary, refused to recognise the new national union for cabin crew and asked 
them and pilots to sign up to the company’s local subsidiary as contractors, which would remove their permanent 
employee rights.
Some union figures said the announcement that Mr O’Leary would give up day-to-day running of Ryanair to 
become group chief executive  and that chairman David Bonderman would step down in 2020 could lead to a better 
climate for industrial relations.
Additional reporting by Owen Walker
Load-Date: February 13, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair boss O’Leary in chance to win €100m bonus
Ryanair boss O’Leary in chance to win €100m bonus
 
FT.com
February 8, 2019 Friday 6:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 418 words
Byline: Josh Spero and Owen Walker
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary will gain a bonus of up to €100m if he hits performance targets. 
The UK-listed and Irish based company issued options for 10m shares to Mr O’Leary at a strike price of €11.12, 
which he can buy should he increase the company’s profitability to €2bn and/or its share price to €21 over the next 
five years.
The difference between 10m shares at €21 each and the same number at €11.12, their closing price on Friday, is 
€99m. 
If Mr O’Leary increases profitability but the share price does not hit €21, his bonus would be smaller. 
Alan MacDougall, managing director of Pirc, which works with the Local Authority Pension Fund Forum that holds 
about 1 per cent of Ryanair stock, said: “I would have thought he would be a bit sheepish accepting that, given the 
current state of the company. But I don't think pay matters much to him — it's more about power.” 
Ryanair’s 11 non-executive directors have received options of 50,000 shares each under the same terms, meaning 
their bonus could be as much as €500,000. 
Ryanair, which announced a third-quarter loss of €22m on Monday, reaffirmed its warning that full-year profit would 
be in the range of €1.0bn-€1.1bn. 
Ryanair boss O’Leary in chance to win €100m bonus
The range had been €1.25bn-€1.35bn before two profit warnings in the past four months, but Mr O’Leary said a fall 
in ticket prices, as well as the cost of staff strikes and the high price of oil, had hurt the airline. 
Royal London Asset Management, another large Ryanair shareholder, has said it does not consider the 
remuneration committee to be “wholly independent”, since it includes a former executive, “which is contrary to best 
practice”. 
On the day of the results Mr O’Leary announced he would remain at the top of Ryanair for another five years, but 
would step down as chief executive of the airline itself as the company overhauled its structure. 
The airline said it would move in the next year “to a group structure not dissimilar to that of IAG”, owner of British 
Airways and Iberia, with a small senior management team overseeing Ryanair, Laudamotion, based in Austria, 
Ryanair Sun, in Poland, and Ryanair UK. 
Mr O’Leary will be chief executive of Ryanair Holdings until at least 2024 and the Ryanair airline itself will appoint a 
new chief executive later this year. 
In his new role, Mr O’Leary will still be responsible for some of the most important decisions affecting Ryanair, 
including merger and acquisition opportunities, reducing costs and acquiring aircraft.
Ryanair could not be reached for comment.
Load-Date: February 11, 2019
End of Document
Why Thomas Cook thinks a £1bn airline deal is just the ticket
Why Thomas Cook thinks a £1bn airline deal is just the ticket
 
FT.com
February 7, 2019 Thursday 8:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 829 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
“So, how was your holiday?”
It is a question that most Britons will answer with “good, thanks, although the weather/food/hotel was a bit [insert 
adjective conveying mild disappointment]”. Occasionally, some will insist on sharing unnecessary Facebook photos 
of unnecessarily sunburnt faces. But no one would ever reply: “Oh, the Gatwick Wetherspoon’s was a real hidden 
gem, and the flight to Palma a truly uplifting experience.” And that is one reason why Thomas Cook is selling its 
airline business.
In the same way that no one ever buys seven nights in Majorca in order to spend two hours on a Boeing 737, the 
travel group thinks no one buys its shares in order to own an airline. Especially an airline with a 3.7 per cent 
operating margin. They buy Thomas Cook’s shares because they think it can open more own-brand hotels with a 
14 per cent operating margin. And that is the other reason why Thomas Cook is selling its airline business. 
In the same way that Brits with maxed-out credit cards can’t afford chichi holiday resorts, the travel group can’t 
afford to invest in hotels with £1.6bn of net debt on its balance sheet. But selling all or part of its airline business 
could help pay down this debt without requiring an equity fundraising — and leave capital for investment. This 
prospect had Barclays analysts sounding like a stag party applying aftersun before a Balearic beach party: “Relief 
(balance sheet), Excitement (airline strategic review).” 
For many, then, the big question about an airline deal is “Cuánto cuesta”? Thomas Cook’s airline business comes 
with attractive landing slots at capacity constrained airports, such as Frankfurt and Gatwick. It also comes with 9m 
Why Thomas Cook thinks a £1bn airline deal is just the ticket
seats a year — 45 per cent of capacity — booked by Thomas Cook leisure customers. It is therefore likely to appeal 
to the likes of easyJet and Ryanair. But it has also diversified into long haul. So it might attract Lufthansa and IAG, 
too. Applying an earnings multiple near the average for these rivals gives a valuation of £1bn-£1.5bn. But applying 
the highest enterprise value to sales multiple got one analyst to £3.2bn.
That would more than enough to repay net debt that currently peaks at £1.6bn in winter — when costs have been 
incurred but bookings not yet secured — before falling to nearer £400m by the financial year end. Several hundred 
million should be left for hotel spending money.
But before investors order up the pina coladas, a couple of sobering thoughts. Thomas Cook will need to do an 
airline deal that brings co-operation from the new owner — to keep flying its holidaymakers to Palma and beyond. 
That may bring the proceeds down to nearer Citi’s £630m sum-of-the-parts valuation. Then it will find itself as a 
pure tour operator selling holidays in a price-war zone. Thomas Cook had been cutting capacity to lift prices. But 
earlier this week, rival Tui indicated it would slash prices to protect market share. Wish you were here? Investors 
might answer: “Not yet.” 
Shaftesbury: STL is NFI?
No one appreciates an invitation at very short notice — particularly from a neighbour. It merely indicates that you 
were not on the original guest list, suggests your host felt duty-bound to include you at the last minute, and leaves 
you scrambling around to find something to bring to the party. All of which might explain why the spat between 
Soho property group Shaftesbury and shareholder Samuel Tak Lee — owner of the neighbouring Langham Estate 
— has just escalated.
Ahead of Friday’s annual general meeting, Mr Lee has indicated that because of concerns over Shaftesbury’s 
December 2017 share placing, he will not only vote his 26 per cent shareholding against future fundraisings but 
oppose resolutions approving directors’ remuneration and re-appointment.
His dislike of share placings, which dilute the holdings of those not invited to take part, is longstanding. He has 
previously suggested that the 2017 placing, in which he reluctantly participated, was not necessary to fund the 
property deals the group was pursuing. Shaftesbury, however, insists it was, in order to avoid taking on more debt, 
and increasing its loan-to-value ratio. 
Other investors — notably the company’s second-largest shareholder Norges — also seem to be comfortable with 
the way the fundraising was conducted. Shareholder advisory groups ISS and Glass Lewis have both 
recommended that investors vote in favour of Shaftesbury’s resolutions at the annual meeting.
But might Mr Lee’s annoyance be based on the fact that other participants were invited to the placing well in 
advance? 
Lombard hears that Norges was given an opportunity to take part a month before, while Mr Lee’s Langham 
business may have received less than 24 hours notice. Given that it was going to cost Mr Lee about £60m to join 
the party, and maintain his 26 per cent stake, he might have appreciated more time. It is not quite as easy as 
dashing to the cashpoint, the dry cleaner and the off-licence.    
matthew.vincent@ft.com
Load-Date: February 8, 2019
End of Document
Germania adds to long list of aviation bankruptcies
Germania adds to long list of aviation bankruptcies
 
FT.com
February 5, 2019 Tuesday 6:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 577 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The long list of aviation bankruptcies in the European low-cost airline market grew on Tuesday as Berlin-based 
Germania ceased operations.
The company collapsed as it was unable to secure financing to fund itself after a difficult year that included high fuel 
prices and unexpected aircraft maintenance.
Karsten Balke, Germania’s chief executive, said: “We very much regret that, consequently, our only option was to 
file for insolvency.” 
Germania is one of a rapidly growing list of European airlines to fail in the past two years. In 2017, three large 
European carriers went bankrupt in quick succession: Monarch in the UK, Air Berlin, and Alitalia.
Then, last autumn, a number of smaller airlines failed: Latvia-based Primera Air, Cobalt Air of Cyprus, Germany’s 
Azur Air, Lithuania’s Small Planet Airlines and the Swiss SkyWork. The failures have led to a wave of consolidation.
On Monday, Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary warned that the European airline industry faced more consolidation and 
bankruptcies as his Irish-based group recorded its first quarterly loss in five years. 
Germania, which has 37 planes and flew 4m passengers last year, had announced in January that “unforeseeable 
events”, such as 2018’s rise in fuel prices and the euro weakening against the dollar, had been “major burdens”.
Germania adds to long list of aviation bankruptcies
Founded in 1986 by Hinrich Bischoff, it was sold to a private owner in 2014. The company’s Swiss and Bulgarian 
subsidiaries were not affected by the bankruptcy, it said.
The news came after underwhelming results from Europe’s largest low-cost carriers, with Ryanair on Monday 
reporting a “disappointing” €22m loss for the third quarter, its first loss since 2014.
In its first-quarter trading update two weeks ago, easyJet said revenue per seat at constant currencies, for the six 
months to the end of March, was now expected to fall by “mid to high single digits”, compared with an earlier 
forecast of a low to mid-single digits fall.
Pre-tax profits at Wizz fell 90 per cent to €1.8m in the three months to December against €14.6m the year before.
And Norwegian announced an emergency multibillion rights issue last week as worries increased about the low-
cost carrier’s finances.
Although each company has its own difficulties, they are all facing downward pressures on seat prices as capacity 
in the European low-cost sector expands. 
In the final quarter of 2018, capacity at Europe’s low-cost carriers — as measured by the number of seats — grew 
11 per cent, according to analysis by Barclays, even after many airlines had trimmed their growth. 
At Ryanair, the average fare fell 6 per cent to less than €30 as a flood of seats depressed prices.
Another problem has been rising fuel costs. The price of a barrel of jet fuel peaked at $86 in early October, having 
been on the rise since early 2016, when it was below $30. 
Some airlines were unable to hedge their exposure to fuel, as in the case of Germania, while Ryanair’s hedging — 
at too high a level — was “poor”, according to Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC.
However, among the airlines that failed, there were two common themes, said Alex Paterson, analyst at Investec. 
First, airlines including Air Berlin, Monarch and Germania “were charter airlines which have been trying to reinvent 
themselves as scheduled airlines — and have not been successful”.
Second, some of the bankruptcies were of younger airlines, which did not have sufficient scale to achieve low unit 
costs or enough capital to see them through. 
Load-Date: February 5, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair reports losses
Ryanair reports losses
 
FT.com
February 5, 2019 Tuesday 3:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 10 words
Byline: Banx
Body
Michael O’Leary moves to group CEO as Ryanair overhauls structure
Load-Date: March 14, 2019
End of Document
Michael O’Leary remains a commanding presence at Ryanair
Michael O’Leary remains a commanding presence at Ryanair
 
FT.com
February 4, 2019 Monday 5:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 868 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Michael O’Leary may be handing over the controls of Ryanair but is not yet leaving the cockpit.
As part of a shake-up of the Irish airline group revealed on Monday the chief executive will step back from the day-
to-day running of the main Ryanair carrier to become head of a new holding company overseeing the group’s four 
businesses.
Ryanair will appoint a new boss at its main airline and Mr O’Leary will oversee chief executives at its smaller 
carriers, Laudamotion (based in Austria), Ryanair Sun (Poland) and Ryanair UK, the entity formed to surmount 
obstacles thrown up by Brexit.
However few observers expect the Irishman to loosen his grip on the company he has led for more than 20 years.
“I don’t think this is necessarily a stepping back — he’s not the type of character who would step back,” said 
Stephen Furlong, at Davy Stockbrokers.
In his new role, Mr O’Leary will still be responsible for some of the most important decisions affecting Ryanair, 
including merger and acquisition opportunities, reducing costs and acquiring aircraft. 
Ryanair said the new structure would not be “dissimilar to that of IAG”, which owns British Airways and Iberia. 
Like at IAG, where the heads of each airline report to Willie Walsh, the new chief executives of Ryanair’s 
subsidiaries will still take their lead from Mr O’Leary.
Michael O’Leary remains a commanding presence at Ryanair
Some analysts said the move was a potential way to cultivate a successor to eventually take over. 
The move does not represent a diminution of Mr O’Leary’s authority, but does make “the whole organisation less 
dependent on one person”, said one analyst, who did not wish to be named.
However Mr O’Leary also made a renewed commitment to Ryanair by promising to remain as chief executive of the 
group until at least 2024. His five-year contract comes to an end this year and he had previously said he would 
prefer a rolling annual contract, while the board wanted another five-year agreement.
The new federated approach also reflected how “the balance of opportunities . . . is probably shifting beyond [the 
main carrier] Ryanair”, said Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein.
Ryanair has growth plans for all three of its main airlines, especially for Ryanair Sun in eastern Europe, where it will 
compete with Wizz in fast-growing markets.
Some analysts questioned whether the holding company structure, with semi-autonomous businesses operating in 
different countries, made as much sense for Ryanair as it did for IAG or Lufthansa, which owns Swiss and Austrian 
Airlines.
“It’s the only framework European airlines have really found to address labour issues,” said Mr Roeska. “You’re 
creating an internal competition and the lowest cost gets the most aircraft.” But at the same time, Ryanair is 
“different to IAG and Lufthansa where the smaller entities are bigger and more important”.
Ryanair as a whole expects to have almost 460 aircraft by March 2019, of which Ryanair Sun started last summer 
with five. Laudamotion will have 19 this year, while Ryanair UK will launch with only one plane.
Unions, which have been engaged in intermittent strike action against Ryanair in the past year over labour 
negotiations and have repeatedly clashed with Mr O’Leary, hoped the overhaul at the airline — which also included 
the proposed departure of chairman David Bonderman — would bring positive changes.
“The new chair will bear a great responsibility for bringing the company’s industrial relations into the modern era,” 
said Stephen Cotton, general secretary of the International Transport Workers’ Federation.
There have been notable service disruptions at Ryanair over the past 16 months, from staffing problems that 
caused the cancellation of thousands of flights in 2017, to a summer of strikes in 2018. 
Workers at Ryanair Sun have complained about the company forcing them into a more precarious state of 
employment. Ryanair closed its bases in Poland as of 2019 and said pilots and cabin crew could apply for jobs as 
self-employed contractors of Ryanair Sun.
Mr Cotton said Ryanair was “already struggling to match its fragmented use of labour agencies with the reality of 
separate negotiations with unions in multiple countries. It’s hard to see how creating two new subsidiaries, plus 
keeping Laudamotion at arm’s length, is going to help this situation.” 
He added that the restructuring was “at best . . . a convoluted waste of time and money”. Ryanair did not respond to 
a request for comment about labour issues.
At the company’s annual meeting in September 2018, almost 30 per cent of shareholders voted against the re-
election of Mr Bonderman, head of private equity firm TPG. 
However, the group’s agreement to replace the chairman was tempered by allowing him to stay another year.
Alan MacDougall, managing director of Pirc, which works with the Local Authority Pension Fund Forum, which 
holds about 1 per cent of Ryanair stock said: “We would have liked Bonderman to go earlier, but better late than 
never . . . There is obviously a clear commitment made by the company that will be hard for it to roll back on.”
Michael O’Leary remains a commanding presence at Ryanair
Mr Bonderman will step down in 2020, to be succeeded by board member, Stan McCarthy, former chief executive 
of food manufacturer Kerry Group. 
Additional reporting by Owen Walker
Load-Date: February 5, 2019
End of Document
Michael O’Leary moves to group CEO as Ryanair overhauls structure
Michael O’Leary moves to group CEO as Ryanair overhauls structure
 
FT.com
February 4, 2019 Monday 10:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 463 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Michael O’Leary has announced he will remain at the top of Ryanair for another five years, but will step down as 
chief executive of the airline itself as the company overhauls its structure.
He also said chairman David Bonderman would step down in summer 2020 after more than 20 years. 
Shareholders have been pushing for Mr Bonderman and senior independent director Kyran McLaughlin, whose 
departure was also announced, to step down for some time.
The news came as Ryanair said it had made a “disappointing” €22m pre-tax loss for the three months to the end of 
December 2018, a swing from a €113m profit the year before.
Ryanair’s share price fell 4.8 per cent to €10.85 in mid-morning trading as the carrier warned that — unlike its 
competitors — it did not think that summer 2019 airfares would rise.
The airline said it would move in the next year “to a group structure not dissimilar to that of IAG”, owner of British 
Airways and Iberia, with a small senior management team overseeing Ryanair, Laudamotion (based in Austria), 
Ryanair Sun (Poland) and Ryanair UK. 
Mr O’Leary will be chief executive of Ryanair Holdings until at least 2024 and the Ryanair airline itself will appoint a 
new chief executive later this year. The move would enable more “small scale M&A opportunities” such as last 
year’s takeover of Laudamotion, the company added.
Michael O’Leary moves to group CEO as Ryanair overhauls structure
Mr Bonderman will be succeeded as chairman by Stan McCarthy, who joined the board in 2017, “although a legend 
like David Bonderman will be a very hard act to follow”, Mr O’Leary said.
At Ryanair’s annual meeting in September 2018, almost 30 per cent of shareholders voted against the re-election of 
Mr Bonderman, who has been in the post for 22 years.
Mr O’Leary had previously conceded that Mr Bonderman, who co-founded private equity business TPG, would step 
down “in the next year or two”.
Mr O’Leary had not previously committed to a long-term future with Ryanair: in 2019 his five-year contract comes to 
an end and he had said he would prefer a rolling annual contract, while the board wanted another five-year 
agreement.
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said the news about Mr Bonderman showed that Ryanair was listening to its 
shareholders’ concerns but “still puts its own timetable on things”.
Revenue for the quarter increased 9 per cent to €1.53bn, in line with analysts’ expectations, and the airline 
reaffirmed January’s warning that full-year profit would be in the range of €1.0bn-€1.1bn.
The fall to a pre-tax loss was largely because of “weaker than expected airfares”, Mr O’Leary said, in part because 
European carriers flooded the market with seats over the winter, depressing prices. Ryanair’s average fare fell 6 per 
cent to under €30.
Ryanair itself flew 33m passengers in the period, up 8 per cent on the year before.
Load-Date: February 5, 2019
End of Document
Opening Quote: O’Leary becomes Ryanair ’s back seat pilot
Opening Quote: O’Leary becomes Ryanair’s back seat pilot 
 
FT.com
February 4, 2019 Monday 8:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 604 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Ryanair’s O’Leary to become back seat pilot
Can a Boeing 737 have a “back seat driver”? Probably not, but that is what Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary is 
proposing to become, having announced that he will step down as chief executive of the low-cost airline while 
remaining head of the group holding company. Mr O’Leary said Ryanair was moving “to a group structure not 
dissimilar to that of IAG”, owner of British Airways and Iberia, with a small senior management team overseeing 
Ryanair, Laudamotion (based in Austria), Ryanair Sun (Poland) and Ryanair UK.
Ryanair chairman David Bonderman will also step down in summer 2020 after more than 20 years. He will be 
succeeded by Stan McCarthy.
Why are these changes happening now? Because the company is expanding and trying to deal with cost and 
competition pressures. Alongside the management changes, Ryanair reported a “disappointing” €22m pre-tax loss 
for the three months to the end of December 2018, a swing from a €113m profit the year before — mainly because 
other low-cost rivals flooded the market with cheap seats.
OQ verdict: Ryanair has been finding that the hardest part of operating a low-cost airline these days is keeping the 
costs and fares low. And it seems to have decided the best way to fix this is to streamline management and seek 
scale through acquisitions. A small management team will now sit above the operating airlines and enable the 
pursuit of takeover opportunities, such as last year’s deal for Laudamotion in Austria. But it is hard to see Mr 
Opening Quote: O’Leary becomes Ryanair ’s back seat pilot
O’Leary taking a back seat in Ryanair’s day-to-day operations — or anyone having much fun serving under him as 
the airline’s CEO.
Flybe takeover deal flies into Tinkler turbulence
Please remain in your seats until the ‘fasten seatbelt’ sign is switched off — the 1p-a-share Flybe takeover by a 
consortium of Virgin Atlantic, Stobart and Cyrus Capital is experiencing turbulence . . . in the form of Flybe 
shareholder and former Stobart boss Andrew Tinkler. Mr Tinkler — who departed the Stobart pilot’s seat in 2017, 
then tried to eject chairman Iain Ferguson, and is currently trying to eject Flybe’s chairman Simon Laffin — has now 
offered the ailing airline a cash injection if it refuses to let the consortium’s deal take off.
According to a Daily Mail report at the weekend, confirmed by stock exchange announcement this morning, Mr 
Tinkler made a “very preliminary, short and highly conditional outline contingency proposal” for a capital injection 
into Flybe, if the sale of Flybe’s operating businesses to Connect Airways . . . does not complete.
OQ verdict: Mr Tinkler comes with a lot of baggage — and he is evidently not going to put it in the hold. He’s going 
to get it all out in the open. But why? Does he think he can make more from his Flybe shareholding by keeping the 
airline going and waiting for other takeover bids (possibly including his own)? Or is he just trying to keep his former 
colleagues stuck in the departure lounge, in order to get back at them? Probably both.
Today’s Small Talk column focuses on small company insolvencies:
Last year corporate deaths rose to levels not seen in five years. On almost every level, personal and company 
insolvencies are rising, and fast, according to the Insolvency Service. It is bleak news in a bleak midwinter. Maybe 
that is not a surprise. HMV and House of Fraser were just two of the high street names that collapsed last year. 
Then there was Conviviality and more recently Patisserie Valerie, the Luke Johnson-led cake chain. And of course, 
Carillion, the outsourcer that went spectacularly bust a year ago.
Read the rest of the column here.  
Load-Date: February 5, 2019
End of Document
Investors fret about dual-listed shares under a hard Brexit
Investors fret about dual-listed shares under a hard Brexit
 
FT.com
February 4, 2019 Monday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 476 words
Byline: Philip Stafford in London
Body
European investors are urging regulators to protect their ability to buy the London-listed shares of several major 
companies, including Royal Dutch Shell, Unilever and Ryanair, should the UK leave the EU abruptly at the end of 
next month.
The concern of asset managers is focused on the dozens of companies whose shares trade both in London, which 
is typically a bigger and more liquid market, and at another stock exchange elsewhere in the EU. 
Britain’s departure from the EU on March 29 without a deal would mean European fund managers could no longer 
buy and sell the London-traded shares of companies with dual listings. It has left institutional investors lobbying the 
European Securities and Markets Authority, a Paris-based regulator, to find a way to give share trading in London 
an “ equivalent” status to that in the rest of the EU.
The tussle is the latest flashpoint for investors over Brexit, which has dominated UK markets since the 2016 
referendum. Investors’ anxiety over dual listings has intensified given the near paralysis in parliament has kept alive 
the possibility of the UK leaving the EU without a deal.
“There is a fair amount of industry engagement regarding this topic with more to come in the next few weeks,” said 
Monica Gogna, a partner with the law firm Dechert, which represents asset managers.
Investors fret about dual-listed shares under a hard Brexit
Esma is under political pressure from within the EU to resist granting London-listed shares equal billing in the event 
of a hard Brexit, according to two people involved in the discussions. In a statement, Esma said that it was “aware 
of this issue in relation to the trading obligation for shares and are currently looking into it”.
About 90 companies could potentially be ensnared by the problem, with the majority of those having shares that 
trade both in London and Dublin. Some Amsterdam-listed companies are also affected. The London Stock 
Exchange  has said that EU investors would be forced to use the local listings to buy and sell such shares even if 
“liquidity is thin and the price is less favourable”.
Shell, Unilever and Ryanair declined to comment.
The picture is further complicated because any restrictions on the ability of EU-based investors to access the 
London listings could put them in breach of  Mifid II regulations that require them to secure the best price for their 
transactions. The London-listed shares are often the more active and liquid markets.
In a no-deal scenario, the LSE said that EU fund managers would still be able to access stocks that were only listed 
in London.
Some lawyers worry the dispute may lead some of the companies at risk to scrap their listing outside London, 
where UK authorities may also be more flexible in implementing some Mifid II requirements. The UK Financial 
Conduct Authority, which is not party to the discussions, declined to comment.
Additional reporting by Chris Flood
Load-Date: February 6, 2019
End of Document
Stocks to watch: Royal Mail, BHP, Match, Ryanair, Argenx, ASML
Stocks to watch: Royal Mail, BHP, Match, Ryanair, Argenx, ASML
 
FT.com
February 4, 2019 Monday 2:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1000 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Monday 14:30 GMT
What’s happening
● Ryanair slipped after giving a more cautious than expected view of summer. The airline left targets unchanged 
with in-line third-quarter results, but said it “cannot rule out further cuts to airfares and/or slightly lower full-year 
guidance”. 
“We do not share the recent optimistic outlook of some competitors that summer 2019 airfares will rise,” it added.
● Argenx, the Dutch biotechnology group, gained after announcing a partnership with Halozyme to use injectable 
drug delivery technology. The deal gave Argenx exclusive use of the system for a protein known as FcRn, which 
has been shown to increase the half-life of some drugs.
Analysts said that blocking the competition from accessing Halozyme’s technology would further differentiate 
Argenx’s efgartigimod, an experimental therapy for the treatment of patients with severe autoimmune diseases.
● Ultimate Software, the human resources and payroll systems maker, jumped after agreeing to be taken private by 
Hellman & Friedman. A price of $11 or $331.50 cash was a 19 per cent premium to Friday’s close.
“We view the transaction as bullish for the SaaS [software as a service] space generally, and for other human 
capital management/payroll vendors such as Paycom and Paylocity,” said Wedbush. “More broadly, SaaS vendors 
Stocks to watch: Royal Mail, BHP, Match, Ryanair, Argenx, ASML
have established themselves in a wide variety of niches (by function, by customer size, etc) that can sustain highly 
recurring and profitable revenue streams, and they can be valuable strategic assets to majors executing 
consolidation playbooks.”
Sellside stories
● Goldman Sachs started coverage on Match, the dating website operator, and photobook printer Shutterfly, with 
“sell” advice in an internet sector review. Its price targets were $45 and $40, respectively.
On Match, Goldman said: “The US dating pool is growing as fewer people are getting married; while online dating is 
growing in popularity, it still has plenty of runway.” But growth prospects do not match the stock’s high valuation. 
Subscribers are reaching the renewal point for the members-only Tinder Gold service, which was launched a year 
ago, and a reduction in TV advertising spend may affect the Match and Meetic brands, added Goldman. 
Shutterfly’s core printing business faces category maturity and increasing competition, with the company reporting 
consecutive quarters of year-on-year customer declines and rising customer acquisition costs, said Goldman. The 
broker blamed “limited marketing innovation, rising media costs and reduced product relevancy”, saying it was 
“concerned that the relevancy of Shutterfly’s core paper-based products is declining”.
Goldman’s review put “buy” ratings on listings website Yelp and Angi Homeservices, a digital marketplace for 
home-improvement tasks.
● HSBC upgraded Royal Mail to “buy” with a 300p target price. 
Royal Mail had suffered a news vacuum ahead of a strategic review in May that will include full-year results, with 
investors already pricing in a 50 per cent cut to the dividend, said HSBC. It argued that while, even under a bull 
case, Royal Mail’s profits were unlikely to recover to pre-2018 levels, the company should generate enough cash to 
cover a maintained dividend next year.
“It may seem counterintuitive to turn more positive on a stock where there is little positive news flow, but with 
the outlook for the year to March 2019 now broadly settled . . . we think that the announcement of 
management’s strategic plan in May will be the next positive catalyst for the shares. We note that the CEO has 
purchased shares recently which we consider to be a positive indicator for the stock.”HSBC
● JPMorgan Cazenove downgraded BHP to “underweight” in a mining sector review. It cited BHP’s relatively weak 
balance sheet and the likelihood that capital expenditure would creep higher for its petroleum business. The broker 
put a £19.80 target on BHP while leaving Rio Tinto and Anglo American on “outperform” ratings. 
“We remain positive on the investment case for UK diversified miners, due to substantial discounts versus 
historical multiples and [to] the market. But valuations and investment themes are diverging. Rio and Anglo 
American remain cheap even if iron ore prices fall 25 per cent to $65 a tonne, [but] BHP screens expensive 
after outperforming Rio by 12 per cent since January 2018, and is now the only diversified not trading at a 
substantial discount versus its late cycle average multiple.”JPMorgan Cazenove
● Jefferies started coverage of William Hill, Ladbrokes owner GVC and Paddy Power Betfair with “buy” ratings.  
“We see two stages in the evolution of the UK-listed gaming sector: 1. A re-rating now that the regulation-
driven downgrade cycle is largely complete and there is greater earnings certainty; 2. A realisation of the scale 
of US sports betting opportunity.”Jefferies
By the end of 2023, the US sports betting market could be worth $12bn in gross yield, almost three times as big as 
the UK, with rolling state legislation implying at least a decade of growth, estimated Jefferies. Including only the 
states that have already legalised gaming, Jefferies’ price targets were £11 for GVC, £79 for Paddy Power and 
230p for William Hill.
● In brief: Adyen rated new “buy” at Goldman Sachs; ASML raised to “buy” at Liberum; Endesa cut to “neutral” at 
Citigroup; Europcar rated new “neutral” at JPMorgan; Hapag-Lloyd upgraded to “buy” at Berenberg; 
Stocks to watch: Royal Mail, BHP, Match, Ryanair, Argenx, ASML
HeidelbergCement raised to “buy” at HSBC; Kaz Minerals downgraded to “hold” at HSBC; LafargeHolcim upgraded 
to “hold” at HSBC; Wm Morrison upgraded to “neutral” at Citigroup; Munich Re upgraded to “neutral” at Merrill 
Lynch; SAP cut to “neutral” at Merrill Lynch; Scor raised to “buy” at Merrill Lynch; SCS downgraded to “hold” at 
Investec; Swiss Re cut to “neutral” at Merrill Lynch; Tui upgraded to “buy” at Citigroup; William Hill upgraded to 
“buy” at Shore Capital.
Read more
European stocks slip while the dollar holds ground
For market updates and comment, follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Load-Date: February 5, 2019
End of Document
EU gives airlines deadline for no-deal Brexit
EU gives airlines deadline for no-deal Brexit
 
FT.com
February 1, 2019 Friday 9:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 805 words
Byline: Alex Barker in Brussels and Josh Spero in London
Body
Brussels is to give airline groups such as IAG, owner of British Airways and Iberia, a seven-month deadline to 
overhaul their shareholder make-up in order to retain full flying rights within the EU if Britain crashes out of the bloc 
without a deal next month. 
The tight adjustment period for airlines, which must show they are majority owned and controlled by EU nationals in 
order to have full rights to fly through the continent, is outlined in revisions to a draft law seen by the Financial 
Times. 
EU member states are broadly supporting the approach ahead of Britain’s scheduled departure on March 29. 
Aviation is a closely-regulated sector that faces a double blow from Brexit, since an abrupt UK departure from the 
EU would disrupt not only flying schedules but the licenses that carriers currently use to operate, which are 
administered based on the nationality of shareholders. 
Senior EU officials say the proposed seven-month grace period is coupled with exacting requirements and 
deadlines, which would force carriers such as IAG and Ryanair, which also has a large number of UK shareholders, 
to potentially trigger forced-sales of shares by non-EU investors.
Plans by airline groups to maintain existing licenses must be presented to regulators within two weeks of the draft 
law being adopted, which could come later this month.
EU gives airlines deadline for no-deal Brexit
“That plan shall set out, in a complete and precise manner, the measures intended to achieve full compliance with 
the [EU] ownership and control requirements as from the 27 October 2019 at the latest,” the draft legislation states. 
“Where the air carrier has not presented a plan within the [two-week] time limit, the competent licensing authority 
shall revoke the operating license.”
While Ryanair and Luton-based easyJet say they have contingency plans in place to ensure 50 per cent of their 
shareholders are EU nationals, potentially by using forced sales of shares, IAG has been reticent in explaining its 
proposals to cope with a no-deal Brexit. 
Independent estimates suggest IAG faces the biggest challenge of all, with some analysts putting its current EU 
ownership as low as 25 per cent.
Brussels has warned IAG its favoured plan to continue flying freely around Europe would not comply with EU laws, 
according to senior officials. 
At a press conference on Friday, IAG chairman Willie Walsh declined to comment on the work IAG was doing with 
its Spanish airlines to make them ready for Brexit. He added that he expected the UK and EU to reach “a 
comprehensive agreement” on Brexit.
An IAG spokesperson said the group was “confident” they would comply with EU ownership rules post-Brexit. 
José Luis Ábalos, Spain’s minister of public works, told parliament this week that Iberia and other airlines were 
“working intensively” to adjust their ownership and control structure to be ready for Brexit.
The enforcement arrangements for the EU’s airline ownership rules are part of a package of emergency laws that 
aim to keep basic transport services running if Britain leaves without a deal next month.
Spain, France, Finland and Poland led calls to offer far more generous arrangements for hauliers and airline 
groups, so levels of disruption were reduced in the aftermath of a no-deal Brexit. Spain particularly called for a more 
relaxed approach to enforcing airline ownership rules. 
By contrast the European Commission has pursued a less forgiving approach, arguing future negotiations with 
Britain would be undermined by offering single market benefits to UK transport groups in a no-deal scenario, even 
for a temporary period. 
The compromise discussed by ambassadors from the other 27 member states extends more operating freedoms to 
cargo carriers, with a cap on flight numbers. Passenger flights are limited to point-to-point journeys, potentially 
causing considerable disruption for non-EU airlines operating from the UK. 
French calls for hauliers to enjoy full single market rights for a limited period after Brexit was rejected by other 
member states.
Germany and the Netherlands were among countries calling for a more disciplined approach to contingency 
measures for a no-deal Brexit, according to a diplomatic note of the meeting. 
In its original proposal, the commission avoided giving airlines a period to adjust. At this week’s meeting it noted 
“the concerns” of several member states over airlines’ ownership and control, including Spain, France, Cyprus, 
Hungary and Ireland. But EU officials noted “we should not give an uncompetitive advantage to those which did not 
plan in advance”.
The seven-month deadline was described by officials as a way to “to bring [airlines] in line with the ownership 
regulations” in a fair way, since the carriers would need to submit their restructuring plans before Brexit occurs. 
Additional reporting by Jim Brunsden and Mehreen Khan in Brussels
EU gives airlines deadline for no-deal Brexit
Load-Date: February 4, 2019
End of Document
Wizz Air boss blames Brexit as profits nosedive
Wizz Air boss blames Brexit as profits nosedive
 
FT.com
January 30, 2019 Wednesday 4:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 430 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of Wizz Air has blamed Brexit for undermining demand as profits nosedived, with high fuel 
prices slowing the European low-cost carrier’s expansion. 
Pre-tax profits plummeted 90 per cent to €1.8m in the three months to December against €14.6m the year before as 
uncertainty surrounding Brexit hit sales. 
“We just don’t know how Brexit is going to play out and how it’s going to affect the revenue lines. What we’ve 
started seeing is a lowering of consumer confidence,” said Wizz Air boss Jozsef Varadi.
However, the Hungarian airline continued to expand, albeit at a slower rate than it had planned. 
Revenue increased 21 per cent to €512.7m, in line with analysts’ expectations, and revenue per available seat 
kilometre, a standard industry unit, also rose 5.6 per cent.
Mr Varadi reaffirmed the company’s full-year profit guidance of €270m to €300m, but said this depended on Brexit.
Wizz’s shares were up 1.4 per cent at £31.28 after lunch, slightly buoyed by positive news about strong growth in 
ancillary revenue — add-ons beyond the ticket price — which were up 22 per cent.
Mr Varadi said Wizz did not yet meet the EU’s threshold for retaining flying rights in the bloc in the event of a no-
deal Brexit. It has to be more than 50 per cent EU-owned and controlled.
Wizz Air boss blames Brexit as profits nosedive
He said that while 53 per cent of its shareholders qualified at the moment, 28 per cent were UK-based, who would 
not be counted after Brexit.
He raised the prospect of the company disenfranchising shareholders to meet the target, as Ryanair has 
suggested, but the group also had other plans, such as using a trust structure. 
The European Commission has indicated that it will not necessarily accept trusts for the purposes of determining 
ownership and control.
Wizz’s cost per available seat kilometre, another industry unit, rose 9.3 per cent including fuel, and 4.3 per cent 
without fuel. The main non-fuel driver of costs was a 22 per cent increase in staff costs, largely thanks to a rise in 
pilots’ salaries.
Mr Varadi said costs surged because the airline used its planes less often, “but with the recent fall in fuel prices we 
will be increasing our utilisation levels back to the high levels from the start of financial year 2020”.
While Wizz carried 8.1m passengers in the quarter, up 15 per cent, it also slowed its expansion. The hours flown by 
each Wizz aircraft fell 6.6 per cent to 11.3 hours per day.
Rishika Savjani, analyst at Barclays, said in a note that Wizz had “brighter prospects” for 2020, with ancillary 
revenue rising and slower growth in market capacity, which supports fares.
Load-Date: January 31, 2019
End of Document
Norwegian announces rights issue amid finance concerns
Norwegian announces rights issue amid finance concerns
 
FT.com
January 29, 2019 Tuesday 7:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 487 words
Byline: Richard Milne in Oslo and Josh Spero in London
Body
Lossmaking Norwegian Air Shuttle announced an emergency multibillion rights issue on Tuesday as worries 
increased about the low-cost carrier’s finances and it said it was no longer in takeover talks. 
The size of the rights issue at NKr3bn ($350m) is more than half the airline’s equity value of NKr5.6bn, highlighting 
the problems it faces as it struggles to stay afloat. 
Investors had long been worried about Norwegian’s finances as it lost money after a rapid expansion on low-cost 
long-haul flights. Buyers have been circling the group since last year as its transatlantic services put pressure on its 
finances.
Shares fell as much as 30 per cent to a six-year low but recovered to stand down 12 per cent as the airline said it 
would change from “growth to profitability” by divesting aircraft, postponing deliveries and continuing its NKr2bn 
cost savings plan. 
The company said it was open to fresh takeover negotiations but conceded there were none ongoing after IAG, the 
owner of British Airways, last week announced it would sell its stake in the Oslo-based carrier after failing to agree 
on a deal.
Shares fell more than 20 per cent last week after the IAG news.
Some analysts said last week that Norwegian’s share price could have halved if it were not for the prospect of a 
potential takeover from a rival such as Lufthansa or Ryanair.
Norwegian announces rights issue amid finance concerns
Norwegian said that a reinforced balance sheet should aid its “standalone financial strength”. It added: “The board 
will nevertheless continue to be willing to engage in consolidation discussions that can develop shareholder value in 
Norwegian.”
Strikingly, it said the rights issue would be backed not only by its largest shareholders, who include chief executive 
Bjorn Kjos and chairman Bjorn Kise, but also by the shipping-to-oil rigs billionaire John Fredriksen. 
Norwegian did not disclose what stake his family investment company would take, nor the discount the new shares 
would be issued at.
It pre-announced preliminary results for 2018 with revenues increasing by a third to NKr40.3bn but its earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation dropped to a loss of NKr2.2bn compared with a NKr59m profit a 
year earlier and a NKr3.1bn gain in 2016. 
Cash and cash equivalents was NKr1.9bn at the end of 2018 compared with NKr4bn a year earlier.
Mr Kjos said he was confident that Norwegian could become profitable but admitted there would be “seasonal 
variations”. He denied that Norwegian had been in breach of its loan covenants.
He added that talks were ongoing over a potential joint venture for the large number of aircraft Norwegian owns 
itself, rather than leasing as is common in the airline industry.
Norwegian, Europe’s third-largest low-cost carrier behind Ryanair and easyJet, has aggressively expanded into 
long-haul travel with destinations in North and South America and Asia. 
In recent weeks, it has closed several routes and bases as it seeks to cut costs.
Load-Date: January 30, 2019
End of Document
Norwegian Air : pressure drop
Norwegian Air: pressure drop
 
FT.com
January 29, 2019 Tuesday 6:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 337 words
Body
“You’ve done too much, much too young,” sang ska band The Specials. That message chimes with the story 
unfolding at low-cost carrier Norwegian Air. On Tuesday it announced a NKr3bn (€310m) rights issue, nearly half 
the previous day’s market value, to prevent a breach of debt covenants. This was the second since June. Expect 
cost cuts to follow after years of aggressive expansion. Like a tearaway adolescent, Norwegian has been grounded. 
And yet the market will not give up on the airline.
Perhaps because its model worked, for a while. Undercutting long-haul competition on fares, Norwegian grabbed 
market share and rattled rival airline bosses. Enough so that British Airways owner International Airlines Group 
made a number of takeover attempts last year. But as losses mounted and equity markets wobbled, its appetite 
waned.
IAG’s decision to permanently walk away from a deal last week suggests it worries the experiment in European low-
cost long-haul will soon end. Norwegian’s largest loss to date, also announced on Tuesday, adds weight to this 
assertion. 
Low-cost, short-haul carriers such as Ryanair compete by working their planes harder. They manage to get about 
11 “block hours” a day from their aircraft compared to roughly nine at legacy carriers, according to Bernstein. The 
same model does not work on long-haul flights. Indeed, Norwegian’s long-haul utilisation is similar to rivals such as 
British Airways. 
Shareholders’ best hope remains a takeover. That hope explains the relatively small drop in the share price, 15 per 
cent on the day. The departure of IAG leaves no immediate buyer on the radar. The next test is whether the airline 
can repay its November 2019 bonds. Someone thinks so. Its yield fell to 9 per cent on the day, from 30 per cent. 
Norwegian Air : pressure drop
Assuming the rights issue is successful, Norwegian will still be around. Sceptics should watch Norwegian’s 
progress from the terminal.
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Please tell us what you think in the comments section 
below. 
Load-Date: January 31, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair completes takeover of Austrian carrier Laudamation
Ryanair completes takeover of Austrian carrier Laudamation
 
FT.com
January 29, 2019 Tuesday 11:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 154 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London
Body
Ryanair has announced that it has acquired low-cost Austrian carrier Laudamation, completing a takeover which 
began in March 2018.
Ryanair initially bought 25 per cent of Laudamotion, founded by Austrian motor-racing star Niki Lauda, while 
awaiting permission to buy another 50 per cent, which was granted in July 2018.
On Tuesday, Ryanair said it had bought the remaining quarter in late December, but did not immediately disclose 
what it had paid. In March it said it would pay less than €50m for 75 per cent.
Laudamotion’s chief executive, Andreas Gruber, said: “With the backing of Ryanair, Laudamotion is set to grow 
strongly over the next three years to carry 10m passengers a year.”
In a trading update earlier in January, Ryanair said start-up losses in Laudamation would be €140m for the year, cut 
from €150m because of better than expected cost performance. However, in March 2018 it had expected these 
costs to be €50m.
Load-Date: January 29, 2019
End of Document
The London Report: Airlines lift off after easyJet matches forecasts
The London Report: Airlines lift off after easyJet matches forecasts
 
FT.com
January 22, 2019 Tuesday 7:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 195 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
UK oil services stocks were under pressure after industry bellwether Halliburton gave a cautious first-quarter 
outlook, with Wood Group the day’s sharpest blue-chip faller. 
Exane BNP Paribas added to negative sentiment around Wood with a downgrade to “neutral”. Debt reduction 
targets look challenging and accounting concerns need to be addressed, said the broker, which listed the treatment 
of exceptional costs, acquisition-related adjustments and lease liabilities as problem areas clouding the valuation.
Sector peer Hunting fell after Halliburton pointed to continued pricing pressure on fracking equipment.
EasyJet led an airline stock rally. Its first-quarter results matched forecasts once costs from drone disruption at 
Gatwick were ignored and came with unchanged guidance, in contrast to last week’s profit warning from Ryanair.
Ocado gained after hosting an investor workshop to explain new reporting protocols. In the course of the meeting, 
management revealed “amazing” details on the fees charged for using its delivery warehouses, said Bernstein 
Research. The new data suggest earnings and cash flow forecasts “may be much too low in future years”, it said. 
Load-Date: January 22, 2019
End of Document
The London Report: Kingfisher dives on fears over French division
The London Report: Kingfisher dives on fears over French division
 
FT.com
January 21, 2019 Monday 7:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 388 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Kingfisher was the FTSE 100’s sharpest faller as fears about its French division led RBC to downgrade the DIY 
retailer. 
Concerns about its products and online offering have led Kingfisher’s Castorama chain to underperform the overall 
French market, RBC said. The broker also saw structural problems, arguing that while Castorama had more stores 
than main rival Leroy Merlin in high population areas, the latter’s focus on lower-income neighbourhoods gave it 
greater exposure to faster growing populations.
Hammerson led real estate developers lower after JPMorgan Cazenove said retail property was facing a perfect 
storm of headwinds. The worsening newsflow from the UK over Christmas suggested buyers of shopping centres 
would increasingly incorporate expectations of falling rents into their forecasts, said JPMorgan. Its analysis found 
only three examples since 1987 when UK property stocks gained while capital values were falling.
Housebuilders Berkeley and Taylor Wimpey edged lower after Rightmove’s January survey showed London 
asking prices falling to their weakest level in more than three years. 
Rentokil slipped, with Goldman Sachs removing the stock from its “buy” list on valuation grounds. The pest control 
group “combines an attractive organic growth profile with significant potential to grow” via acquisitions, particularly 
to consolidate its position in North America and expand to emerging markets, Goldman said. But based on forward 
earnings Rentokil’s valuation has touched a record high and the stock sits at a 100 per cent premium to the wider 
market, so better value can be found elsewhere, the broker argued.
The London Report: Kingfisher dives on fears over French division
BAE Systems gained after agreeing to sell a majority stake in its UK-based combat vehicles business to 
Rheinmetall of Germany. 
Wizz Air and Ryanair both gained on the back of a positive note from Davy Stockbrokers, which argued that 
European airline stocks were too cheap given capacity growth was likely to slow and fuel costs had eased. 
Dixons Carphone rose on a  report that Elliott Advisors, the activist investor, was considering taking a stake.
RPC inched higher on expectations that Apollo Global Management would agree to buy the packaging maker as 
early as today. Apollo first admitted to takeover talks with RPC four months ago and has been widely reported to be 
raising finance for a deal. 
Load-Date: January 21, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair : clipped wings
Ryanair: clipped wings
 
FT.com
January 18, 2019 Friday 4:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 338 words
Body
Smart dressers, the best tans and skilled at smooth talking in an emergency — airline pilots and bankers have so 
much in common. In Europe, their employers have also been lousy investments. 
Low-cost carrier Ryanair’s second profit warning in four months triggered another, shortlived sell-off on Friday. 
European airline shares have descended 24 per cent over the past year, compared with 12 per cent for the overall 
market. Bank shares are down 27 per cent. 
Ryanair blamed winter fares that are expected to be 7 per cent lower than a year earlier. It had to work hard to keep 
passenger numbers growing. Under obstreperous boss Michael O’Leary, Ryanair has outdone the banking industry 
in mishandling client relations, with cancellations, strikes and rows over compensation.
Mr O’Leary’s warnings about overcapacity on European short-haul routes point to a broader gloom, especially if 
Christmas drone alerts at the UK’s Gatwick airport and yellow-vest street protests in Paris have hit passenger 
numbers. 
Rising oil prices up until October failed to force airline managers into capacity cuts. But the subsequent steep fall in 
fuel costs should give profits a tailwind, assuming smart hedging. The excess seat problem may also ease. 
Barclays sees 5.6 per cent growth in European short-haul capacity in the first three months of 2019, down from 7.5 
per cent in the previous quarter. Booked a summer flight to Majorca? Best check the plane’s still flying. 
That brings capacity rates closer to a reasonable multiple of the likely pace of European economic growth this year, 
which will determine underlying demand — assuming British politicians do not crash Europe’s economy with a hard 
Brexit. 
Ryanair : clipped wings
Image-rebuilding will take time. Still, Ryanair trades at a multiple of 10 times forward earnings, barely higher than its 
historic lows. Bank stocks may be left at the airport. Ryanair could push for an upgrade. 
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Please tell us what you think of Ryanair in the comments 
section below. 
Load-Date: January 22, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair issues second profit warning in four months
Ryanair issues second profit warning in four months
 
FT.com
January 18, 2019 Friday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 435 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair has issued its second profit warning in four months, saying airfares were falling more than 
expected over the winter.
The company said on Friday that full-year profits would be in the range of €1bn-€1.1bn, down from €1.1bn-€1.2bn, 
because of a predicted 7 per cent drop in ticket prices. The previous forecast was for a 2 per cent fall, but fast 
growth in the number of seats is pushing down prices across the low-cost sector.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary said he was “disappointed” about the downgrade and warned: “We cannot rule out 
further cuts to air fares and/or slightly lower full-year guidance if there are unexpected Brexit or security 
developments.”
Alex Paterson, analyst at Investec, said he was “not surprised” by the warning. There have been notable service 
disruptions at Ryanair over the past 16 months, from staffing problems that caused the cancellation of thousands of 
flights in 2017, to a summer of strikes in 2018.
“They will be seeing some weakness from that,” Mr Paterson said, “and the only lever they’ve got left to pull is to go 
on sale and push fares down.” In a sale earlier this month, Ryanair was offering up to £30 off return flights.
Ryanair had a summer of strikes across Europe last year, including five days by Irish pilots and two days of co-
ordinated pan-European action by cabin crew. Spanish cabin crew called off three days of strikes earlier this month, 
Ryanair issues second profit warning in four months
but Reuters reported this week that several Ryanair pilots’ unions had suspended talks because Ryanair was 
threatening to close their bases.
European airline shares have performed badly over the past year as high fuel prices, summer disruption and 
capacity growth have knocked investor enthusiasm. Ryanair is down 40 per cent on a year ago, while competitor 
easyJet has dropped almost a quarter. Hungary’s low-cost carrier Wizz is down 14 per cent over the year.
Mr Paterson said Ryanair had hedged its fuel at above-market prices.
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said he expected Ryanair’s warning to weigh on other low-cost airlines but not 
the sector as a whole.
Ryanair and easyJet’s strategy of boosting “ancillary” revenues, such as charges to reserve seats, meant they 
preferred to have fuller planes even if the fares were lower, Mr Roeska said.
Ryanair will publish its third-quarter results on February 4. In October, it lowered its full-year profit forecast from the 
range €1.25bn-€1.35bn, blaming staff strikes, resulting compensation costs and the high price of oil.
Shares in the group reacted modestly to the latest profit warning, falling 1.9 per cent in early trading to €9.88.
Load-Date: February 4, 2019
End of Document
EU urges states to detail airline ownership ahead of Brexit
EU urges states to detail airline ownership ahead of Brexit
 
FT.com
January 13, 2019 Sunday 10:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 438 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Brussels has written to the 27 states that will remain in the EU once Britain leaves the bloc, asking them to explain 
“as a matter of urgency” how airlines they license will comply with its rules on ownership
In a letter sent last week and seen by the Financial Times, Violeta Bulc, the transport commissioner, said not every 
national government had detailed their plans on how carriers would meet “ownership and control requirements in all 
the possible scenarios” of Brexit. These scenarios include a no-deal exit, where the UK leaves without an 
agreement.
Ms Bulc asked transport ministers — “given the remaining short timeframe ahead” — to explain how affected 
airlines licensed by each country would meet the requirements on March 30, the day after Britain leaves the EU, 
and whether national authorities thought these measures sufficient. 
The bloc’s rules stipulate that carriers must be owned and controlled by more than 50 per cent of EU investors in 
order to retain their ability to fly freely in the bloc. 
Ms Bulc’s letter represents a ramping up of no-deal preparations with just over two months before the UK’s 
departure. She had previously written to the states in July 2017 to clarify how they intended to meet the regulations.
Some companies — including IAG, owner of British Airways and Iberia — have yet to ensure they will reach that 
threshold after Brexit, when investors who are UK nationals will no longer count towards the tally. 
EU urges states to detail airline ownership ahead of Brexit
Both Ryanair and easyJet have said that they will remove voting rights from non-EU shareholders to meet the 
threshold if need be, while both have applied for secondary operating licences to allow flights to continue — Ryanair 
from the UK, easyJet from Austria.
The FT reported last week that Brussels had warned IAG that its favoured plans for its airlines to continue flying in 
and around Europe in the event of a no-deal Brexit did not work.
Part of IAG’s strategy to maintain both UK and EU operating rights is to stress that its most important individual 
airlines are domestically owned through a series of trusts and companies, rather than being viewed as part of the 
bigger group, which has a high proportion of non-EU investors.
The Spanish government later told the Reuters news agency that it was “convinced that Iberia is a Spanish 
company”, but added: “We are also convinced that, if necessary, the company will make the necessary adjustments 
to make sure it complies with European regulations.”
IAG, which is a Spanish company that has its headquarters in the UK, said: “We are confident that we will comply 
with the EU and the UK ownership and control rules post-Brexit.”
Load-Date: January 14, 2019
End of Document
Flight delays in Europe more than double
Flight delays in Europe more than double
 
FT.com
January 9, 2019 Wednesday 6:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 433 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Flight delays in Europe more than doubled last year as airlines and air traffic controllers failed to hit EU 
performance targets.
Delays rose to a total of 19.1m minutes last year, double that of the previous year. The average delay per flight was 
1.73 minutes in 2018 against EU performance targets of half a minute. 
However, the number of flights hit a record 11m, according to figures from Eurocontrol, which co-ordinates national 
air traffic management agencies. 
The figures were contained in an email sent by Eurocontrol director-general Eamonn Brennan, seen by the 
Financial Times. The email also highlighted that September 7 2018 was the busiest day in European aviation 
history, with 37,101 flights.
Eurocontrol had previously projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 would rise to 14.3m, much lower than the 
final figures.
In his email, Mr Brennan wrote that lack of capacity and staff shortages among air traffic controllers were 
responsible for 60 per cent of the delays, followed by weather, 25 per cent, and strikes, 14 per cent.
John Strickland, an aviation consultant, said he did not expect things to get better “unless there’s a reduction in 
traffic”. However, capacity figures published by EU airlines indicate the number of flights will grow this year. 
Flight delays in Europe more than double
He also pointed to the slow development of the Single European Sky project, which was supposed to improve 
efficiency but is “woefully far from fruition”.
Strikes by and shortages of Europe’s air traffic controllers have infuriated airlines, prompting IAG, owner of British 
Airways, and low-cost carriers Ryanair, Wizz Air and easyJet to file complaints with the European Commission.
The airlines claimed that the commission’s failure to deal with strikes in countries such as France was breaching 
Europeans’ freedom of movement, one of the EU’s four fundamental freedoms. 
IAG’s low-cost Vueling airline, based in Spain, has in the past had 50 per cent of its flights affected by strikes.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, has criticised the “lethargy and inaction” of the commission and 
national governments. 
In Europe, air traffic control is managed on a national level. “Nothing will get in the way of the four freedoms, unless 
you’re a French air traffic controller,” he said.
European transport commissioner Violeta Bulc has called for more investment and adoption of technology from EU 
states to combat delays. Last summer’s congestion, she said, was “stimulating everyone to act”.
European passengers would be in for “a torrid summer” if industrial action and staff shortages are not resolved, Mr 
Strickland said.
Load-Date: January 10, 2019
End of Document
Stocks to watch: ITV, Ryanair , EnQuest, Wm Morrison, Sika, Ubisoft
Stocks to watch: ITV, Ryanair, EnQuest, Wm Morrison, Sika, Ubisoft
 
FT.com
January 8, 2019 Tuesday 3:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1097 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Tuesday 14:00 GMT
What’s happening
● SIG led the FTSE 250 fallers after a full-year update from the insulation supplier missed expectations because of 
a further deterioration in mainland European trading. 
Like-for-like sales in France and Germany were down sharply in the last two months of 2018 while UK and Irish 
sales remained subdued, SIG said. It guided for £75m full-year earnings, at the bottom of its previous range of 
£75m to £80m but also included up to £3m of property profits. 
“The outlook for volumes remains patchy at best given the economic and political uncertainty in a number of 
markets. On the flip side, management has delivered much better gross margins (by increasing prices and 
jettisoning low margin customers) as well as returning overheads to where they were three to four years ago. A 
full year of these benefits will be seen in 2019. So while we are lowering our top-end forecasts by 4 per cent, 
we don’t see much change to consensus.”Peel Hunt
● Wm Morrison retreated after its Christmas period trading update showed 3.6 per cent like-for-like sales growth 
excluding fuel, against a consensus expecting 4.1 per cent. Management left full-year guidance unchanged but 
cautioned on a conference call that consumer confidence had weakened.
Stocks to watch: ITV, Ryanair , EnQuest, Wm Morrison, Sika, Ubisoft
Separately, Kantar Worldpanel’s supermarket survey for December showed industry sales up 1.2 per cent. Tesco 
was the best performer among the big four with 1.7 per cent sales growth, while J Sainsbury was the laggard with 
sales down 1.2 per cent.
“It’s safe to say that volume trends at Morrisons supermarkets are challenging. In good part, a cautious 
consumer is to blame it seems and according to Kantar market share data, Morrisons hasn’t seen a major 
deterioration in relative momentum.”Exane
● Sika of Switzerland slipped after a 2018 guidance cut overshadowed its SFr2.5bn purchase of French mortar 
manufacturer Parex. The chemicals maker blamed one-off merger costs and higher than expected raw material 
inflation for 2018 earnings coming in at between SFr940m and SFr960m, compared with a market consensus of 
SFr997m.
Sellside stories
● RBC downgraded Vodafone to “underperform” from “outperform” with a 125p price target, cut from 260p. Debt to 
fund Vodafone’s €18bn deal to buy divisions from Liberty Global leaves the group with “insufficient financial 
headroom” to cope with headwinds including 5G spectrum auction costs and competition from an entrant in 
Germany, RBC said. 
“Vodafone’s frenetic portfolio restructuring has left the company more European and converged, but also 
vulnerable. Its underlying markets remain ‘challenging’ and it has very little financial headroom despite 
synergies and cost cutting. Vodafone has options with its towers but faces a threat from 5G spectrum. The 
dividend is unsustainable even before we consider a macro downturn.”RBC
With 5G spectrum licences likely to cost from €4.5bn to €12bn, Vodafone’s €4.1bn per-year dividend cost looks 
unsustainable beyond the March 2019 year-end, said RBC. And while Vodafone will probably sell a minority stake 
in its mobile towers business, the likely proceeds of around €4.3bn would only fund one year’s dividend at the 
current payout, it added. 
● Berenberg downgraded Ryanair to “sell” from “hold” in a transport and logistics sector review. Ryanair “faces 
sustained competitive pressure to pricing, while its cost progress remains highly uncertain”, it said. 
European short-haul capacity looks set to increase 7.5 per cent this year as industry optimism and low financing 
costs increase the risk of overcapacity, said Berenberg. It forecast fares to weaken in 2019 and advised selling 
EasyJet, but kept Wizz Air on a “buy” rating, citing its “unique ability to fight unit revenue pressure and further grind 
down unit costs”.
● Liberum repeated “buy” advice on ITV with a 260p target price in response to news on Monday that STV, the 
Scottish licence holder for its flagship channel, had signed a five-year deal to put programmes on Sky’s video-on-
demand services. Sky, whose current deal with ITV expires this year, has so far resisted offering retransmission 
fees.
STV’s agreement with Sky “has been worded with no explicit reference for fees for ITV1 but with an implicit 
recognition it is included”, said Liberum. This “is a pointer to a deal between ITV and Sky on retransmission fees, 
which we believe would lead to a material (circa 15 per cent) uplift on consensus earnings”, it said. 
● RBC corrected a note released on Monday on EnQuest, which stated that the North Sea oil explorer was at risk of 
breaching banking covenants. RBC said it had wrongly identified the required covenant ratios and said there was 
no risk of a breach under its current oil price assumptions. But RBC repeated its downgrade of EnQuest to 
“underperform” from “outperform” with a 15p target price. 
● In brief: ABB upgraded to “buy” at Merrill Lynch; Aker Solutions upgraded to “outperform” at Bernstein; Bankia 
raised to “hold” at Jefferies; Bouygues downgraded to “neutral” at Credit Suisse; Capital & Counties upgraded to 
“add” at Peel Hunt; Carnival raised to “buy” at Shore Capital; Carrefour upgraded to “buy” at Merrill Lynch; Duerr 
downgraded to “underperform” at Merrill Lynch; Electrocomponents raised to “buy” at Jefferies and UBS; Geberit 
Stocks to watch: ITV, Ryanair , EnQuest, Wm Morrison, Sika, Ubisoft
downgraded to “sell” at Goldman Sachs; Grafton upgraded to “buy” at Canaccord; Grenke downgraded to “hold” at 
Berenberg; Footasylum cut to “hold” at Liberum; Keywords Studios raised to “outperform” at Davy; Kion 
downgraded to “sell” at Goldman Sachs; Legrand cut to “neutral” at Merrill Lynch; Mapfre cut to “neutral” at 
JPMorgan; Marshalls downgraded to “hold” at Canaccord; Metso upgraded to “buy” at Merrill Lynch; Outotec 
upgraded to “buy” at Goldman Sachs; Petrofac upgraded to “market perform” at Bernstein; Prysmian raised to “buy” 
at Goldman Sachs; Rotork upgraded to “buy” at Merrill Lynch; SMCP upgraded to “buy” at Jefferies; Sandvik raised 
to “buy” at Merrill Lynch; Schneider downgraded to “neutral” at Merrill Lynch and cut to “sell” at Goldman Sachs; 
Signify downgraded to “neutral” at Merrill Lynch; Smiths cut to “underperform” at Merrill Lynch; Storebrand 
upgraded to “overweight” at JPMorgan; Swiss Life upgraded to “overweight” at JPMorgan; Telia cut to “neutral” at 
JPMorgan; Ubisoft raised to “buy” at Kepler Cheuvreux; Unipol downgraded to “neutral” at JPMorgan; Vesuvius 
upgraded to “buy” at Merrill Lynch; Wartsila downgraded to “underperform” at Merrill Lynch.
Read more
Stocks pick up momentum on trade talks optimism
For market updates and comment follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Load-Date: January 8, 2019
End of Document
IAG/Brexit: flight plight
IAG/Brexit: flight plight
 
FT.com
January 8, 2019 Tuesday 10:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 358 words
Body
Soothing words do little to calm anxious flyers. Nor will they be much help in dealing with a disorderly Brexit. Anglo-
Spanish airlines group IAG has exuded confidence about its ability to navigate tricky ownership rules. But the latest 
signals from Brussels are not reassuring. 
Airlines operating within the EU need to show at least half their shares are held and controlled by EU nationals. 
Only a fifth of IAG’s shares will be owned by these bestowers of grace, estimates broker Davy. IAG is coy about 
how it would avoid falling foul of the ownership rules. But it will try to rely on a convoluted structure that ensures 
voting rights are held locally — by the El Corte Inglés store owner in the case of Iberia, it  emerged recently. 
Brussels may not be convinced. 
A sense of proportion is necessary. Fears of big restrictions on flights into the EU or US will not be realised . The 
extra pressure on sterling resulting from a disorderly Brexit is probably more important than the ownership issue, 
although IAG is better hedged than some rivals. A lot of bad news is already in the share price. IAG shares are 
trading on less than six times next year’s earnings, near an all-time low. 
IAG’s inscrutable calm contrasts with Ryanair’s longstanding warnings of “chaos”. If there is a hard Brexit, the low-
cost rival  plans to strip UK shareholders of voting rights. If they opt to sell, they will only be able to trade with 
Europeans. Brits, like other non-EU nationals, can buy US depositary receipts. Tellingly, their premium over 
ordinary shares has already risen steeply, up from 5 per cent to 30 per cent in the two years after the vote, says 
Citi. EasyJet has similar powers. It is already close to the threshold, with 47 per cent of shares in the hands of 
Europeans. 
IAG/Brexit: flight plight
Most MPs want to avoid a disorderly Brexit. If they fail, shareholders must hope that IAG’s arrangements pass 
muster. Their confidence will not be helped by the lack of transparency. Expect more flight anxiety in the weeks to 
come. 
Lex recommends the FT’s Due Diligence newsletter, a curated briefing on the world of mergers and acquisitions. 
Sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: January 10, 2019
End of Document
Compensation rears up as bête noire for Ryanair
Compensation rears up as bête noire for Ryanair
 
FT.com
January 6, 2019 Sunday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 762 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
When Ryanair issued a profit warning last year, it blamed three things: the high oil price; staff strikes and the cost of 
compensating customers for delayed or cancelled flights under EU regulations.
Compensation re-emerged as Ryanair’s bête noire in December when the UK’s Civil Aviation Authority announced 
it was taking enforcement action against the airline for flight disruption over the summer.
Ryanair, whose passengers suffered delayed or cancelled flights because of eight days of strikes by pilots and 
cabin crew, said at the time that it was not liable for compensation under EU rules because of “extraordinary 
circumstances”.
But if the CAA manages to win its case, leaving Ryanair with a possible bill in excess of €8m, then it will be another 
blow for an airline that was on the back foot for much of last year as staff industrial action and air traffic control 
strikes disrupted its business.
It is not just Ryanair that has been affected by the EU rules that are — in the eyes of some airline bosses and 
industry observers — inconsistent and hard to interpret, despite the worthy aims of compensating passengers for 
disruptions.
This has prompted senior figures in aviation to call for reform of the regulations, known as EU261.
Compensation rears up as bête noire for Ryanair
Alexandre de Juniac, chief executive of airline body the International Air Transport Association, said in an October 
2018 speech: “EU261 is still a mess for airlines and passengers, and a bonanza for claims agencies and their 
dubious practices.” 
He said he was pleased the European Commission had issued some clarifying guidance, but “the European Court 
of Justice continues to issue intolerable interpretations”.
The controversy centres on a “grey zone” at the heart of the regulations, which sets out compensation of €250, 
€400 or €600 per passenger, depending on the length of the flight and the cause of the cancellation or delay.
The rules say airlines must pay for disruption except in “extraordinary circumstances” but without giving a clear 
definition of what these are.
The confusion has been exacerbated by conflicting decisions in the European courts.
The European Court of Justice ruled in April that compensation should be paid for disruption caused by wildcat 
strikes as they were “inherent” in an airline’s business and were not extraordinary.
But courts in Germany, Spain and Italy ruled that properly notified strikes are an “exceptional circumstance” and 
compensation does not apply — a decision Ryanair hopes will be followed in their dispute with the CAA.
Carriers Wizz Air, IAG, owner of British Airways, and easyJet have all been hit by costs due to the commission 
regulations. 
József Váradi, chief executive of Hungary’s low-cost Wizz, said jet fuel rises and compensation costs due to the 
regulations were “two major drivers of squeezing the industry” in the autumn. 
Wizz’s EU compensation bill was a large chunk of its earnings at about €30m a year, or 10 per cent of its 2018 pre-
tax profit of €286m.
IAG recorded a €65m provision in 2017 for “additional compensation fees and baggage claims” after a power failure 
at Heathrow forced British Airways to cancel 726 flights over three days and left at least 75,000 passengers 
stranded. 
IAG said: “Both consumers and airlines would benefit from greater clarity about what can be claimed under the 
EU261 regulation.”
In easyJet’s 2018 annual report it said it had made a provision for European regulations of £39m by the end of 
September.
In the case of Ryanair, it already has a bitter history with the regulations. In 2017, it paid €25m in compensation 
costs after it cancelled 2,000 flights in September and October because of rostering problems. 
It also noted in its most recent annual report that “passengers have a higher propensity to claim [under EU261] than 
in prior years”. Chief executive Michael O’Leary has previously called the regulation “ridiculous”.
Sara Drake, senior lecturer in law at Cardiff University and author of a European Parliament report on the matter, 
said the law was “poorly drafted” with broad provisions that each side could interpret to its own benefit.
Ms Drake’s report found that sanctions for trying to avoid compensation regulation claims were “not imposed in a 
systematic manner” and that wide variation in their enforcement across the EU, largely due to the grey zone, 
undermined the measure.
However, both Ms Drake and John Davies, a solicitor-advocate with law firm Slater Gordon, agreed that Ryanair 
was unlikely to be successful against the CAA. Ms Drake said she would be “very surprised” if Ryanair won, given 
judicial precedents.
Compensation rears up as bête noire for Ryanair
Load-Date: January 9, 2019
End of Document
Pioneering Southwest Airlines co-founder Herb Kelleher dies
Pioneering Southwest Airlines co-founder Herb Kelleher dies
 
FT.com
January 4, 2019 Friday 1:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 987 words
Byline: Josh Spero and Janina Conboye
Body
Herb Kelleher, co-founder of the pioneering US carrier Southwest Airlines, who has died aged 87, dragged the 
aviation industry from its high-priced, oligopolistic torpor into a world of low fares, insurgent competitors and bold, 
irreverent promotion.
It was only on June 18 1971, after four years of legal challenges by rivals, that Southwest’s first plane was able to 
take off. In doing so it launched a model that has spread throughout the world and brought aviation to the masses. 
When Southwest launched, 332m people worldwide took a flight; by 2017, that number had grown to 4bn, swollen 
in part thanks to $100 flights from Houston to New York and £15 trips from London to Bucharest — all ultimately 
enabled by Kelleher.
Michael O’Leary, now chief executive of low-cost carrier Ryanair, flew to Texas to meet the fun-loving, chain-
smoking and hard-drinking Kelleher in 1992, to learn how his budget airline worked and to see if there were any 
insights he could take back to Ireland. 
Mr O’Leary said: “There’s an entire generation of people under the age of 40 who don’t realise flying used to be 
expensive and the privilege of the very rich few. That’s entirely down to Herb Kelleher, his vision, his revolution and 
his spirit.”
Kelleher was widely cited in management books for how he sustained the Southwest culture. In Great by Choice, 
Jim Collins and Morten Hansen hailed him as “a fanatic exemplar of the culture”, adding: “He wasn’t weird to be 
Pioneering Southwest Airlines co-founder Herb Kelleher dies
weird; he was behaving with outlandish consistency to animate the culture, like an impactful actor who stays 
perfectly in character while on stage. He was also a complete monomaniac about building Southwest Airlines.”
Mr O’Leary said Kelleher had a “gee-shucks surface” but was “scarily bright” — and drank him under the table at 
dinner: “He spent 87 years defying the known conventions of the airline, tobacco and alcohol industries.”
Born on March 12 1931, Herbert David Kelleher was raised in Haddon Heights, New Jersey, and attended 
Wesleyan and New York universities, from the latter of which he received a law degree. He practised law on the 
East Coast, but moved to Texas to start his own firm, and it was with his client Rollin King that he devised Air 
Southwest (renamed Southwest Airlines by its launch), to provide low-cost flights within Texas.
In 1967, they drew up the plan on a cocktail napkin in a bar in San Antonio, the city that would become one corner 
of the profitable Texan triangle — Dallas and Houston were the two others — where  Southwest first flew.
But the US aviation industry was dominated by established players, not least Texas-based American Airlines, which 
did not want an upstart undercutting them. They tried to stamp out Southwest by lowering their prices, but could not 
match Kelleher’s unit costs, which he kept down by using only one type of aeroplane, having fewer staff on each 
and getting more flights out of a plane in a day, thanks to half an hour turnrounds. These practices have become 
standard in low-cost aviation.
In 1978, President Jimmy Carter gave Southwest the fillip it needed by deregulating the airline industry, removing 
the government’s control of fares, routes and market entrants. After that, Southwest’s expansion was swift. Even 
Warren Buffett, who had made his distaste for investing in the aviation industry clear, has come to own 10 per cent 
of Southwest through Berkshire Hathaway.
When Stevens Aviation challenged Southwest over its use of the “Just Plane Smart” advertising tagline in 1992, 
Kelleher suggested that he and Kurt Herwald, the head of his rival, should have an arm-wrestle to settle the matter. 
Even though Kelleher lost the contest, Stevens let Southwest keep the tagline.
Kelleher was executive chairman of Southwest from March 1978 to May 2008 and president and chief executive 
from September 1981 to June 2001. He remained an employee after stepping down as executive chairman, when 
he received “the kind of standing ovation usually reserved for rock stars” at the annual meeting, according to the 
New York Times.
In 2015, the FT chose Kelleher as one of its 50 leading business pioneers and wrote that Kelleher “continues at age 
84 to smoke and drink enthusiastically, and has embraced eye-catching stunts”. 
Kelleher sent a letter to the FT in response a short while later: “Sir, I was so viscerally and cerebrally honoured by 
my selection . . . that I smoked three packs of cigarettes and drank a quart of bourbon, thereby impairing both my 
ancient viscera and cerebrum. No lawsuit is imminent, however.”
Kelleher is survived by his wife, Joan, and three children.
Herb Kelleher in his own words
“I knew nothing about airlines, which I think made me eminently qualified to start one.”  CNN Business
“Wild Turkey whiskey and Philip Morris cigarettes are essential to the maintenance of human life!”  Fortune
“Power should be reserved for weightlifting and boats, and leadership really involves responsibility.”  Fortune
“My greatest moment in business was when the first Southwest airplane arrived after four years of litigation and I 
walked up to it and I kissed that baby on the lips and I cried.”  Chief Executive magazine
“We have a strategic plan — it’s called doing things.”  Chief Executive magazine
Pioneering Southwest Airlines co-founder Herb Kelleher dies
“[The airline industry] really is a horrible business!”  Stanford Business
“A motivated employee treats the customer well. The customer is happy so they keep coming back . . . It’s not one 
of the enduring green mysteries of all time, it is just the way it works.”  Twitter
“In our business, where capital assets travel at over 500 miles an hour, you don’t have a lot of time to fool around 
with aiming . . . So get out there, do it, and clean up the mistakes afterward.”  Strategy+Business
“The business of business is people.”  YouTube
“It is my practice to try to understand how valuable something is by trying to imagine myself without it.”  Southwest 
Airlines
Additional reporting by Andrew Hill
Load-Date: January 7, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair secures UK licence in preparation for no-deal Brexit
Ryanair secures UK licence in preparation for no-deal Brexit
 
FT.com
January 3, 2019 Thursday 5:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 457 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair has secured a UK operating licence, meaning the London listed and Dublin-based airline 
can continue domestic flights in the country and flights from Britain to outside the EU in the event of a no-deal 
Brexit.
Juliusz Komorek, the airline’s chief legal and regulatory officer, warned that risks of a no-deal Brexit were rising and 
called for the UK and EU to agree a transition deal to avoid disruption to holidays in the summer. 
The airline applied for the air operating certificate in late 2017. Its UK domestic routes only accounted for 1 per cent 
of capacity in 2018, according to its annual report, but it also flies from the UK to non-EU destinations including 
Morocco and Norway.
Hungary’s Wizz Air obtained a UK operating licence in May 2018 for the same reason, while easyJet, a UK-based 
company, has been granted an Austrian operating licence to ensure European flights in the region can continue.
Ryanair is facing ownership problems around Brexit too. 
Under existing rules, airlines must prove they are 50 per cent EU owned and controlled to qualify for operating 
licences. Ryanair has tried to respond to the problem by preparing plans to take away voting rights from its non-EU 
shareholders to ensure it reaches the threshold.
In November, Ryanair stirred up anger among some of its pilots as it started to recruit for a UK subsidiary, 
established to protect the company against a no-deal Brexit. 
Ryanair secures UK licence in preparation for no-deal Brexit
Pilots said the salaries offered at the subsidiary undermined Ryanair’s claims about how much they earn — which 
the airline has insisted would not be lower than those of pilots flying for the parent group and can be up to €200,000 
(£178,000).
The news about its UK licence came as Ryanair faced three days of strikes this month from its Spanish cabin crew. 
Unions SITCPLA and USO have scheduled industrial action on January 8, 10 and 13 after failing to reach an 
agreement with Ryanair on employing its members under local law, rather than Irish, as the airline does at the 
moment. 
The unions said Ryanair’s behaviour was “absurd and childish”.
Ryanair did not respond to a request for comment on the Spanish strikes.
The carrier has been engaged in negotiations with its unions since agreeing to recognise them in late 2017 after a 
rostering failure and staff shortage led to thousands of cancellations. 
It faced several days of strikes last summer, causing the cancellation of thousands of flights.
It has been making gradual progress in resolving its industrial relations problems. 
At the end of November, it signed a framework agreement with its German pilots ahead of a collective labour 
agreement early next year, and it has reached collective labour agreements with cabin crews in Germany, Belgium 
and Italy.
Load-Date: January 10, 2019
End of Document
Help wanted: a holiday roster that everyone can live with
Help wanted: a holiday roster that everyone can live with
 
FT.com
December 23, 2018 Sunday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 680 words
Byline: Pilita Clark
Body
It has been hard to concentrate on Christmas this year.
The first work bash I went to came just as Theresa May decided to cancel a big parliamentary vote on her Brexit 
plan. The second was held the same night her party’s MPs voted on whether to ditch her as  their leader. 
The first time things began to feel Christmassy was at a Fleet Street women’s party, where I heard a senior editor 
make an anguished confession about one of the great festive season traditions: the holiday leave roster. 
For the first time in years, she was taking off every day from Christmas to New Year, leaving a team of underlings 
behind to slog through without her. She had never done this before. She felt dreadful. But trying to  arrange 
holidays with half a family in another continent had left her with no other choice.
Journalists, like nurses and bus drivers, work through all types of holidays, which makes us unusually practised 
roster wranglers.
Yet as I listened to that editor talk, I had a disturbing thought. I have heard a lot of managers, inside and out of 
newspapers, fret about the duty they feel to share the pain of holiday working with their teams and every one of 
them has been a woman — including me in a former life. Maybe men feel the same guilty pangs about this stuff but 
don’t bother carrying on about it. Or is this yet another tedious example of the need women feel to prove 
themselves in the office?
Help wanted: a holiday roster that everyone can live with
Happily, I do not think it is. When I started asking around I soon uncovered a rich list of roster crimes committed by 
women and men alike. 
The worst tale came from a man who once had a female boss in London who religiously booked up all the best 
holidays for herself, then stuffed the roster with minions to make sure she could relax uninterrupted. 
One year, her team included a newly married and carless junior who was supposed to spend Christmas Day with 
his new bride’s family hundreds of miles away. 
She insisted he work on Christmas Eve, even though there were no trains the following day. He ended up spending 
Christmas Day alone in his flat in London.
No one had been through anything like last year’s mess at Ryanair, which suddenly announced it was cancelling 
hundreds of flights because of problems with its pilots’ rosters. 
Yet the stories I heard made me wonder why there is not more management research into holiday scheduling. It is 
hard to think of anything that exposes the divide between the conscientious and the cunning so deftly. 
Everyone I spoke to had a painful memory of being duped by craftier colleagues. There were the people who kept a 
lookout for new rosters like ravening hawks and pounced ahead of everyone else to book the best times off.
There were the workers with families in distant countries who insisted on taking every Christmas off but refused to 
make up for it by working more in Easter or summer. 
There were the bosses who swiped the best days for themselves or left it so late to finalise plans that their fuming 
teams had trouble booking holidays, an offence I think I committed myself when last left in charge of a roster. On 
and on it went, yet the misery was not relentless. A few people reported working for bosses who diligently started 
planning team leave months ahead. The best managers first asked for willing volunteers to try to sort out a more 
agreeable division of spoils.
Some used apps such as Google Docs that keep a pleasingly transparent record of who has worked when 
throughout the year. One person told of a company where bosses planned leave two Christmases ahead, so 
anyone missing out in one year could be assured of victory the next. I cannot see this working at an office where 
staff turnover is high, but I admire the general sentiment.
There are doubtless many superior ploys and I would be glad to hear of them. Meanwhile, anyone who has come 
up with a truly fail-safe way of dealing with roster ruin is wasted. They should go immediately to Westminster. If they 
can figure out how to solve a plight as perennially baffling as the roster, fixing the farce of Brexit should be a 
pushover.
Twitter:  @pilitaclark
Load-Date: December 26, 2018
End of Document
Leave or Remain? The Brexit holiday booking dilemma
Leave or Remain? The Brexit holiday booking dilemma
 
FT.com
December 21, 2018 Friday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 833 words
Byline: Claer Barrett 
Body
It’s one of the greatest ironies of Brexit — I’ve never needed a holiday more, yet I’m too scared to book one.
Parliament has descended into full-on  panto mode, and the odds of a chaotic “no-deal Brexit” are rising by the day. 
My desire to escape this madness and head to a remote foreign beach with no mobile signal where I can bury my 
head in the sand is increasing at roughly the same rate. But there’s a dilemma. 
January is traditionally the time of year when thoughts turn to booking a holiday. But if your planned break is after 
March 29 next year — not forgetting that Easter Sunday falls very late on April 21 — then could a botched Brexit 
scupper any chances of relaxation? 
Politicians can try all they might to reassure us that foreign travel will carry on as normal in the event of “no deal” 
but, in reality, they have no idea. Wherever you go, if it involves an airport I think we can safely predict travel chaos.
Forgive me for doubting the resilience of UK airports but, as we saw this week, sightings of  rogue drones were 
enough to close Gatwick airport for a whole day.
I was caught up in a Ryanair strike-related incident last summer. Our flight home was cancelled at short notice, and 
I spent a lot of time and money rebooking flights and finding last-minute hotel rooms. When things go wrong at 
airports, it is horribly stressful — doubly so if you are travelling with children — and there is never anyone around to 
help. I have since managed to reclaim nearly all of the money back, but I do not wish to repeat the experience. 
Leave or Remain? The Brexit holiday booking dilemma
Simon Calder — less a travel journalist and more of a national institution — has written  this week that he fears 
there will be mass cancellations of European flights in the event of a no-deal Brexit because             new legislation 
dictates that the number of departures would be capped at 2018 levels. 
The authorities say this is worrying over nothing, and that we should “book with confidence”. If flights are cancelled, 
they say, the cost should be automatically refunded. But as I found this summer, prices shoot up in the resultant 
scramble to re-book. 
Mr Calder  also notes that many travel providers are adding “Brexit clauses” to their terms and conditions, 
specifying they will not be liable for consequential losses in the event of cancellations. So if you had booked your 
flight, accommodation and car hire separately — which many of us do in this digital age — even if you can’t get 
there to enjoy it you will still have to pay for it all, and you won’t be able to claim compensation.
So now is not the time  to stint on travel insurance. Unfortunately, the loss of the European Health Insurance Card 
is likely to  push up premiums substantially for those of us with pre-existing medical conditions. 
My parents — whom I lovingly refer to as the  Saganauts— have decided to book their next holiday with a package 
tour operator. That way, if anything goes wrong the travel company will have to 
put it right. As they are both retired, they can also be more flexible with travel 
dates if their holiday needs to be rearranged. 
If you’re a wage slave like me, the chances are your options are more limited. I am aiming for the “Easter streak” 
where a nine-day holiday will generate 18 days away from the office (book from Good Friday on April 19 and return 
after the bank holiday on May 6). 
I can think of a dozen places in Italy that we’d love to tick off, but assuming we survive queueing for days to leave 
no-deal Brexit Britain, our reward could be crippling currency exchange rates if sterling sinks further.
All of this builds the case for British staycations — certainly for the first half of the year until things calm down. Now 
that our son has settled in the south-west, we have long weekend breaks planned for Exmouth and Dartmouth, 
making use of our “Two Together” railcard and cheap advance fares. Renting a whole house on Airbnb means we 
can take the rest of our brood and their significant others.
I have also pencilled in a few days in Rye, on the Sussex coast, as I intend to spend a fortune in Glass Etc, the 
shop owned by Andy McConnell, my favourite expert from the BBC’s Antiques Roadshow. And we’ve decided this 
could be the year to do the Outer Hebrides (but after Easter, when the weather has warmed up a bit). 
Nevertheless, my choices have been mocked by office colleagues who reckon going on holiday in the UK is a rip 
off. I have to agree with them, it is expensive. And we are unlikely to have a repeat of this year’s long hot summer. 
Ahead of the Christmas holidays, I have one final money-saving holiday thought. Scour your address book for 
friends and relatives you haven’t seen for ages who live in interesting parts of the UK. Send them a Christmas card 
(quick!) promising to come and stay in 2019 — but just make sure they share your views on Brexit. 
Claer Barrett is the editor of FT Money, and presents a daily financial news bulletin on Eddie Mair’s LBC drive-time 
show at 5.30pm: ; Twitter  @Claerb; Instagram             @Claerb
Load-Date: December 27, 2018
End of Document
Gatwick to restart limited flights following drone disruptions
Gatwick to restart limited flights following drone disruptions
 
FT.com
December 21, 2018 Friday 5:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 365 words
Byline: Alice Woodhouse in Hong Kong
Body
London’s Gatwick airport said it would allow a limited number of flights on Friday morning taking disruptions at the 
travel hub into their third day after drones being flown near the airfield on Wednesday night forced it to close.
Gatwick said on Friday morning that it is “currently working with airlines and air traffic controllers to introduce a 
limited number of flights over the coming hours”.
The military was called in on Thursday to assist police efforts to find those operating the drones, after hundreds of 
flights were cancelled disrupting travel plans for more than 100,000 people during the busy Christmas period.
Detective chief superintendent Jason Tingley from Sussex police special crime command said on Thursday that the 
police force was “deploying a number of tactical options to detect and counter these drone activities and bring this 
to a safe conclusion”. He added that extra officers had been brought in.
The police said separately that the drones involved were believed to be of “industrial specification”.
New legislation was introduced in July banning drones from being flown above 400ft and within 1km of airports. The 
UK Civil Aviation Authority said possible penalties for flying drones close to airports include imprisonment.
Drones  pose a severe and potentially costly threat to aircraft. Government tests found a 400g device could smash 
a helicopter’s windscreen while a 2kg drone could inflict “critical” damage to the windscreen of a passenger jet. A 
popular model of hobby drones weighs 1.2kg.
Gatwick to restart limited flights following drone disruptions
Airlines including British Airways and EasyJet directed passengers to check the status of their flight on Friday 
morning
Ryanair said flights scheduled to and from Gatwick on Friday would instead operate from London Stansted.
The airport stopped flights after 9pm on Wednesday after two drones were seen flying over the perimeter fence.
More than 50 drone sightings were reported to police over Wednesday and Thursday. By late Thursday police were 
appealing to the public for information the possible identity and location of the drone operator. 
Gatwick chief operating officer Chris Woodroofe had told the BBC that the airport had considered shooting down 
the drones. 
Load-Date: December 21, 2018
End of Document
Competition regulators lobby to halt Siemens-Alstom merger
Competition regulators lobby to halt Siemens-Alstom merger
 
FT.com
December 20, 2018 Thursday 1:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 635 words
Byline: Barney Thompson in London and Rochelle Toplensky in Brussels
Body
The UK’s competition watchdog has joined forces with a number of other European regulators in an effort to stop 
the Siemens-Alstom merger unless the two companies make much bigger concessions.
The Competition and Markets Authority and national regulators from Spain, the Netherlands and Belgium have 
written to Margrethe Vestager, the EU’s competition commissioner, expressing concerns that “the overall loss of 
competition brought about by the merger would be both widespread and very significant”.
The remedies proposed by the two businesses “fall far short of what would be required to address all concerns to 
the required standard”, the signatories add.
Germany’s Siemens and France’s Alstom presented their plans for a merger in September last year, saying they 
wanted to create a European rail champion capable of competing with China’s state-backed operator, CRRC. The 
French and German governments support the deal.
Ms Vestager has been willing to stand up to political pressure. Last year she insisted on substantial remedies in 
Lufthansa’s purchase of Air Berlin’s Niki airline despite strong backing from Berlin. Ryanair eventually bought most 
of Niki and its Vienna hub airport has since become a low-cost battleground.
This week ministers from 18 EU states issued a statement in support of reforms to competition law “to better take 
into account international markets and competition in merger analysis” and fend off the challenge from “other major 
economic blocs, which are developing . . . proactive industrial strategies”.
Competition regulators lobby to halt Siemens-Alstom merger
However, the letter from the antitrust bodies illustrates the growing battle in Europe over the merger. It is almost 
unprecedented for national competition regulators to write a joint letter to the European Commission over a big 
merger, while the CMA has only done so once before, over the proposed O2/Three tie-up, which was ultimately 
blocked by Ms Vestager.
The regulators’ concerns focused on very high-speed rolling stock — the type of train used on the Eurostar and 
Thalys networks, and which could be used on the UK’s High Speed 2 project. Signalling systems — which include 
on-board technology, trackside equipment and routing software — are also a significant issue. 
Siemens and Alstom have offered to sell off some of their older high-speed train and signalling technology in an 
effort to push through the merger. That proposal has left rivals, some national regulators and other interested 
parties unimpressed.
Because Siemens and Alstom are so dominant in this area, the CMA and other signatories say, proposals offered 
by the companies to address competition concerns “require a very substantial remedy, typically the full divestment 
of one or other of the merging parties’ overlapping businesses to a suitable buyer”.
But the proposed divestments of high-speed technology — either a fixed-term European licence for Siemens’ 
Velaro 3G system, or a portion of Alstom’s Pendolino business in Europe — would still leave the combined 
business “facing insufficient competition in ongoing and future tenders”, the regulators write. Other divestment 
offers on signalling technology “also seem to suffer from serious defects”.
Andrew Haines, chief executive of Network Rail, called the proposed merger “anti-competitive” and “likely to lead to 
significantly increased costs in the vital rail signalling market”. The proposed concessions fell well short of Brussels’ 
usual requirement for a comprehensive and effective package of measures to support competition, he said, adding: 
“The merger, as currently proposed, should not go ahead.”
Tom Cole, head of competition at the UK regulator Office of Rail and Road, said the remedy proposed “falls way 
short of what is necessary in both signalling and high-speed rail” and that the ORR continued to believe the deal 
should be blocked.
Load-Date: December 21, 2018
End of Document
Air Berlin administrator sues Etihad for up to €2bn
Air Berlin administrator sues Etihad for up to €2bn
 
FT.com
December 14, 2018 Friday 1:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 421 words
Byline: Tobias Buck in Berlin
Body
 Etihad Airways is being sued for up to €2bn over its role in the bankruptcy of German carrier Air Berlin, a court in 
the German capital said on Friday. 
The Abu Dhabi-based airline was the main shareholder in Air Berlin, which declared insolvency in August 2017.  Air 
Berlin ran out of funds despite receiving a “comfort letter” from Etihad just four months earlier declaring that the Abu 
Dhabi flag carrier would provide financial backing to the troubled German airline over the next 18 months. 
Etihad’s announcement that it would no longer stand by that commitment was the trigger for Air Berlin’s collapse, 
which prompted severe political recriminations and significant upheaval in Germany’s aviation market 
Air Berlin had racked up losses of about €2bn in the six years leading up to its insolvency. The carrier, which 
struggled to compete with low-cost rivals such as Ryanair, had €1.2bn in net debt at the time. 
In an attempt to recoup losses suffered by more than 1m claimants, Air Berlin’s insolvency administrator is now 
taking legal aim at Etihad. According to a statement from the Berlin district court on Friday, the administrator “is of 
the opinion that [Etihad] gave a binding commitment. Because it violated that commitment, it should settle all the 
justified claims of creditors.” 
The administrator believes that at least three separate claims worth €500m in total are justified. But given the large 
number of additional claimants, the court has provisionally estimated the overall value of the claims to be “up to 
€2bn”. 
Air Berlin administrator sues Etihad for up to €2bn
Etihad has until the end of January to respond to the claims. The final decision over whether or not the claims are 
justified will be taken by the Berlin court.
The collapse of Air Berlin was the largest aviation bankruptcy in German corporate history. It came at the height of 
the summer holiday season, sparking fears that hundreds of thousands of tourists could be left stranded. To avert 
that scenario, the German government stepped in with a €150m bridge loan to keep the airline flying and win more 
time to find a buyer for the company’s assets. 
The principal beneficiary of the dismantling of Air Berlin was German flag carrier  Lufthansa, which managed to 
cement its position as the largest airline by far in Europe’s biggest economy. 
Lufthansa ended up acquiring more than half its rival’s assets, including Austria’s Niki, a holiday airline, for €210m. 
EasyJet bought another portion of Air Berlin’s operations, while parts of the carrier’s logistics operations found a 
local buyer. 
 
Load-Date: December 17, 2018
End of Document
Best of Lex: your weekly round-up
Best of Lex: your weekly round-up
 
FT.com
December 7, 2018 Friday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 859 words
Byline: Vanessa Houlder
Body
Dear readers,
The Lex column often takes to its soapbox. It likes to rail about cryptocurrencies, share buybacks and other weighty 
matters. This week it took a stand on lunch.
Mulling over the closure of Wall Street for former President HW Bush’s funeral, the Lex column argued a day of 
reflection was timely. In fact, more markets could use a regular break. A good starting point would be to close for 
lunch, as happens in Asia. Staring at a screen encourages excessive trading. Investors often overreact to data. 
Better take a break, absorb the news and then take action.
Admittedly, digesting this week’s news needed more than a lunch break. On Monday, the shares of carmakers and 
other trade-sensitive sectors jumped in relief on news that tariffs would not rise in January. “Relations with China 
have taken a BIG leap forward!” tweeted President Trump. Lex was unconvinced. The fog of trade war was too 
thick to be dispelled by a temporary truce between the US and China, it said. Nor would the on/off bromance 
between the US and Chinese leaders soothe nervy investors. The mood darkened on Tuesday when President 
Trump called himself “a Tariff Man” and warned more levies could be imposed on China. The Dow Jones Industrial 
Average fell more than 3 per cent in a few hours. 
Nerves frazzled even more on Thursday. Meng Wanzhou, chief financial officer of Huawei, was arrested in Canada 
on US sanctions-busting charges involving Iran. As well as rattling financial markets, the move intensified the 
pressure on the Chinese technology group. Lex noted that the US had recently warned about the security risks of 
using Huawei equipment. If more countries follow the US’s lead, Huawei’s Nordic rivals Ericsson and Nokia could 
benefit. 
Best of Lex: your weekly round-up
Wild gyrations have become commonplace in the oil market, too. After Brent crude prices tumbled 28 per cent in 
the past month, Canada’s oil-rich province of Alberta turned off the spigot. Expect more price volatility, said Lex. A 
really big reduction in Opec quotas looks unlikely, assuming Saudi Arabia needs US support. But North American 
producers will continue to react quickly. 
This week was not all about geopolitics. Some companies found themselves in the spotlight for homegrown 
reasons. Shares in drugmaker GSK fell heavily this week after a pricey acquisition of US biotech company Tesaro. 
Lex noted that GSK chief executive Emma Walmsley had previously warned that Big Pharma had a weakness for 
“hobbyland” — wandering into pricey and unproductive areas of drug development. Despite her determination to 
avoid hobbyland’s siren song, she appeared to have succumbed to it in buying Tesaro.
A lack of restraint was also a problem at Ryanair, Lex said. It underpinned the low-cost Irish airline’s disputes with 
unions and regulators, most recently over its refusal to compensate passengers for flight disruption. Ryanair 
aspires to be a friendlier airline. But without a governance shake-up, that initiative will remain permanently 
grounded, it said.
More restraint would also have helped at fashion brand Ted Baker. Its shares tumbled after the announcement 
that an external investigator will look into claims of inappropriate behaviour by boss Ray Kelvin. The #MeToo 
movement has implications for investors, said Lex. Whatever the outcome of this case, there are plenty of examples 
where bosses have been toppled for behaviour that might once have been brushed under the carpet. Clued-up 
hedge funds might see an opportunity to short the shares of those companies. 
It was not all gloom. Lex was enthusiastic about Burger King’s ambitions in Nigeria. Competition is tough but its 
190m people, who have been called the Americans of Africa, present a “whoppertunity”. When it comes to burgers, 
Lex was even more enthusiastic about the $100m initial public offering of LA-based meatless burger maker Beyond 
Meat. Growing numbers of people are abstaining from eating animals. But the company’s plant-based proteins are 
tasty enough to grab a share of the $1.4tn global meat market. Back on the theme of lunch: something appetising is 
cooking for those keen on healthy, sustainable eating.
Enjoy your weekend, 
Vanessa Houlder
Lex writer
Best of Lex articles
•
Market hours: illiquid lunchStaring at a screen encourages excessive trading. Better to shut down 
completely
•
China/US trade war: floreat luxIf the truce lasts, luxury sector shares may be the first to rise out of the 
trenches
•
Trade wars: the shipping newsIt will take more than promises from Trump and Xi to perk up investors
•
Huawei/Ericsson: signal failureAs doors close to Chinese telecoms group, others open for its rivals
•
Opec and oil supply: pipe dreamsAssuming Saudi Arabia still needs US support, a big reduction in quotas 
looks unlikely
•
Ryanair: winging itIrish airline’s vulnerabilities exposed by toughness towards staff and customer
•
Ted Baker: too close for comfortYou don’t have to be a super sleuth to take into account conduct risk
•
Burger King/Nigeria: whoppertunityFast food company has its eye on Africa as it looks outside the US for 
growth
•
Vegan food groups: lean, green, growth machinesUS meatless burger maker Beyond Meat is cooking 
something appetising
Best of Lex: your weekly round-up
Load-Date: December 7, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair: winging it
Ryanair: winging it
 
FT.com
December 5, 2018 Wednesday 4:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 400 words
Body
Ryanair’s latest controversy brings the phrase “situation normal, all fouled up” to mind. The low-cost Irish airline 
says it owes passengers no compensation for the summer’s strike-related flight disruption because this reflected 
“extraordinary circumstances”. Cue hollow laughs from customers who regard a lousy service from Ryanair as 
entirely predictable. Cue, also, enforcement action from the UK’s Civil Aviation Authority.
Ryanair’s vulnerabilities have been mercilessly exposed by the dispute. The bosses of Europe’s legacy flag carriers 
must be enjoying every minute. The company’s exemplary margins have depended on toughness towards staff and 
customers. Damaging friction with both groups have shown how weak corporate governance standards are. 
Directors allowed a combative chief executive to push both relationships too far.
Higher fuel costs have not helped, contributing to a 9 per cent drop in half year pre-tax profits to €1.3bn. Average 
fares have fallen 3 per cent to under €46. Margins have been squeezed 4 percentage points to 25 per cent. Shares 
have fallen more than those of UK rival easyJet over the last year.
Labour relations are, in theory, improving. The company has agreed a deal with German pilots and is in 
negotiations with others. 
The difficulty is that the jokey obstreperousness of Michael O’Leary lacks restraint. Disputes with unions and 
regulators will recur too.
David Bonderman has been chairman for an incredible 22 years, weathering a censure vote this autumn. The whole 
board lacks independence and needs refreshing. A clear succession plan is needed for Mr O’Leary, an admirable 
entrepreneur who has been CEO since 1994.
Ryanair: winging it
The fight over compensation only adds to investor frustration. The decision of the airline to quit the UK’ s aviation 
dispute resolution body is peevish and ill-judged.
It is unclear how much money is at stake. Assuming 60,000 passengers fill out the paperwork and make a claim for 
the minimum €250, the airline might have to pay out €15m. Analysts who regard that as a modest cost of business 
are deluding themselves. It is a token of a bigger problem. Ryanair has aspired to be a friendlier airline. Without a 
governance shake-up, that initiative will remain permanently grounded.
This article was amended following publication to make clear that Ryanair’s shares had fallen more than Easyjet’s 
over the last year, rather than the year to date.
Load-Date: December 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair hit by enforcement action over rejected payouts
Ryanair hit by enforcement action over rejected payouts
 
FT.com
December 5, 2018 Wednesday 1:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 595 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick and Josh Spero in London
Body
The UK Civil Aviation Authority has launched an enforcement action against Ryanair after the low-cost airline 
refused to compensate thousands of British customers for flight disruption over the summer.
Ryanair, whose passengers suffered delayed or cancelled flights because of eight days of strikes by pilots and 
cabin crew, said at the time that these were “extraordinary circumstances”, which meant compensation was not 
payable.
But on Wednesday, the CAA said that passengers affected were entitled to payouts under the European 
Commission’s regulation 261. People whose compensation claims were rejected had been able to escalate their 
complaints to AviationADR, a dispute resolution body approved by the CAA and used by many major airlines. 
However, Ryanair has now cancelled its agreement with AviationADR, the CAA said.
The CAA added that passengers who believed they had valid compensation claims for the summer disruption would 
now have to “await the outcome of the Civil Aviation Authority’s enforcement action” before finding out if they will 
get any money back.
The CAA can ask for undertakings from businesses to make them to comply with the law. It can go to court for an 
enforcement order if the businesses does not provide or breaches undertakings.
Ryanair said: “Courts in Germany, Spain and Italy have already ruled that strikes are an ‘exceptional circumstance’ 
and EU261 compensation does not apply. We expect the UK CAA and courts will follow this precedent.”
Ryanair hit by enforcement action over rejected payouts
However, the European Court of Justice ruled in April that wildcat strikes — rather than those agreed by a trade 
union — by staff of the TUIfly airline were subject to EU261 rules since conflicts with staff were “inherent” in an 
airline’s business and were not extraordinary.
“That rather takes you to the conclusion that the ECJ is going to be relatively unsympathetic to strikes by airline 
employees,” said Simon Phippard of law firm Bird & Bird.
In 2017, Ryanair paid €25m in EU261 costs after it cancelled 2,000 flights in September and October because of 
rostering problems. The strikes this summer involved at least 650 cancellations, suggesting a bill of around €8m if 
the CAA is successful in its enforcement. Ryanair noted in its most recent annual report that “passengers have a 
higher propensity to claim [under EU261] than in prior years”.
The carrier has been engaged in negotiations with its unions since agreeing to recognise them in late 2017 after a 
rostering failure and staff shortage led to thousands of cancellations.
It has been making gradual progress in resolving its industrial relations problems which led to the summer strikes. 
At the end of November, it signed a framework agreement with its German pilots ahead of a collective labour 
agreement early next year, and it has reached collective labour agreements with cabin crew in Germany, Belgium 
and Italy.
The EU261 regulation sets out compensation of €250, €400 or €600 per passenger, depending on the length of the 
flight and the cause of the cancellation or delay. Passengers can also claim for meals, drinks, telephone calls and 
— if the delay is overnight — hotel accommodation.
The European Parliament recently found that sanctions for trying to avoid EU261 claims were “not imposed in a 
systematic manner” and that wide variation in their enforcement across the EU undermined the measure. It also 
found that the “grey zone” of “extraordinary circumstances” gave rise to most disputes.
The parliament suggested that enforcement by national bodies could ultimately extend to revoking or suspending 
an airline’s licence.
Load-Date: December 6, 2018
End of Document
Carrier Ryanair strikes labour pact with German pilots union
Carrier Ryanair strikes labour pact with German pilots union
 
FT.com
December 4, 2018 Tuesday 11:08 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 203 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Ryanair and its German pilots’ union have reached a framework agreement for a labour deal - including a doubling 
of base pay for some pilots - to end a yearlong spell of industrial unrest.
The pilots have won one of their key demands, which was to be employed under German rather than Irish law, thus 
securing local labour protections and tax arrangements. Captains’ base pay will grow by a third and co-pilots’ will 
double, while the variable pay component will diminish.
The two sides will sign four collective labour agreements by the end of March 2019 and the pilots have agreed not 
to take strike action before then.
Martin Locher, president of Vereinigung Cockpit, the pilots’ union, said: “By agreeing to these cornerstones a re-
entry into constructive negotiations has been enabled, after their failure last summer.”
Ryanair has been engaged in negotiations with its unions since agreeing to recognise them in late 2017 after a 
rostering failure and staff shortage led to thousands of cancellations.
But talks have progressed fitfully, and there was a summer of strikes including five days by Irish pilots and two days 
of co-ordinated pan-European action by cabin crew. Germany pilots went on strike for a day in August.
Load-Date: December 4, 2018
Carrier Ryanair strikes labour pact with German pilots union
End of Document
Southend airport owner Stobart cuts dividend
Southend airport owner Stobart cuts dividend
 
FT.com
December 3, 2018 Monday 5:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 440 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Shares in Stobart Group, the mini-conglomerate weighing a bid for UK regional airline Flybe, fell about 10 per cent 
after the company cut its fourth-quarter dividend.
The next quarter’s dividend will be 1.5p compared with 4.5p for the past three months. The total payout in the 2018 
financial year will be 15p, down from 16.5p the previous year, which one analyst called “unaffordable”.
The company, whose assets include Southend airport and a biomass business, said it had paid £105m in dividends 
since March 2017 through the disposal of “non-strategic assets”. It concluded it was “prudent financial discipline” to 
use future disposals to invest in opportunities to generate cash.
Stobart needs to ensure it has sufficient resources to pay for Flybe, which has a market cap of £43m and cutting the 
dividend would help. It made a failed bid for Flybe earlier this year.
Stobart declined to comment on its plans for Flybe, but said it needed to invest in Southend airport as Ryanair was 
launching flights from there next summer and that it was also considering opportunities in the energy sector.
Robin Byde, analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said Flybe was “potentially a reasonably good fit” for Stobart, if the airline 
could increase its passenger numbers, but that there might be other projects it could better spend its money on.
Mr Byde added that Stobart’s dividend had been “unaffordable” and he would be surprised if Stobart’s main 
investors had sold off because of the cut.
Southend airport owner Stobart cuts dividend
Stobart’s pre-tax loss increased by almost half to £17.5m in the six months to the end of August, capping a difficult 
period featuring a boardroom battle and a shareholder revolt against the chairman.
Stobart has operated a franchise agreement with Flybe at Southend airport and spent £18m developing and 
promoting it — but announced in October that it was closing the deal after less than two years. It said the cause 
was Flybe rivals easyJet and Ryanair expanding their presence at the airport.
Stobart has been arguing over the details of the Flybe bid in court as it sued its former chief executive for allegedly 
breaching his fiduciary duties as he tried to oust the company’s chairman.
Stobart alleged that Andrew Tinkler wanted to derive personal financial benefit from the Flybe and related 
transactions; Mr Tinkler said Stobart did not have the cash to pay for the takeover. Mr Tinkler denied all Stobart’s 
claims. Stobart said the transaction had not proceeded because Flybe’s board had valued the company at more 
than it wanted to pay.
The company’s case finished last week, with judgment not expected this year.
Its shares were down 21p to 176p on Monday afternoon.
Load-Date: December 4, 2018
End of Document
Brexit Britain close to agreeing open skies deal with US
Brexit Britain close to agreeing open skies deal with US
 
FT.com
November 27, 2018 Tuesday 6:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 780 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London, Alex Barker in Brussels and Kiran Stacey in Washington
Body
The US and UK are close to finalising an open skies aviation agreement, which falls short of current EU 
arrangements but will protect British carriers from ownership problems after  Brexit.
Negotiators for the two sides are meeting on Wednesday in Washington for what they expect to be the final round 
of talks on the wide-ranging air services agreement, according to two people briefed on the talks.
If confirmed, the deal would provide continuity for UK and US-based carriers when Britain leaves the EU-US open 
skies treaty after Brexit, which underpins the busy transatlantic flight corridor.
But the draft terms are inferior to the rights the UK enjoys as an EU member, with tighter restrictions on ownership, 
tougher terms for new entrants and no special access to the Fly America programme, which allocates tickets for US 
government employees. 
UK transport secretary Chris Grayling could fly to the US as soon as this weekend if agreement is reached and 
domestic politics allow. 
Sean Kennedy, vice-president of government affairs at Airlines for America, which represents some of America’s 
biggest airlines, said “we are cautiously optimistic that a deal is within reach.
“We wanted to make sure that aviation was given the importance is deserves and that travellers and shippers would 
have certainty and confidence that Brexit should not affect their plans to travel to the UK or to the EU via the UK.”
Brexit Britain close to agreeing open skies deal with US
The EU-US open skies agreement was the most liberal ever agreed by Washington. By contrast, the draft UK text 
closely follows the US’s template for agreements with individual countries, including a clause on ownership that 
poses problems for UK-based carriers such as British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Norwegian. 
This provision says airlines must have “substantial ownership and effective control” by UK or US nationals, an 
eligibility condition that would have ruled out British carriers because of their substantial foreign shareholdings. 
To address this issue British negotiators secured an annex “grandfathering” flying rights for UK airlines covered by 
the existing EU-US deal, avoiding immediate questions of ownership. But if the carriers change their ownership or 
control in future, their eligibility would depend on a review by US authorities — a restriction London had opposed in 
talks. 
The rules would also create an obstacle to the development of the UK airline market, since they create barriers to 
new entrants offering UK-US transatlantic flights if they are not majority owned by British shareholders. This could 
prevent airlines such as Ryanair and easyJet from launching these services.
The agreement will enter into force at some point after the UK leaves the EU on March 29, but it could be the end of 
the transition period, which will run to as late as December 2022.
IAG, which owns BA, said: “We have every confidence that the US and UK will sign a deal that it is in everyone’s 
interests. All parties have a shared interest in ensuring that existing rights continue under new bilateral 
arrangements. This allows airlines on both sides of the Atlantic to operate existing services and seek to develop 
new ones.”
John Byerly, the head US aviation negotiator from 2001 to 2010, said the agreement was “not perfect” but added: 
“What matters most is that the agreement, if finalised on November 28, will provide stability and planning certainty 
to US and UK airlines amid the severe turbulence of Brexit. The focus will now shift to securing equivalent certainty 
in the post-Brexit EU-UK market.” Mr Byerly helped to negotiate the original US-EU open skies agreement.
The agreement would solve one problem for IAG, however it may still face ownership difficulties in Europe 
depending on the shape of a post-Brexit EU-UK deal.
The European Commission has warned IAG that, after Brexit, the airline will fall short of the requirement that airline 
groups are 50 per cent EU owned and controlled to qualify for operating licences. The package of Brexit 
agreements, agreed between the EU and UK and endorsed on Sunday, includes no reference to reforms of 
ownership rules. 
To date IAG has done little more than mention that it has “contingency plans” for Brexit, the response on the issue 
from Antonio Vázquez Romero, IAG chairman. However, its articles of association allow it to strip non-EU 
shareholders of the right to attend, vote and speak at general meetings and to require them to sell the shares to an 
EU national within a number of days.
Sir Richard Branson owns 51 per cent of Virgin, making it majority UK-owned, but he is in the process of selling 31 
per cent to Air France-KLM. US airline Delta owns the remaining stake.
Additional reporting by Jim Pickard
Load-Date: November 30, 2018
End of Document
Flybondi’s Julian Cook: launching against protectionism
Flybondi’s Julian Cook: launching against protectionism
 
FT.com
November 25, 2018 Sunday 3:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1114 words
Byline: Benedict Mander in Buenos Aires
Body
Taking on one of the world’s most aggressively protectionist business environments is not for the faint of heart. So 
far, airline industry veteran Julian Cook — who aspires to do in Argentina what Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary achieved 
in Europe — has managed to stand his ground.
As chief executive and co-founder of Flybondi, Argentina’s first low-cost domestic airline, Mr Cook runs one of the 
most high-profile, disruptive companies emboldened by the centre-right president Mauricio Macri’s promise to open 
Argentina up to competition. He has, unsurprisingly, come under attack. Trade unions, the media and local 
communities have all put up resistance.
In spite of the threats, denigration and obstructions, the 45-year-old yoga enthusiast remains disarmingly serene. 
But he cannot resist taking a swipe at the Financial Times from Flybondi’s quirky offices in downtown Buenos Aires, 
where the main corridor has a runway painted on the floor.
“It’s your fault!” he exclaims, referring to an FT article describing some of the business-friendly policies Mr Macri put 
in place when he took power in December 2015. 
Mr Cook stands by the assessment he made back then that Argentina, as the eighth-largest country in the world, 
“was just crying out for a low-cost airline”. But almost three years later, the scale of the challenges facing his new 
business are becoming ever more apparent.
Flybondi’s Julian Cook: launching against protectionism
He says that in January this year he received a WhatsApp message from a local union leader trying to impose 
conditions. It read: “February is approaching and we still haven’t made any progress on reaching an agreement. I 
remind you that without an agreement, you cannot fly.”
Days later, Flybondi made its maiden flight regardless, and by October, although it had still not reached a deal with 
the unions, it had flown more than 600,000 passengers. It already has a market share of about 8 per cent, which Mr 
Cook expects to reach 10-12 per cent by the end of the year. Next month it will start its first international flights, 
from Buenos Aires to Paraguay and Uruguay. 
At the heart of Mr Cook’s strategy — and a key factor in the success of the carrier’s launch — is his relationship 
with his employees. 
“The key is continuing to build a strong culture in the company and that is what at the end of the day makes us 
succeed or not. People will turn to unions if they feel they are not being listened to by management, if they are 
unhappy. But if we continue to put an emphasis on people and they are happy working for Flybondi and feel they 
are making an impact on the country . . . It’s not like we have won and that’s it, it’s a continuous effort.”
He endeavours to get to know all Flybondi’s staff, to whom he writes a fortnightly email, and is in contact with the 
company’s pilots via WhatsApp.
Rather than being “a CEO perched in an office in a tall building”, Mr Cook flies with his airline at least once a week 
to meet airport staff and cabin crews. 
“Maybe it sounds stupid, but one of our [core] values is happiness. If you look forward to going to work you provide 
a better service,” he says.
He has, however, been unable to win over everyone living around the airport that Flybondi shares with Argentina’s 
air force at El Palomar, in greater Buenos Aires. A group of locals secured a court injunction limiting the airline’s 
flights to three a day, after complaining about the noise that the carrier’s fleet would make — despite the airport 
being a military air base with much noisier aircraft.  
“It was a complete disaster, a huge mess. We were taking a financial hit every day,” says Mr Cook. Flights had to 
be cancelled or redirected. “It annoyed customers and was damaging to our reputation,” he adds. Eventually, the 
courts lifted the restrictions.
This year’s currency crisis in Argentina posed an even greater challenge. Mr Cook had been expecting the US 
dollar to be worth 21 pesos at the end of the year. In late September, it rose above 40. 
“It is an extremely violent change in budget when 100 per cent of your income is in a currency that basically halved 
in value, with over 60 per cent of your costs in US dollars,” he says. Trying to stay positive, he argues that the 
currency’s fall means more Argentines are likely to take holidays at home, while inward international tourism could 
increase.
The government did heed Mr Cook’s pleas for minimum fares to be scrapped, even if this put further pressure on 
the state airline Aerolíneas Argentinas. Minimum fares, together with maximum fares, were first implemented as an 
emergency measure after Argentina’s 2001 economic crisis. “It’s good news that you’ve got a president who 
understands that this is not to benefit us, but to give the freedom to fly to Argentines,” says Mr Cook.
Unions for Aerolíneas Argentinas, long-distance buses and the political opponents of Mr Macri see things 
differently. Mr Cook says: “Anyone who comes to disrupt the status quo is not welcome. We are seeing [criticisms] 
here that you don’t see anywhere else in the world.” He adds that as Flybondi is “very much associated” with the 
government: “To hit on Flybondi is a way for the opposition to hit on the government.” 
Among the criticisms levelled at Mr Cook was that he holds a British passport. The fact that his company was using 
a former military air base “from where thousands of Argentines left to defend their country against the English” in 
the 1982 Falklands war was “at the very least suggestive”, wrote one local journalist. 
Flybondi’s Julian Cook: launching against protectionism
Although he has both Swiss and UK citizenship, Mr Cook says that he usually describes himself as Swiss “for the 
sake of simplicity”, having grown up in Switzerland, where his parents still live.
He ignored the bad press, believing that “people would eventually see through all this” — as was the case for 
Ryanair and EasyJet, which were also attacked when they led the rapid expansion of budget flights in Europe two 
decades ago. And, as a board member pointed out, the criticism “was better than not being talked about at all”.
Three questions to Julian Cook
Who is your leadership hero?
Mahatma Gandhi. There is a statue of him in a park in Palermo which reminds me of one of the famous quotes 
attributed to him: “Be the change that you wish to see in the world.”
If you were not a chief executive, what would you be?
More than a CEO, I am an entrepreneur. I support Ashoka [a global organisation that supports social 
entrepreneurship] in Argentina.
What was your first leadership lesson?
Leadership is about transmitting a vision in order to make ordinary people do extraordinary things. Leadership is 
about showing the way (Vision), telling your team how we are going to get there (Mission) and with what principles 
(Values).
Load-Date: November 28, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair stirs up anger among pilots as it recruits for new UK arm
Ryanair stirs up anger among pilots as it recruits for new UK arm
 
FT.com
November 21, 2018 Wednesday 6:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 490 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has further stirred up anger among some of its pilots as it starts to recruit for a UK subsidiary established to 
protect the company against a no-deal Brexit.
Pilots say the salaries offered at the subsidiary undermine Ryanair’s claims about how much they earn, which the 
airline insists would not be lower than the parent group and can be up to €200,000 (£178,000).
Captains will receive basic pay of £105,000 and first officers £55,000 as part of “a small number” of secondments to 
Ryanair UK starting in January 2019. There are 3,000 Ryanair pilots at its 14 UK bases.
“There will be a lot of unhappy guys. Pay is well below what Ryanair keep banging on about (€200,000),” one 
Ryanair pilot said. 
Ryanair says on its corporate recruitment website that it offers “industry leading pay of up to €200,000 pa [per 
annum] as captain” and reiterated that figure in response to a Financial Times question.
Brian Strutton, general secretary of the British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa), added: “It is unclear why Ryanair 
thinks it needs to second existing UK pilots into its new UK [subsidiary]. This is potentially confusing, inflexible and 
bureaucratic.”
In an email to all pilots, seen by the Financial Times, chief operating officer Peter Bellew invited pilots to apply for a 
12-month secondment to Ryanair UK.
Ryanair stirs up anger among pilots as it recruits for new UK arm
“As part of our preparations for Brexit, we are establishing a UK airline to safeguard our flying rights in the UK,” he 
wrote. “The process of applying to the UK Civil Aviation Authority is under way.”
Ryanair also said it would work with the union. “We will be discussing Ryanair UK with Balpa and we do not foresee 
any difficulty with extending terms of Ryanair’s recognition agreement to Ryanair UK,” the company said.
Ryanair UK is applying for an operating licence from the UK regulator for the subsidiary, which has been created for 
flights within Britain should the country leave the EU without an agreement.
The company is determined that the parent company should remain EU owned and controlled, which will enable it 
to continue to fly in the EU bloc. 
The subsidiary will have one aeroplane to start with, based at Stansted airport, but the airline expects “to ramp up 
aircraft number in the coming seasons”. 
The latest move comes against a background of poor industrial relations at Ryanair. 
It has been engaged in negotiations with its unions since agreeing to recognise them in late 2017 after a rostering 
failure and staff shortage led to thousands of cancellations.
But talks have progressed fitfully, and there was a summer of strikes including five days by Irish pilots and two days 
of co-ordinated pan-European action by cabin crew.
Ryanair Sun, the airline’s Polish subsidiary, is refusing to recognise the new national union for cabin crew and is 
asking them and pilots to sign up to the company’s local subsidiary as contractors, in effect turning them into 
precarious workers without permanent employee rights.
Load-Date: November 22, 2018
End of Document
Opening Quote: easyJet rises above grounded rivals
Opening Quote: easyJet rises above grounded rivals
 
FT.com
November 20, 2018 Tuesday 8:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 895 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
EasyJet full-year results
In the airline business, your profit can take off if your competitors can’t. And easyJet — despite being pushed to the 
back of the queue by snotty air traffic controllers at Gatwick whenever your correspondent is on board — has 
certainly been taking off more successfully than the collapsed Monarch and Air Berlin. Not to mention the oft-
cancelled Ryanair. 
This morning, easyJet said it managed to get a record 88.5m passengers airborne in the year to September 30 — 
10.2 per cent more than last time — with a record aircraft load factor of 92.9 per cent. That was even more than the 
forecast 5.4 per cent increase to 84.6m. And it was all thanks to the airline’s expansion into Berlin Tegel airport, at 
Air Berlin’s expense, and gaining seven new number one airport positions ahead of other rivals.
Total revenue per seat, excluding its Tegel operation, rose 8.3 per cent, compared with a forecast increase of 6.5 
per cent in constant currency.
Hence this morning’s 41 per cent uplift in headline full-year pre-tax profit, to £578m, at the very the top end of 
previous guidance of £570m-£580m.
But shareholders, like bored co-pilots, are advised to keeping look ahead rather than looking down at their morning 
newspapers. Analysts said investors should be looking out for other signs of growth and cost pressures. 
In the 2018/19 financial year, EasyJet said capacity could rise by 10 per cent but revenue per seat would drop by 
low to mid-single digits. Today it confirmed that capacity would be up by around 10 per cent for 2019 and by around 
Opening Quote: easyJet rises above grounded rivals
15 per cent in the first half year, with revenue per seat down as expected because of one-off revenue benefits 
recorded in the 2018 financial year, dilution from Tegel and the timing of Easter.
It also admitted that cost per seat excluding fuel at constant currency would be flat at best for the 12 months to 
September 30, 2019 — and that was after spending more money on “strategic initiatives to drive margin and 
returns”. Total capital expenditure for the financial year to September 30, 2019 is expected to be £1bn
Brexit is unlikely to ground easyJet, though. Today, the airline said it is close to having a majority of its shares held 
in the European Economic Area (excluding UK), which would avoid any problems whenever Britain leaves the EU. 
Currently the EEA shareholding percentage stands at 47 per cent. 
Key numbers:
•
Total revenue up 16.8 per cent to £5.9bn 
•
Headline profit before tax up 41 per cent to £578m
•
43 per cent increase in proposed dividend
•
Headline cost per seat excluding fuel up 5.3 per cent to £43.43
As the City expected? Yes. EasyJet was expected to report revenue of £5.9bn and had already narrowed its profit 
guidance range for the year to £570m-£580m from £550m-£590m previously.
What was said: easyJet said “Both the EU and the UK have said that their objective is to maintain flights between 
the EU and the UK, whatever the Brexit outcome. This gives easyJet confidence that flying rights will be 
maintained, and it continues to work with EU institutions, EU member states and the UK to ensure that this is 
achieved.”
OQ verdict: EasyJet has capitalised on the financial woes of vertically challenged rivals. Its full-year profit was in 
the upper half of its previous guidance and well up on the £408m last year. 
But some had been have been hoping for a downturn in costs per seat — and instead analysts note that easyJet’s 
non-fuel costs are rising, which could “quickly become a problem”. So, too, could fuel costs themselves, competition 
and Brexit deal delays. easyJet’s shares have nosedived in the second half of 2018 as investors have fretted about 
all of these. So, if analysts’ estimates for the current year’s pre-tax profit to come in broadly flat at around £580m it 
will be something to write home about. Even from Gatwick airport. 
Compass full-year results
Compass, the blue-chip provider of chips to canteens, ahem, I’m sorry, healthy options to staff restaurants around 
the world (ketchup optional), shows no sign of sluggishness. In a third-quarter trading update at the end of July, the 
FTSE 100 group said it was on track to deliver revenue growth at the upper end of a 4-6 per cent range, with North 
America to remain particularly strong. And this morning, it reported 5.5 per cent underlying revenue growth, largely 
thanks to the home of the breakfast pancake, lunchtime burger and evening pizza. Organic revenue was up 7.8 per 
cent across the Atlantic. 
However, unlike some of its customers, margins had not been expanding in the first half, which some analysts 
found slightly disappointing. Today, it reported a flat operating margin for the full year at 7.4 per cent because lower 
volumes and higher costs at its UK business could not offset the benefits of a wider cost-cutting plan.
Key numbers:
•
Underlying revenue up 5.5 per cent to £23.2bn;
•
Underlying operating profit up from £1.63 to £1.74bn for the year ended September 30.
As the City expected? Compass had forecast revenue growth nearer 6 per cent than 4 per cent.
Opening Quote: easyJet rises above grounded rivals
OQ verdict: Compass had achieved its first half margin progress through a leaner approach, rather than fatter 
prices. Analysts at Hargreaves Lansdown noted that Compass had been working to generate efficiencies through 
its management and performance plan, so this morning’s news of a flat margin many not be so well received by the 
market.
Load-Date: November 20, 2018
End of Document
UK-exposed stocks tumble as Brexit uncertainty grows
UK-exposed stocks tumble as Brexit uncertainty grows
 
FT.com
November 15, 2018 Thursday 5:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 893 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Stocks exposed to the UK economy tumbled on Thursday as parliamentary resignations over Prime Minister 
Theresa May’s draft EU withdrawal agreement threw the Brexit process into chaos. 
Royal Bank of Scotland suffered its biggest fall in more than two years, losing nearly 10 per cent on fears of slower 
economic growth, rising defaults, business disruption and the tail risk of a break-up under a Labour government. 
A plunge for the pound helped support the multinational-heavy FTSE 100, but sectors reliant on domestic earnings 
and those exposed to political risks were hit hard. Indices tracking UK electricity companies, transport operators 
and general retailers all fell more than 4 per cent, while those tracking banking, telecoms and life insurance 
retreated about 3 per cent. 
“UK earnings recovery is in full swing for UK plc,” said Citigroup analyst Jonathan Stubbs. “This likely continues 
barring a hard landing in the UK or the end of the global cycle . . . Brexit-related risks could end this earnings 
recovery.”
The FTSE 100, which takes an estimated three-quarters of revenue from outside the UK, ended the day little 
changed as investors switched into dollar and euro earners such as Unilever, Randgold Resources and Smirnoff 
owner Diageo. When priced in dollars, the UK blue-chip benchmark was down 1.4 per cent.
UK-exposed stocks tumble as Brexit uncertainty grows
But fears about UK consumer sentiment hit housebuilders and leisure stocks, sending the mid-cap FTSE 250 lower 
as much as 2 per cent. Countryside Properties, buy-to-let lender OneSavings Bank and travel agent Thomas Cook 
were all under pressure. 
Bovis Homes fell even after the housebuilder said it had met sales targets for 2018 and would match full-year profit 
expectations. “Whilst we have maintained our rate of sale, the uncertainty surrounding Brexit has impacted 
discretionary buyers,” Bovis cautioned. 
By the close, Bovis was down 7.2 per cent, Countryside and OneSavings had dropped more than 9 per cent and 
Thomas Cook was 4.3 per cent lower.
EasyJet and Ryanair weakened about 7 per cent on concern that flights might be grounded by a no-deal split from 
the EU. Domestic airline Flybe, which earlier this week put itself up for sale, dropped 16 per cent.
“The risks of a disorderly outcome are significantly underpriced by the market,” said Deutsche Bank strategist Oliver 
Harvey. 
Concern about fragile consumer confidence were stoked by news that UK retail sales had contracted for the second 
consecutive month. October retail sales contracted 0.5 per cent month on month, compared with consensus 
expectations of a 0.2 per cent rise, with the Office for National Statistics reporting that clothing, food and fuel 
volumes had all deteriorated. 
“With wage growth pushing higher and inflation dropping fast — particularly for retail goods — UK shoppers should 
be feeling a bit more bullish, despite the weather. Yet the summer strength seems to have faded out and consumer 
confidence surveys also suggest a somewhat subdued mood,” said HSBC economist Elizabeth Martins. 
With inflation subdued and political uncertainty rising, the Bank of England was likely to keep interest rates on hold 
until the end of 2020, she said.
Financial stocks including Lloyds priced in the likelihood of a more gradual path for interest rate rises eroding their 
net interest margins, as well as the hit to likely economic growth and potential disruption from a no-deal Brexit. 
Citigroup estimated that no deal would reduce UK domestic bank earnings by between 15 and 25 per cent 
compared with consensus forecasts. 
But Barclays analysts did not anticipate a “doom loop” developing. “UK banks are liquid, well capitalised and 
recently showed resilience in the European Banking Authority stress test,” it said. “Overall, we see the risk of a no-
deal scenario as being an economic risk and an earnings risk rather than a solvency risk to the UK banking 
system.”
Speculation of a snap general election also weighed on regulated utilities and government outsourcers such as 
Capita, which dropped nearly 15 per cent. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has pledged to take privatised companies 
back into public ownership and has threatened to cancel state contracts awarded to “rogue suppliers”. 
“Labour’s policies would be negative for UK equities, in our view. However, the popularity of the incumbent party 
typically declines by only 1 percentage point 42 months out from an election (ie where we are now), suggesting a 
minority Conservative government could persist,” said Credit Suisse. 
SSE, the Scottish power group, and power station owner Drax were also hit by a landmark European Court of 
Justice ruling that deemed the UK energy subsidy scheme  unlawful. SSE lost 9 per cent and Drax was 6.7 per cent 
lower. 
While UK institutional investors have been net sellers of UK equities for two decades, outflows hit record levels over 
the past three years, EPFR data show. This exodus, along with the hedge from sterling and an equity risk premiums 
on UK stocks that has moved above their European counterparts, should all help to damp further declines, argued 
Citigroup. 
UK-exposed stocks tumble as Brexit uncertainty grows
“Recent events appear to make a Brexit deal less likely by end March 2019,” said Citi. “This means an extended 
period of uncertainty and headwinds for UK mid-cap stocks and for UK domestic stocks, including banks. However, 
a lot of Brexit risk already appears priced into domestic shares.”
Load-Date: November 21, 2018
End of Document
Investors urge airlines to outline Brexit strategy
Investors urge airlines to outline Brexit strategy
 
FT.com
November 13, 2018 Tuesday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 787 words
Byline: Josh Spero and Attracta Mooney
Body
Investors are stepping up pressure on IAG, Ryanair and easyJet to explain how the airlines are preparing their 
businesses for a no-deal Brexit as fears rise that their aircraft will be grounded. 
Shareholders have asked for meetings with airline bosses and board members as the Brexit deadline looms. There 
are growing concerns UK-based investors could be forced to dump shares in the event of a no-deal Brexit or lose 
voting rights.
One big UK-based investor said: “We are due to see easyJet shortly and will be pressing for more detail. It affects 
them as much as everyone else. 
“They [the airlines] are putting contingency plans in place. It is going to be a major problem if they can’t take off or 
land.”
Another of the UK’s biggest investors said portfolio managers at the asset manager had been pressing for more 
details on how the  airlines would cope with a no-deal Brexit. 
“It is not a simple question and you can bet your bottom dollar the answer will be even more complex,” he said. 
“They are running the business, they are closer to the policymakers. If we got the answer that they weren’t worried 
about it, it would raise a warning flag.”
Investors urge airlines to outline Brexit strategy
This is because the European Commission is planning to give airlines no extra time to meet the EU’s ownership 
requirements, according to Brussels’ draft contingency plans. Under existing rules, airlines must prove they are 50 
per cent EU owned and controlled to qualify for operating licences. 
Ryanair and easyJet have tried to respond to the problem by preparing plans to take away voting rights of their non-
EU shareholders to ensure they reach the 51 per cent threshold. 
However, these moves would not go down well with shareholders as they would lose their say on issues from pay 
to the chairman’s role. 
Paul Lee, a corporate governance expert, said it would be a “terrible result” for UK-based investors if they were to 
lose their right to vote at airlines in the event of a no-deal Brexit. “If you have shares that don’t have voting rights, 
they are not shares. They are a warrant,” he added.
With little time left ahead of Britain’s scheduled March 29 exit, IAG remains the most reluctant to provide detailed 
assurances to investors about how it would address a no-deal, declining to give guidance about whether, if forced, 
over the long term it would opt to be a British company or an EU one.
A report in Spanish newspaper El País over the weekend said IAG had made it clear to authorities in Madrid that it 
would remain European.
Brexit throws up particular problems for IAG as it owns British Airways but also EU-based airlines. 
These have been compounded by the likelihood that a post-Brexit US-UK aviation agreement is expected to require 
the company, which is Spanish-registered, to be majority owned by UK parties. 
“For traffic rights purposes, [IAG] needs to argue that BA is British to one side of the world and to the other they 
need to argue that [IAG’s other subsidiaries] Iberia, Vueling and Aer Lingus are solidly European,” said Andrew 
Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC. He added that supposing that such an outcome could be sustainable after Brexit 
requires “a suspension of disbelief”.
To date IAG has done little more than mention that it has “contingency plans” for Brexit, the response on the issue 
from Antonio Vázquez Romero, IAG chairman.
Elsewhere, long-haul low-cost carrier Norwegian has a UK subsidiary in the same position as BA regarding the US, 
as does Virgin Atlantic.
Sir Richard Branson owns 51 per cent of Virgin, making it majority UK-owned. But he is in the process of selling 31 
per cent to Air France-KLM, which could complicate Virgin’s access rights to the US. US airline Delta owns the 
remaining stake. 
In the event of a no-deal Brexit, AF-KLM and Delta have agreed a deal to keep Virgin as the majority shareholder, 
protecting its US flight rights. 
Norwegian said: “Structurally, Norwegian is well-positioned to protect our flying rights both in Europe and the UK, 
including in the unlikely event of a ‘no deal’ Brexit.” 
Norwegian would use its main airline to keep flying around Europe and its UK one to fly to the US, if a UK-US 
agreement is reached.
In the case of IAG, if there is a no-deal Brexit, it will need to disenfranchise non-EU shareholders by taking away 
voting rights — although this may leave BA in an awkward position regarding its profitable US flights.
But even if everything goes as IAG is hoping for, with a smooth transition and favourable agreements, there is no 
assurance that it can maintain its corporate equilibrium indefinitely. 
Investors urge airlines to outline Brexit strategy
HSBC’s Mr Lobbenberg said: “The requirement that European airlines are controlled and owned by EU citizens is 
there in black and white.”
Additional reporting by Alex Barker in Brussels
Load-Date: November 14, 2018
End of Document
Brussels prepares to adopt delayed no deal Brexit contingency plan
Brussels prepares to adopt delayed no deal Brexit contingency plan
 
FT.com
November 13, 2018 Tuesday 12:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 486 words
Byline: Mehreen Khan and Alex Barker in Brussels
Body
Brussels is preparing to adopt tough no deal contingency plans for Brexit, ramping up pressure on the UK as 
negotiations enter a highly sensitive final phase. 
The European Commission’s college is set to discuss on Tuesday when to publish a long-delayed paper outlining 
the EU’s emergency plans to deal with the UK leaving the union in March 2019 without an agreement. 
The text, which the Financial Times first reported last month, lays out a minimalist approach to dealing with the 
worst effects of a hard-exit. Few contingency measures are envisaged for customs, road transport or trade in food, 
implying huge disruption at the border in the days after Brexit. 
“Contingency measures will only be adopted where strictly necessary, that is in the limited number of cases where 
current rules do not offer satisfactory solutions to mitigate the most disruptive effects for the European Union of a 
withdrawal without an agreement”, says the document. 
Brussels had originally planned to unveil the document last month but delayed publication for fear of upsetting 
negotiations. Although the text has been approved by the commission, the decision on when to publish will be taken 
by the college of commissioners who meet in Strasbourg on Tuesday, said officials. 
Some EU diplomats worry that the uncompromising tone of the document could risk derailing talks at a crucial point, 
when British ministers have said a deal is within “touching distance”. 
Brussels prepares to adopt delayed no deal Brexit contingency plan
But governments most exposed to the economic impact from a no deal, such as Germany and the Netherlands, 
have pushed the EU to give more details about how it plans to co-ordinate the contingency measures. 
“Without a withdrawal agreement, the speed of preparations will have to increase significantly” warns the 
commission text.
“The transition period foreseen by the draft Withdrawal Agreement would not be available. While the preparations 
for the United Kingdom becoming a third country in many respects would be the same, they would need to take 
place at a much faster pace.” 
The document lays out how EU governments and companies should prepare for a no deal that would affect a range 
of sectors like airlines, haulage companies and financial services firms. 
Airlines such as Ryanair and British Airways parent International Airline Group would not be given any extra 
transition time to meet the bloc’s regulatory requirement of 50 per cent EU-based ownership for a European 
operating licence, resulting in possible flight cancellations.
Road hauliers would also have their access rights limited to a system of permits that only covers 5 per cent of 
existing traffic.
Member states are stepping up their no deal Brexit planning with a series of meetings on sectoral issues such as 
financial services, customs procedures and how to protect the EU’s common budget over the next two months. 
Ambassadors from the EU27 will discuss preparedness at a meeting in Brussels tomorrow. 
Load-Date: November 13, 2018
End of Document
The UK’s skills squeeze poses another Brexit dilemma
The UK’s skills squeeze poses another Brexit dilemma
 
FT.com
November 12, 2018 Monday 6:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 594 words
Byline: The editorial board
Body
There was a particular irony in the recent profit warning from the JD Wetherspoon pub chain, which said it was 
having to increase wages in the face of a tight labour market. Tim Martin, the Wetherspoons chairman, was a 
prominent supporter of Britain’s exit from the EU — which is set to make the labour market even tighter. 
Mr Martin suggested Wetherspoons would not be further squeezed by Brexit as many of its pubs were in low-
immigration towns or rural areas and 90 per cent of its workers were British-born. But across the economy, 
competition will only intensify as the government prepares to curb immigration in response to what it sees as one of 
the driving forces behind the Leave victory in the 2016 referendum.
The UK is already at its closest to full employment since the early 1970s, with a 4 per cent jobless rate. Companies 
such as Royal Mail and Ryanair have also warned of wage pressures. A Financial Times report, meanwhile, found 
the hospitality, IT, construction, healthcare and leisure-related services sectors were suffering acute shortages of 
skilled or unskilled workers. 
In some ways, rising wages are welcome, after pay increases lagged even the insipid recovery of recent years. 
Real incomes have still to regain their level before the financial crisis of a decade ago. But the tight labour market 
has important implications.
The IT, healthcare and construction sectors are all confronting a shortage of necessary skills. For hospitality and 
industries such as hairdressers and beauticians, where half of staff tend to be under 30, the challenge is different. 
Thanks to a dip in the birth rate around the millennium, one senior hospitality sector representative says the issue is 
The UK’s skills squeeze poses another Brexit dilemma
simply a “shortage of bodies available”. The meat processing industry, with 60 per cent of its staff coming from 
continental Europe, has raised alarms too.
By unleashing some pent-up corporate investment, a benign Brexit under an agreed deal — though that scenario 
seems ever more in question— might increase UK economic output by 1 per cent above current forecasts over, 
say, three years. But with such meagre growth in productivity over the past decade, higher wages are likely to be 
passed on quickly to consumers, resulting in inflationary pressures. Interest rate rises from the Bank of England 
would then be likely to snuff out much of this growth. A tighter jobs market makes growth even more likely to be 
inflationary.
The government needs, therefore, to strike a careful balance between the urge to staunch immigration, and 
businesses’ need for staff. Its Migration Advisory Committee  recommended scrapping a 20,700-a-year cap on “Tier 
2” visas for high-skilled workers, to ensure companies can attract talent. But it suggested limiting low-skilled 
migration, except in agriculture.
The Home Office, due to publish an immigration white paper in coming weeks, has indicated it might reject some 
MAC recommendations. It should consider sector-specific visa schemes allowing critical industries such as food 
processing to bring in non-UK workers for a defined period.
Over the longer term, the answer must be, in part, investment in education and re-training to match the needs of 
British employers. Even if it can navigate its way successfully through Brexit, however, the government will face a 
continuing dilemma. The 2016 vote put it under pressure to close doors to migrants. Yet even a modest Brexit 
dividend — one that recouped some of the growth lost since the referendum — could be partially dissipated if there 
are not enough workers to deliver it.
Load-Date: November 16, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair pays France €525,000 for impounded jet
Ryanair pays France €525,000 for impounded jet
 
FT.com
November 9, 2018 Friday 4:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 487 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Ryanair faced yet more woe as the low-cost airline was forced to pay €525,000 to France on Friday to secure the 
return of a jet impounded at Bordeaux airport. 
The Irish company, which has faced months of bad publicity over flight disruptions and strikes, made the payment 
after almost 150 passengers were taken off a London-bound plane by the French Civil Aviation Authority. 
France said the jet was seized as a “last resort” in a dispute over the repayment of regional funding for flights at the 
Angoulême airport that were later deemed illegal by the EU. 
The Associated Press cited Eric Heraud, spokesman for the French Civil Aviation Authority, saying the plane would 
be released after  Ryanair paid back the funds. 
The ruling by the European Commission was one of seven findings of illegal state aid between 2014 and 2016 
against Ryanair’s arrangements at regional airports that included Nîmes, Altenburg, Zweibrücken, Cagliari and 
Klagenfurt. 
The airline appealed in the European courts after it was ordered to repay some €23.7m of alleged aid for conferring 
an unfair economic advantage to the company. 
The French authority said: “It is unfortunate that the state had to take such action, which led to the inevitable 
inconvenience of the 149 passengers on board the immobilised plane.” 
Ryanair pays France €525,000 for impounded jet
It added: “Those passengers were able to eventually reach their destination later that evening on another Ryanair 
plane, but with a five-hour delay.” 
Ryanair did not respond to a request for comments. 
The company faces more pressure from competition regulators. In October the European Commission opened an 
inquiry into whether Ryanair benefited from illegal state aid at Germany’s Frankfurt-Hahn airport. 
In recent days, Italy’s antitrust agency opened a probe against Ryanair’s new hand luggage policies 
The dispute over the grounded jet in Bordeaux comes amid a torrid period of turbulence at the airline that kicked off 
last year when a rostering “mess-up” led to thousands of flights being cancelled. 
This week the company sacked six cabin crew who were pictured sleeping on the floor of a Spanish airport office. 
Ryanair said the image, widely shared online, was staged. 
The development came as Ryanair and Michael O’Leary, its longtime chief executive, were sued in New York by a 
shareholder claiming the airline defrauded investors and inflated its share price by overstating its ability to manage 
labour relations and keep costs down. Ryanair said such claims were “false” and “doomed to fail”. 
In addition, lawyers representing an elderly woman racially abused on a flight have demanded compensation and 
asked the airline for a “proper” apology. There was outrage last month when a passenger was filmed hurling verbal 
abuse at the woman.
The company, which is facing shareholder pressure to replace longtime chairman David Bonderman, has reported 
a 9 per cent drop in pre-tax profit to €1.3bn in the six months to September. 
Load-Date: November 10, 2018
End of Document
The five UK sectors grappling with acute labour shortages
The five UK sectors grappling with acute labour shortages
 
FT.com
November 8, 2018 Thursday 12:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1032 words
Byline: Gavin Jackson in London
Body
Britain’s economy is the closest it has been to full  employment since the early 1970s — with the jobless rate now at 
4 per cent — and companies are finding it harder to hire the right workers. 
Some companies are expecting it will become even more difficult to recruit once the UK leaves the EU because the 
government is proposing a new  immigration regime that lets some high skilled workers into the UK but places 
curbs on untrained labour.
After years of sluggish wage growth, low unemployment is now starting to hit companies’ profits: JD Wetherspoon, 
Royal Mail and Ryanair have recently complained about rising labour costs. 
The Financial Times has reviewed official and other data to identify the five sectors of the economy that are 
grappling with the most acute labour shortages, and below are the findings.
Hospitality
Chefs were the most in-demand skilled trade in the UK last year, according to the 2017 Employers Skills Survey 
compiled by the government and published in August.
This was one reason why hotels and restaurants had the highest level of so-called hard-to-fill job vacancies of any 
part of the British economy in the survey. 
The five UK sectors grappling with acute labour shortages
These figures have been backed up by the latest official labour market statistics, from August, which found that 
accommodation and food services had the highest vacancy rate of any industry in the UK — with 4.1 advertised 
positions for every 100 people employed in the sector. 
JD Wetherspoon, the pub chain, on Wednesday issued a profit warning as the company also said it was raising 
wages for staff amid record low unemployment.
Demographics are the problem, said Kate Nicholls, chief executive of Hospitality UK, a trade body. About half the 
workers in a sector that encompasses everything from coffee bars to nightclubs is aged under 30 and there are far 
fewer 18 to 24-year-olds entering the jobs market because of a dip in the birth rate around the millennium. 
“It’s what makes Brexit . . . so worrying for hospitality,” added Ms Nichols. “It’s not skill shortages, not a failure to 
upskill our workers, simply a shortage of bodies available.” 
There is, however, a shortage of qualified chefs because the number of people going to catering colleges has 
declined. 
Information technology
Information technology was last year the sector with the second highest proportion of hard-to-fill vacancies, the 
Employers Skills Survey found.
IT is the most in-demand skills set this year across multiple industries, according to a survey published last month 
by the Recruitment and Employment Confederation, an industry trade body. 
Software engineers and programmers were particularly sought after, with many respondents to the survey 
mentioning automation, the C++ and C# programming languages and cyber security as key skills. 
“It’s a high growth area, the tech sector specifically, and we’re not producing the right skills domestically,” said 
Vinous Ali, head of policy at Tech UK, a trade body.
IT workers from overseas were frequently finding they were unable to move to the UK last year, she added, as the 
sector bumped up against a cap on so-called Tier 2 visas issued by the UK government to skilled workers. 
“Businesses [will go] elsewhere if they can’t get access to the right people here in the UK,” said Ms Ali.
Construction
The building trade had the greatest rate of vacancies based on skills shortages, meaning positions left open for six 
months or more because of a lack of adequately trained applicants, the Employers Skills Survey found. The sector 
also had the third highest rate of hard-to-fill vacancies.
The shortages of skilled workers is reflected in official wage growth figures. In the three months to August, year-on-
year growth in real wages in the construction industry hit 4.6 per cent, compared with 3.1 per cent in the economy 
as a whole. 
Skills shortages in the sector have been common since 2014, when construction activity started to recover after the 
downturn following the financial crisis, said Rebecca Larkin, chief economist at the Construction Products 
Association, a trade body.
Many construction workers quit the industry during that downtown, she added, while a lot who stayed are now 
heading for retirement and some EU nationals may have been discouraged from coming to the UK since the  Brexit 
vote. 
So far the skills shortages have led to higher wages and a squeeze on construction companies’ profits margins 
rather than higher costs for customers, said Ms Larkin.
The five UK sectors grappling with acute labour shortages
Healthcare
Vacancies in the healthcare sector have surged during the past few years, according to official data. The vacancy 
rate has risen from 2 open positions for every 100 employed workers in 2013, to 3.2 now.
The sector has been hit hard by austerity inspired public spending cuts since 2010. Workers in the National Health 
Service were affected by a public sector pay freeze, leading to remuneration falling in real terms, while local 
authorities cut funding for care homes. 
Emily Andrews, associate director at the Institute for Government, a think-tank, said the government’s move to ease 
the pay cap was unlikely to be enough to end the recruitment and retention problems in the NHS.
“The number of people leaving the NHS who cite work-life balance as their reason has doubled since 2011,” she 
added. “These pretty small pay increases are not going to be enough to counter that.”
Leisure and other services
Respondents to the Employers Skills Survey told the Department for Education that there were “emerging labour 
shortages” in some smaller leisure-related industries, especially hairdressers, barbers and beauticians. 
“It’s part of a success story,” said Hilary Hall, chief executive of the National Hair and Beauty Federations, a trade 
body. “Walk down any high street and you’ll see just how many businesses of this kind there are.”
As British shopping has moved online, nail bars, tattoo parlours and coffee shops have proliferated along the high 
street. 
But like hospitality, the beauty sector has struggled to attract new workers as roughly half of the workers in this area 
tend to be under 30. Companies are looking at recruiting older apprentices, including those returning to the labour 
market after taking time off to raise children. 
Load-Date: November 26, 2018
End of Document
UK’s rising wages eat into companies’ profits
UK’s rising wages eat into companies’ profits
 
FT.com
November 7, 2018 Wednesday 2:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 724 words
Byline: Sarah Gordon and Naomi Rovnick
Body
JD Wetherspoon issued a profit warning on Wednesday in a further sign of how rising wages are starting to erode 
corporate profitability in the UK.
Shares in the pub chain fell sharply after it said it was increasing wages from this week, and its full-year profits 
would be lower as a result.
The tight labour market has prompted other companies, including Royal Mail and Ryanair, to warn recently that 
their profits are being hit by rising staff costs.
Shares in G4S, the security operator, also fell sharply on Wednesday after it blamed a hit to trading on tight labour 
markets, particularly in the Benelux countries. 
The profit warnings reflect how salaries have finally started to rise in the UK after years of stagnation. Wage growth 
reached its highest level since the financial crisis in the three months to the end of August, with average weekly 
earnings, excluding bonuses, 3.1 per cent higher than a year earlier.
The rate of wage growth was the fastest since the recession that followed the financial crisis in 2008, and the first 
time the headline rate of pay growth has been higher than 3 per cent in a decade.
Meanwhile, the number of people in work is at a near-record high, and unemployment, at 4 per cent in August, is at 
its lowest point since the mid-1970s.
UK’s rising wages eat into companies’ profits
Neil Carberry, chief executive of the Recruitment and Employment Confederation, said recruiters were reporting 
significant rises in starting salaries.
“This is now feeding through to both pay settlements and government pay awards which are heading towards 3 per 
cent,” he said. “We’ve not seen this sustainably since before the financial crisis.”
Frances O’Grady, general secretary of the Trades Union Congress, said: “Workers have been suffering the longest 
pay slump in 200 years, while corporate profits have continued to hit record levels.
“And in companies like Wetherspoons, some staff are still paid less than the living wage, despite record profits.”
Although the share of corporate profits to national output has remained broadly stable since 2005, the  net rate of 
return for private non-financial corporations rose in the three months to the end of June to 12.7 per cent, up from 
12.5 per cent in the previous quarter, according to the Office for National Statistics.
So far, higher labour costs have not been passed on to shoppers. Consumer price inflation fell to 2.4 per cent in 
September from 2.7 per cent in August. 
And, despite the recent pick-up in wages, once adjusted for inflation, they remain below their pre-crisis peak.
Bank of England officials have justified recent increases in interest rates on the basis that even small rises in wages 
could create inflationary pressure in the economy given the UK’s meagre productivity growth in the past 10 years.
Tim Martin, Wetherspoon chairman, said that after several years of record profits at the pub chain, “we are not 
immediately seeking to recoup these increased costs through higher pricing”. Shares in the pub operator fell 12 per 
cent.
The UK government’s national living wage of £7.83, which all employers are obliged to pay to workers aged over 
25, is due to rise to £8.21 next year.
Concerns have been building among employers of low-skilled workers about their ability to attract employees 
without having to lift wages as the terms of Britain’s upcoming exit from the EU remain uncertain.
Mr Carberry at the Recruitment and Employment Confederation said Wednesday’s profit warnings should be seen 
in the context of high employment rather than Brexit.
“The long-term solutions, particularly for skilled roles, are about how we increase supply, especially in areas where 
there are real shortages, like healthcare professionals, IT or engineers,” he said. 
When asked whether Brexit would make the UK labour market even tighter and push Wetherspoon’s wage bills up 
further, Mr Martin — a vocal Brexit supporter in the 2016 referendum campaign — forecast that would not be the 
case, as 90 per cent of the chain’s workers were British-born.
The CBI said that near-full employment in the UK underlined the need for businesses to access the skills and labour 
they required to succeed post-Brexit. 
“This is vital for UK companies’ continued competitiveness with their international peers and requires an open and 
controlled approach to immigration,” it added.
Additional reporting by Andrew Whiffin and Gavin Jackson
Load-Date: November 8, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet to ITV is now a career route for high-flying executives
EasyJet to ITV is now a career route for high-flying executives
 
FT.com
November 5, 2018 Monday 7:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 825 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Want to make it big in television? Join a low-cost airline! Until last year, this advice only really held good for Brian 
Dowling. You know, Brian Dowling — the former Ryanair flight attendant who won the second series of reality TV 
show Big Brother. ITV gave him his own series called Brian’s Boyfriends, featured him as a contestant on Hell’s 
Kitchen, and made him the presenter of Real Housewives of Cheshire on ITVBe. You know, Brian 
Dow . . . (actually, me neither, I had to Google all of that).
But it is now a career route that has started to work out for certain easyJet employees, too. Since the airline’s chief 
executive, Carolyn McCall won the top job at ITV in 2017, several others have made the short hop from Luton 
airport to central London. On Monday, her chief financial officer at easyJet between 2010 and 2015, Chris Kennedy, 
was appointed to the ITV CFO role. 
“I know he will work really well with the senior leadership team of ITV,” Dame Carolyn said. That may be partly 
because the leadership team includes their former easyJet colleague, Kyla Mullins, who has been brought in as 
head of legal. “Kyla brings great commercial and strategic experience and acumen,” Dame Carolyn told Legal 
Business last month. And that may be partly because her quotes are now distributed by former easyJet 
communications chief Paul Moore, who became ITV’s communications director this year. “He brings with him a 
wealth of PR experience,” Dame Carolyn told . . . you get the gist.
Still, aside from making annual reunions of the easyJet Mutual Appreciation Society easier to organise, the most 
recent appointment does makes a lot of sense, for two reasons.  
EasyJet to ITV is now a career route for high-flying executives
First, it lessens the execution risk — or chance of a personality clash — as Dame Carolyn implements her strategy 
for cutting ITV’s reliance on declining TV advertising — which last year contributed 44 per cent of group revenue. 
One analyst said: “Given the new CFO has worked closely with Carolyn in the past, it seems as good a set-up as 
any to execute on that.” 
Second, despite being hired from struggling FTSE 100 software group Micro Focus — where his main task was 
issuing a profit warning — ITV stressed Mr Kennedy’s 17 years at music business EMI, where he worked on the 
kind of digital content licensing deals that ITV now seeks, plus his CFO role at UK technology pioneer Arm Holdings 
“where he was a key player in £24bn, 60+ price/earnings [ratio] sale of Arm to SoftBank”.
However, as Big Brother contestants were often warned, ITV might want to think about how it comes across.
Its specific reference to the Arm sale — and mention of the earnings multiple achieved — led another analyst to 
conclude “it may also be a flag that ITV is open to a sale”. And its continued hiring of easyJet executives may leave 
Dame Carolyn open to criticism of surrounding herself with, er, appreciative former colleagues. Worse still, it might 
even inspire senior ITV execs to mutter “Doors to manual” whenever her entourage approaches.  
Crawshaw: unkind cuts
Crawshaw, the Rotherham bargain banger and burger company, is on the butchers’ block, writes Kate Burgess. On 
Monday, it called in administrators EY who talked of over-expansion, rising rents and dwindling footfall. Chairman 
Jim McCarthy, ex of Poundland, said six weeks ago that the group would make a £3m loss in the year to January 
2019. It barely made it through another month. Fewer than half of the group’s 50-plus stores are profitable and the 
cash has run out. This is the business that won the Alternative Investment Market award for best performing shares 
in 2014 and 2016. 
For nearly 50 years, Crawshaw was a small business mopping up blood and gluts and packaging them to appeal to 
Yorkshire tastes and undercut the supermarkets. In 2007, it joined Aim under the chairmanship of Richard Rose. He 
talked of 400 branches by the mid-2020s and brought in Noel Collett, from discounter Lidl. Together, they doubled 
Crawshaw’s store count. Last year, Mr Rose handed over to Mr McCarthy and the group carved out an agreement 
to be supplied by 2-Sisters, the food empire of Brummie chicken king Ranjit Boparan, who took 30 per cent of 
Crawshaw’s shares. But a 2018 turnround plan proved too late. 
Two things emerge from the sorry tale. First, Mr Boparan — king of chooks ‘n’ gobblers, having bought Bernard 
“turkey” Matthews out of a pre-pack administration in 2016 — may now pick over Crawshaw’s bones at his leisure, 
and select the choicest cuts. Second, Lidl is a hard act to follow.
Bookmakers: in check?
Some politicians want a faster crackdown on fixed-odds betting terminals. But have they missed another cause of 
problem gambling? Unibet now claims: “Betting on World Chess Championship match to rival Champions League 
Final.” £10 says Friday’s first game opens with a Berlin Defence of the Ruy Lopez. Got to be more effective than 
Liverpool’s defence against Real Madrid . . .  
matthew.vincent@ft.com
Crawshaw: kate.burgess@ft.com
Load-Date: November 6, 2018
End of Document
IAG raises earnings guidance as growth outlook improves
IAG raises earnings guidance as growth outlook improves
 
FT.com
November 2, 2018 Friday 3:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 390 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Airline group IAG, which owns British Airways, raised its earnings expectations for 2019-23 by more than 10 per 
cent, to an average of €7.2bn each year.
In a presentation to analysts at its capital markets day on Friday, IAG predicted that, while higher fuel prices over 
the next five years would cancel out increases in passenger revenue, additional growth would come from its cargo 
business and other sources including BA Holidays.
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, who attended the presentation, said: “They’re putting a lot of emphasis on 
reminding everybody of the core investment of IAG and that the group is valued very cheaply against other equities 
out there. It’s good progress in a challenging operating environment.”
Shares in IAG were up by 2.8 per cent to 635p at lunchtime on Friday. The increase came a day after two credit 
rating agencies gave IAG investment-grade ratings for the first time.
The company’s presentation on Friday said it was “significantly undervalued relative to peers”.
 IAG’s shares trade at 6.1 times next year’s earnings, according to the Capital IQ data service, which is between 
that of its legacy carrier rivals Air France-KLM (6.3 times) and Lufthansa (4.6 times). But this is far behind low-cost 
carriers such as easyJet and Ryanair, both above 10 times.
As part of its five-year plan,  IAG will increase its capital expenditure from an average of €2.1bn each year from 
2018-22, to €2.6bn for 2019-23, with most of the money going on new aircraft.
IAG raises earnings guidance as growth outlook improves
The group will expand its fleet from 549 last year to 716 in 2023, which includes more than 100 new short-haul 
planes, switching out of Airbus A320s into A320neos, and more than 50 long-haul craft.
It will also roll out Wi-Fi, upgrade lounges and invest more in IT. In September, BA announced that its website and 
app had been hacked, initially saying that 380,000 people’s data had been taken, but in October it increased that by 
185,000.
In its third-quarter results last week, IAG, which also owns Ireland’s Aer Lingus and Spain’s Iberia, reported a small 
fall in pre-tax profit but a small beat in revenue against analysts’ consensus. Fuel costs accelerated in the latest 
quarter, rising 14 per cent per available seat kilometre (ASK), a standard industry measure, and leading total cost 
per ASK up 3.8 per cent. Revenue per ASK only went up 1.3 per cent.
Load-Date: November 3, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa chief Carsten Spohr warns on limits to growth
Lufthansa chief Carsten Spohr warns on limits to growth
 
FT.com
November 2, 2018 Friday 9:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 774 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of Lufthansa has said the airline industry needs to give up the “fantasy of growth going on 
forever” after a summer of strikes, delays and cancellations.
Problems with airspace, airports and manufacturers delivering aircraft showed that “this industry has reached its 
maximum growth rate”, said Carsten Spohr, 51, who is also the German carrier’s chairman. 
“What we need is healthy growth in line with infrastructure and manufacturers’ capacity and airline capacity. We 
can’t excuse ourselves, we are part of it.”
Aviation capacity in Europe, measured by the number of seats, has increased about 6 per cent a year since 
2016. This exceeds the industry’s broad guide for sustainable growth of twice gross domestic product, which has 
recently been 2 per cent in Europe. 
There are signs that this growth is leading to delays and disruption. In July, European airline passengers 
experienced more than 135,000 minutes of in-flight delays on average each day. That is 94 days’ worth of delays 
every day — more than double the year before.
In Mr Spohr’s view, the sector has to moderate its expansionary plans to ease the pressure. The Lufthansa Group, 
which also owns Swiss, Austrian Airlines and low-cost Eurowings, will only increase seat capacity by 3.8 per cent 
next year, while this winter overall European capacity will grow 8.8 per cent, according to Barclays.
There are several problems contributing to European delays. 
Lufthansa chief Carsten Spohr warns on limits to growth
Lufthansa and other airlines suffered from Airbus’s problems delivering its new A320neo aeroplane to customers, 
which also meant there were fewer spare aircraft around Europe to lease and use.
There were shortages of and strikes by Europe’s air traffic controllers as well, driving airlines including British 
Airways, Ryanair and easyJet to  file complaints with the European Commission demanding they take action.
One proposed remedy for air traffic control disruption is known as the  Single European Sky, which would 
amalgamate national airspace.
Mr Spohr said SES was “overdue by many years” and required Europe’s politicians to tackle national labour and 
political obstruction. “They have overcome resistance on the ground to create open borders in Schengen, and 
there’s no need why this shouldn’t be done in the air as well.”
In October, transport commissioner Violeta Bulc  told the Financial Times that SES had been in development for 
more than 25 years and called for more investment and adoption of technology from EU states to combat delays. 
This summer’s congestion, she said, was “stimulating everyone to act”.
Mr Spohr, who is a qualified pilot, said delays to SES left him “very, very frustrated”.
“As a pilot, it frustrates me even more knowing that anyone who owns a Cessna and an iPhone could fly straight 
from a to b in European aviation space but my pilots have to take up to 5 per cent detours.” This is because smaller 
planes do not enter the upper airspace and can fly directly, whereas larger planes must follow established aerial 
routes.
Mr Spohr said that Lufthansa took its share of responsibility for delays and would invest in more spare aircraft and 
IT resilience.
He also defended the company’s integration of parts of the bankrupt Air Berlin into Lufthansa’s Eurowings carrier. 
The expense of the task caused Lufthansa’s shares to drop 8.1 per cent after its third-quarter results on Tuesday. 
Its shares are now down a third on a year ago.
He said the market had “underestimated the complexity of a puzzle consisting of 77 aircraft, thousands of crew, 
millions of passengers and hundreds of slots”. It was much more difficult to integrate parts of a bankrupt airline than 
take over a whole solvent one.
One analyst said the move to assume parts of Air Berlin had been “strategic genius”, securing Lufthansa’s 
leadership across German airports, but the execution was “dismal”, with unit costs rising and unit revenues falling.
Mr Spohr said the Air Berlin experience had not diminished his desire to see consolidation in the sector.
Lufthansa has previously expressed interest in taking over long-haul low-cost carrier Norwegian.
But he said it was improbable one airline could take over another wholesale: “As Air Berlin had to be split up to be 
consolidated, that’s very likely for other midsize airlines in Europe as well.”
Analysts are not overall bearish on Lufthansa, with Daniel Roeska at Bernstein praising its “longer-term strengths”, 
including its cash flow and dominance in German-speaking Europe. 
But what Mr Spohr is asking for from the markets is more time before he is judged on Air Berlin. He cited a German 
proverb: “The impossible we do right away; miracles take longer.”
Load-Date: November 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair turns Polish pilots into precarious workers
Ryanair turns Polish pilots into precarious workers
 
FT.com
November 1, 2018 Thursday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1001 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London and James Shotter in Wroclaw
Body
Michael O’Leary’s commitment to union representation has looked less convincing of late.
The Ryanair boss, who said last year he had reluctantly come to accept unionisation despite previously saying “hell 
would freeze over” before he did so, appears not to have entirely abandoned his old position, judging by the airline’s 
actions in Poland.
The low-cost carrier is refusing to recognise the new Polish union for cabin crew and is asking them and pilots to 
sign up to the company’s local subsidiary as contractors, in effect turning them into precarious workers without 
permanent employee rights. 
The move comes against a background of acrimonious labour struggles at the airline, with summer strikes including 
five days by Irish pilots and two days of co-ordinated pan-European action by cabin crew.
Even though Poland is only a small part of the Ryanair operation, some industry figures fear the airline could try and 
extend the strategy elsewhere to circumvent the unions.
Jeremy Anderson, head of strategic research at the International Transport Workers’ Federation, said the contracts 
were “very clearly at odds with the direction that Ryanair claims it’s been taking, which is to fundamentally 
recognise unions”.
He added that “this looks like they are trying to union-bust” given that the company introduced the contracts around 
the same time as Ryanair’s Polish cabin crew established a union, CWR. 
Ryanair turns Polish pilots into precarious workers
Ryanair announced in September it was closing its bases in Poland as of 2019 and said pilots and cabin crew could 
apply for jobs as self-employed contractors of Ryanair Sun, the airline’s subsidiary in the country.
Those who wanted to work for Ryanair Sun had to sign service agreements with Warsaw Aviation, which acts as an 
employment agency and “directs people to provide services to Ryanair Sun”, according to a pilot’s contract seen by 
the Financial Times.
Michal Kaczmarzyk, who is the chief executive of Ryanair Sun, is listed on the agreement as a member of the 
management board of Warsaw Aviation, which is entirely owned by Ryanair Sun and shares an address with it.
The contract says Warsaw Aviation guarantees 30 hours’ employment a month, but also that it can “cancel or 
modify” pilots’ schedules with a day’s notice. 
While it will give pilots three weeks’ notice of their schedules, “the notice period may vary at Warsaw Aviation’s 
discretion” without consulting the pilots.
One Poland-based pilot said the new contracts, with their apparent transfer of liability to pilots in certain 
circumstances, had soured his view of Ryanair.
“I’m looking to get out of the company. I need to be more secure . . . It’s not about the money, I want a work-life 
balance and to be employed in a different company I feel more respect for.”
Ryanair has been engaged in negotiations with its unions since agreeing to recognise them in late 2017 after a 
rostering failure and staff shortage led to thousands of cancellations.
Paulo Conceicao, secretary of the new CWR union in Poland, which represents about 300 of the 400 Ryanair cabin 
crew in the country, said that the situation was taking a heavy toll on staff.
“Psychologically, it’s a huge impact. People are under stress. We’re talking about people with two children, with 
mortgages and so on. People don’t sleep at night, they have problems, they’re afraid of losing their jobs,” he said.
Under Polish law, self-employed workers cannot join a union, and Mr Conceicao said that cabin crew saw this as 
one of Ryanair’s motivating factors. “Obviously this leaves the worker stripped from all their social rights, stripped 
from any possibility of representation and so on. It’s basically creating precarious work conditions.” 
Mr Conceicao said that CWR had not ruled out strikes, but that the process of arranging industrial action in Poland 
was slow.
Philip von Schöppenthau, secretary-general of the European Cockpit Association, which represents more than 
38,000 pilots, said Ryanair’s move was “a concerning example” of “bogus self-employment”.
In a statement responding to detailed questions from the Financial Times, Ryanair said: “Ryanair has offered its 
cabin crew based in Poland transfer opportunities in Ryanair’s UK and German bases, with no change to 
employment contracts of these cabin crew.
“Ryanair Sun continues to expand its Polish flights in winter 2018. It is actively recruiting pilots and cabin crew, both 
in the Polish market and abroad, on exactly the same contracts that LOT [Poland’s national airline] has been 
offering its crew over the past few years.”
However, Poland’s National Labour Inspectorate has recommended that people providing services to LOT through 
self-employment contracts should be employed on the same basis as people on full employment contracts at the 
company.
The inspectorate is also investigating Ryanair Sun and Warsaw Aviation over the form under which staff are 
employed, a spokeswoman said.
Ryanair turns Polish pilots into precarious workers
The issue plays into the bigger debate about the rights of workers in the gig economy; British courts are currently 
considering whether someone who works principally for a company such as a ride-hailing app can be considered 
self-employed or a worker with more rights.
Under their new contracts, which run for five years from 2019, Mr von Schöppenthau said pilots “will be flying for 
Ryanair Sun, under instruction of Ryanair Sun, getting schedules from Ryanair Sun and wearing uniforms of 
Ryanair Sun — but are supposed to be self-employed”. 
Mr von Schöppenthau said Ryanair wanted “maximum flexibility” to end pilots’ contracts or not to give them flight 
hours, which amounted to the same thing, and could even “offload liability in the case of an accident”.
As contractors, pilots have to pay their own tax and social security contributions and do not receive any sick pay, 
relieving Ryanair of these obligations. 
On a pilots’ forum, one person said: “It’s a shocking attempt at [Ryanair] to contractor-ise an entire country. All pilots 
and [cabin crew] must become . . . agency workers with no pension/sick/holiday pay.” 
Load-Date: November 2, 2018
End of Document
Smart customer service hinges on intelligent help
Smart customer service hinges on intelligent help
 
FT.com
November 1, 2018 Thursday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 722 words
Byline: Jonathan Margolis
Body
Last month, in a hurry, I bought a Copenhagen to London ticket on Ryanair — for £13 — only to find, in the 
confusing blizzard of offers and add-ons, I had given the wrong date and had shown up at the airport exactly a 
month early.
My grandmother’s aphorism, “what is cheap is dear”, came to mind as I paid £277 to get on the correct flight.
Last week, however, I made a travel mistake which raised a more interesting issue than careless clicking.
I needed to get to New York at short notice. Amid the £700-plus fares I saw one for £368 with Air Canada, with a 
two-hour stopover in Toronto and the added bonus of beating the queues by clearing US immigration while there. 
I bought the ticket and checked in online 24 hours ahead, when I was asked for my Canadian permanent residency 
number. I went back to see if I had mistakenly identified myself as living in Canada, but I had not. I could not 
proceed, so was obliged to abandon the process and sort it out at Heathrow the next day.
Irritated, I tweeted the airline to ask about this apparent glitch. Back came a 100-word reply from “Robyn”, which 
advised “speaking with a local embassy or consulate” and concluding that “ultimately it is the responsibility of the 
customer to ensure proper documentation is obtained before travel”.
I replied that this was not an answer to my question. When Robyn responded with the exact same, clearly cut-and-
pasted answer, I thought this must be an  artificial intelligence-driven bot and I might as well argue with my washing 
Smart customer service hinges on intelligent help
machine. When I berated Robyn for the cut-and-paste responses, there was no response. Standard confrontation 
avoidance programming, I thought. 
The bot’s dim-witted and useless response seemed to vindicate much of what I have been saying about artificial 
intelligence being hugely over-hyped. Has any of us dealt with one of these wretched programmes and been 
impressed? I doubt it.
I hit the same obstacle at the automated check-in booth at Heathrow, and went to speak to an actual human at the 
Air Canada desk. “You need a Canadian visa,” the agent said. “But I’m there less than two hours and won’t be 
leaving the airport,” I said.
“You still need a visa. You may just have time to apply if you have a smartphone and you’re quick.” 
I suggested that it might be a good idea to mention this on the airline’s website. “It’s on page two of the check-in 
pages” the agent replied. “People do miss it. But ultimately it’s the responsibility of the customer to have the proper 
documentation.”
I pointed out that even China and Russia let you transit without a visa, but I got the impression she had been 
through this routine before.
Ten minutes, plus C$7 later, I was legal to spend 100 minutes in Toronto Pearson International airport.
Later, I thought it might be entertaining to test the bot’s programming. “Hi, Robyn,” I tweeted, “I’m curious. When we 
were in contact yesterday, were you aware that the problem I was having — a request for my Canadian residency, 
which I don’t have because I’m British — was because you need a visa for even a two-hour stopover in Canada?”
Robyn had now become “Leo”. Nice touch, I thought, to humanise the interaction. But the cut-and-paste answer 
was the same as the previous two.
I tried another angle. “May I ask, are you guys human or AI?” There was no response. 
Later, in the delightfully short US immigration line in Toronto (where I discovered some Brits had been made to buy 
Canadian visas, others not) I asked “Leo” again if he/she is human or robot. “We are human,” came the reply.
I have to accept this. Leo’s reply had a near-plaintive quality which convinced me it was a human. And that set me 
thinking that perhaps my own paradigm — that it will always be possible in our AI future to detect encounters with 
robots — is faulty.
Could it be that well-programmed, tireless, emotionless AI systems will, before long, do their job better than poorly 
trained, unmotivated, over-worked, or even lazy human operatives?
I experienced humans acting similarly to an AI system, but while bots’ help may not be great now, it is bound to 
improve. I am not sure there will be a similar incremental development in humans. 
Computers may become more patient, better informed and better focused to help us, even in soft-skill roles such as 
customer service. 
Discuss — with your nearest human.
 @TheFutureCritic
Load-Date: November 4, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair shareholder reignites calls to replace chairman
Ryanair shareholder reignites calls to replace chairman
 
FT.com
October 28, 2018 Sunday 5:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 513 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
A significant shareholder in Ryanair has demanded that the low-cost carrier replace its chairman, reigniting a row 
the company hoped had been put to bed just over a month ago.
The Local Authority Pension Fund Forum, whose members own about 1 per cent of Ryanair, said it would file 
resolutions at Ryanair’s next annual meeting in September 2019, asking the airline to replace chairman David 
Bonderman and explain how it is planning for chief executive Michael O’Leary’s succession.
At the most recent annual meeting in September, almost 30 per cent of shareholders — including LAPFF’s 
members — voted against the re-election of Mr Bonderman, who has been in post for 22 years and who co-founded 
private equity business TPG. Mr O’Leary has been chief executive since 1994.
The LAPFF said that a profit warning at the start of October “confirmed LAPFF’s view that poor employment 
practices and weak corporate governance are not sustainable in the long run”. It welcomed reassurance of progress 
on industrial relations but said: “Ryanair needs a new chairman to lead change at the company and ensure its 
business model is sustainable.”
Ryanair said: “Ryanair shareholders recently passed all AGM resolutions by a large majority, including the 
nomination of directors and chairman. They appreciate how fortunate we are to have an outstanding chairman like 
David Bonderman guide the board and the airline.”
Ryanair shareholder reignites calls to replace chairman
Last week Ryanair reported a 9 per cent fall in pre-tax profit to €1.3bn in the six months to the end of September. At 
the same time, it garnered negative publicity after cabin crew failed to remove a male passenger on a flight from 
Barcelona who racially abused a black woman.
The sizeable vote against Mr Bonderman contradicted the prediction of Mr O’Leary, who at a press conference in 
September had said he expected a maximum rebellion of 20 per cent.
Mr O’Leary had said he hoped Mr Bonderman would be re-elected in 2019, but added: “There is a succession plan 
in place and that will be revealed in the next year or two . . . There’s no fixed date, there’s no fixed names.”
One senior figure with knowledge of Ryanair’s internal affairs said: “It wouldn’t have been lost on Bonderman or 
anybody that the vote went that way . . . We’d prefer that it was managed, rather than he was pushed.”
Mr O’Leary himself is keeping his position flexible: in 2019, his five-year contract comes to an end and he has said 
he would prefer a rolling annual contract, while the board wants another five-year one.
Union members’ strikes, compensation costs and the high price of oil led the airline to issue a profit warning at the 
start of October, cutting its full-year forecast from €1.25bn-€1.35bn to €1.1bn-€1.2bn.
Ryanair has suffered a summer of strikes across Europe, including five days by Irish pilots and the two days of co-
ordinated pan-European action by cabin crew.
The airline agreed to recognise unions in late 2017 following a rostering failure that caused it to cancel thousands of 
flights, but has struggled to reach terms with many of its unions.
Additional reporting by Arthur Beesley
Load-Date: October 29, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair rejects claim it did not apologise to victim of racism
Ryanair rejects claim it did not apologise to victim of racism
 
FT.com
October 26, 2018 Friday 9:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 462 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair has issued a statement to clarify its response to an incident in which a woman was racially 
abused on one of its flights, and accused the daughter of the victim of making an “untrue” claim about whether the 
airline made an apology.
Ryanair also implied its cabin crew had not understood the seriousness of the incident at the time, which happened 
while passengers were boarding a flight from Barcelona to Stansted last Friday.
In a statement, Ryanair said it “immediately wrote . . . to the female passenger at 11am on Sunday morning, 
apologising sincerely for what happened on board the aircraft . . . We also invited the passenger to contact the 
airline if they wished to discuss the matter further. The claim made in the media in recent days, that Ryanair did not 
contact or apologise to the female passenger, is untrue.”
Carol Gayle, daughter of victim Delsie Gayle,  said in the days after the incident: “Nobody has apologised. We’ve 
not had nothing. We just want an open apology from Ryanair.”
However, on Friday Ryanair made public copies of a letter and an email that it said had been sent on Sunday 
morning from the airline’s customer disruptions manager to Ms Gayle: “On behalf of Ryanair, may I sincerely 
apologise for what happened on board our aircraft,” the letter said.
Ryanair rejects claim it did not apologise to victim of racism
Ryanair also said it only became aware of  a video of the incident — in which a man identified as David Mesher 
called Mrs Gayle “an ugly black bastard” — late on Saturday, October 20, “when it gained widespread coverage on 
social media.” The airline said it reported the incident to the police at 9am the next morning.
It implied its cabin crew had not understood the seriousness of the incident at the time: “While these events were 
videoed by another passenger on a mobile phone, this video was not shown to cabin crew until after landing in 
London Stansted.” 
Mr Mesher spoke to media on Friday morning, saying he was “not a racist person by any means” and apologising 
for Mrs Gayle’s distress. He claimed it was “just a fit of temper at the time”.
The airline said: “Ryanair’s Spanish cabin crew were aware of an argument between these two passengers during 
the boarding process, but were not aware of, as they were not present when, racist comments that were made by 
the male passenger towards the female passenger.”
Robin Kiely, head of communications at Ryanair, said the airline had “treated [the incident] with the urgency and 
seriousness it warranted”.
“We trust that this statement will address the inaccurate media coverage of this incident over recent days, and that 
the legal rights of both passengers will be respected, while the police services in Essex and Barcelona conduct their 
investigation of this matter, with Ryanair’s full co-operation and assistance.”
Load-Date: October 27, 2018
End of Document
Investors Chronicle: Bloomsbury, Ryanair , Metro Bank
Investors Chronicle: Bloomsbury, Ryanair, Metro Bank
 
FT.com
October 26, 2018 Friday 5:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1288 words
Byline: Investors Chronicle reporters
Body
Buy: Bloomsbury (BMY)
Management’s “bigger Bloomsbury” strategy is already making headway which could yet prompt further broker 
upgrades, writes Megan Boxall.
It’s rare to see adult books drive revenue growth at Bloomsbury — the publisher normally relies on its larger 
children’s division (and the enduring popularity of Harry Potter) for its momentum. 
Chief executive Nigel Newton thinks new management and a strong array of best-selling titles were the driving force 
behind the 22 per cent increase in adult consumer revenues. The non-consumer division has also outpaced 
children’s books thanks partly to the recent acquisition of IB Tauris which is expected to add £3.5m of revenue this 
year.
Not that there’s anything to worry about in the children’s division. True, the absence of new titles from fantasy 
author Sarah J Maas and a slowdown in the growth reported by Harry Potter left first-half revenues flat on 2017 at 
£31m, but it is the second six months of the year that are important to this division. 
The back-to-school rush in October and pre-Christmas present buying spree are the main periods of sales at 
Bloomsbury and Mr Newton reassures that the second half will see the launch of “an exciting list of titles to maintain 
confidence in the outlook”.
Investors Chronicle: Bloomsbury, Ryanair , Metro Bank
Numis said first-half figures were slightly above expectations and confirmed it may yet upgrade its forecasts for the 
year to February 2019. For now, the broker expects pre-tax profits and earnings per share at £14.1m and 14.2p 
respectively (from £13.2m and 13.9p in 2018).
Hold: Ryanair (RYA)
If the oil price rises, or if average fares fall further, more capacity cuts look likely — even if the €540m returned to 
shareholders via share buybacks hints at a more optimistic tone, writes Julia Faurschou.
It was a turbulent first half for Ryanair following ongoing pilot disputes and air traffic controller strikes in continental 
Europe. In early October, management warned pre-tax profits would land between €1.1bn (£97m) and €1.2bn — a 
12 per cent downgrade on previous expectations. 
Investors were pleasantly surprised, then, that this figure actually came to €1.3bn, with the shares up about 5 per 
cent on results day. Passenger numbers increased by 6 per cent to 76.6m, with load factor maintained at 96 per 
cent, although the average fare fell 3 per cent to under €46.
Improvements in ancillary revenue, up nearly a third during the period to €1.3bn, were offset by higher fuel, staff 
and compensation costs. Although more than 100 new routes were added to the summer 2018 season, weaker 
fares and higher oil prices forced the airline to trim winter capacity by 1 per cent. Even so, management still expects 
traffic numbers to increase to around 141m by the end of the financial year, boosted by Ryanair’s 75 per cent stake 
in Austrian airline Laudamotion.
Analysts at UBS expect earnings per share of 970 cents during the year to March 2019, compared with 1,200 cents 
in full-year 2018.
While higher fuel prices added to first-half costs, 90 per cent of Ryanair’s fuel needs for the next 12 months are 
hedged at $68 per barrel — well below the $85 spot price. Still, we are wary of recent volatility to turn bullish just 
yet, especially when the shares look expensive compared with their historical two-year trading average and the 
wider sector.
Sell: Metro Bank (MTRO)
Metro Bank has grown fast, but not as fast as forecasts, and net interest margins have come in below expectations, 
contracting from 1.97 per cent to 1.82 per cent as competition in the mortgage market increases, writes Jonas 
Crosland. 
Metro Bank passed the 1.5m customer mark in the nine months to 30 September, and also delivered a 38 per cent 
increase in deposits to £14.8bn, while the loan book jumped 52 per cent to £13.1bn. Underlying pre-tax profits 
doubled to £39.2m, and the bank now operates from 60 branches. But investors have taken fright at margin 
weakness.
Deposits from business and commercial customers showed the highest growth rates and now account for more 
than half of all deposits. Costs of deposits rose from 59 basis points in the second quarter to 61 in the third quarter, 
reflecting the increase in the Bank of England’s base rate and the subsequent interest paid to depositors with 
variable rate accounts.
The common equity tier one ratio rose by 300 basis points to 15.7 per cent, but only after completion of a £30m 
equity raise in July, although even without this it would have remained above the tier one regulatory minimum of 9.7 
per cent.
The shares were down more than 6 per cent on the latest numbers, leaving the shares priced at 1.9 times forecast 
tangible book value. With margins slipping and the return on equity (RoE) standing at 3.6 per cent, the 2020 RoE 
target of 11.5 per is beginning to look more of a stretch.
Chris Dillow: When good times lead to bad
Investors Chronicle: Bloomsbury, Ryanair , Metro Bank
Despite their recent wobble, US shares have enjoyed a fantastic run: the S&P 500 has risen 60 per cent in the past 
five years. This alone should worry investors a little.
I say so simply because history warns us that good five-year periods tend more often than not to lead to bad ones 
in the following five years, and vice versa. If we take five-year periods ending in December 2017 (so we ignore 
overlapping periods), the correlation between changes in the S&P 500 adjusted for inflation in one period and those 
in the next has been minus 0.26 since data began in 1870. This pattern has been especially obvious in recent 
years. The market did well in the five years to 1997; fell in the next five; rose between 2002 and 2007; fell between 
2007 and 2012; but rose strongly thereafter.
We see a similar pattern in the UK. The Bank of England has share price data going back to 1700. If we look at 
non-overlapping five-year periods (from 1702, 1707 and so on) the correlation between price changes in one period 
and those the next has been minus 0.15.
This contradicts efficient market theory. This tells us that past returns should not help predict future ones, so our 
correlations should be zero.
Why might this be? In a new book, A Crisis of Beliefs, Nicola Gennaioli and Andrei Shleifer suggest that investors 
extrapolate recent market conditions into the future: “they are excessively optimistic about the future in good times 
and excessively pessimistic in bad times”. This means that in good times prices rise too far and in bad ones they fall 
too much. This gives us a negative correlation between price changes in one five-year period and in the next.
However, the investor who waits for academics’ levels of statistical significance will do very little, except hold tracker 
funds and perhaps momentum and defensive ones, and will have no strong views about the future. For investors, 
70-30 bets are often good enough: they have to be.
Also, there’s a reason why the correlations are small. It’s that sometimes, macroeconomic conditions have justified 
long bull markets. In the 50s and 60s, for example, share prices continued to rise because investors learned that in 
the golden age of capitalism high profits and low inflation could last a long time.
Which poses the question: will macroeconomic and political circumstances really remain favourable for shares? Will 
the next five years really give us surprisingly low bond yields and rising profits as the last five have? If they don’t, 
the tendency for shares to fall because investors have overreacted to good times will reassert itself. In this sense, 
the medium-term outlook for the market is unusually risky.
Chris Dillow is an economics commentator for Investors Chronicle
The Financial Times and its journalism, including Investors Chronicle content, are subject to a self-regulation 
regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice:  FT.com/editorialcode
Load-Date: October 26, 2018
End of Document
LSE to go ahead with Saudi investment event
LSE to go ahead with Saudi investment event
 
FT.com
October 26, 2018 Friday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 600 words
Byline: Hannah Murphy
Body
LSE: charm offensive
When does a charm offensive become a bit offensive? City Insider can reveal that the London Stock Exchange 
plans to proceed with an “Investing in Saudi Arabia” breakfast event on Tuesday — in spite of mounting 
international anger over the alleged murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. 
Saudi officials claim Khashoggi was killed by rogue operatives. But numerous high profile international guests 
spurned last week’s “ Davos in the Desert” investment conference in protest. Not so at the LSE. For months, the 
group has cosied up to Saudi officials in hope of winning the whopping proposed stock market listing of state oil 
company Saudi Aramco. Separately, the Gulf kingdom was added to the stock exchange’s FTSE emerging markets 
index earlier this year. 
Now, an LSE spokesperson has confirmed that an “educational briefing” for potential investors will go ahead as 
planned next week. A delegation of Saudi grandees is expected to attend, including Mohammed El Kuwaiz, 
chairman of the Capital Markets Authority and Khalid Al Hussan, chief of the stock exchange. Representatives from 
HSBC Saudi, NCB Capital Saudi, Riyad Capital and Jadwa Investments may also be present. Details of the event 
are not currently available on the LSE’s website.
Stobart Group: excess baggage 
LSE to go ahead with Saudi investment event
Further developments this week in Stobart Group’s loud boardroom bust-up with Andrew Tinkler, the former CEO 
who can’t quite let go. Earlier in the year, the infrastructure group ousted Tinkler from its board and said it would 
issue legal proceedings against him for “breach of fiduciary duty”.
It may now be feeling a bit of firer’s remorse. As part of a counterclaim for wrongful dismissal, Tinkler has 
persuaded a court to force Stobart to publish sensitive information including internal texts and emails related to his 
defenestration. Tinkler says we will also see details of a tidy cash bonus of as much as £18m to be paid to current 
boss Warwick Brady. To date, this has not been disclosed to shareholders. The bumper payout will come to fruition 
if — among other things — Ryanair’s residency from 2019 at Stobart’s Southend airport takes off. Brady best hope 
his bonus does not suffer the fate as Ryanair customers when pilots are on strike: cancellation. Stobart meanwhile 
said it was happy to provide details of the bonus schemes and that it was “confident of winning the case”.
Zeus Capital: neighbourly love
It is not much fun working in the small world of small-cap brokers at the moment. Rumours of consolidation and job 
cuts are becoming a reality as the EU’s much-loathed Mifid II markets rules begin to bite. But Alex Davies and Hugh 
Kingsmill Moore, two salespeople who parted ways with broker Zeus Capital this summer, have set aside concern 
that the City is “overbroked” to set up their own boutique outfit, Leander Capital Partners. In doing so, they have 
become the literal new kids on the block: they are based on the first floor of 10 Old Burlington Street, near Piccadilly 
Circus. Awkwardly, their former employer is just above on the fourth floor.
Deutsche Bank: death by committee
When embattled Deutsche Bank was informed by its regulator that a proliferation of committees had made its 
decision-making processes too slow and cumbersome, the German lender found a novel way to address the 
problem: replace them with something else with a different name, of course. Now staff find themselves attending 
“councils” or “forums,” both of which have to review any proposal before it can then advance to the next stage. One 
senior manager quipped: “It’s death by committee. Sorry, I meant forum.”
Load-Date: October 28, 2018
End of Document
Two major Flybe shareholders reduce their stakes
Two major Flybe shareholders reduce their stakes
 
FT.com
October 25, 2018 Thursday 4:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 432 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Two of the top five shareholders in UK low-cost airline Flybe have reduced their stakes since last week when the 
company announced a full-year profit warning that caused a 40 per cent drop in the share price.
Aberforth Partners, an Edinburgh-based investment firm with £2.4bn under management, went from a 15.9 per cent 
holding to 13.9 per cent this week, according to regulatory filings. This relates to Aberforth’s direct holding with 
voting rights. It holds more shares indirectly.
A second shareholder also reduced its position via Swiss bank UBS this week, from 9.4 to 8.2 per cent, according 
to further filings. UBS has a large shareholding on behalf on Pelham Capital Management, a hedge fund that was 
listed in the 2018 annual report as Flybe’s fourth-biggest shareholder. This holding had increased to 9.4 per cent 
only in September.
Aberforth declined to answer questions and Pelham could not be reached for comment.
Late on Thursday afternoon, the Wellcome Trust, a wealthy biomedical charity and top ten shareholder, said it had 
cut its stake in Flybe from 6.2 to 5.7 per cent
Flybe said it could not comment on investors’ decisions but said: “Flybe’s strategy is to reduce capacity and focus 
on the most popular routes and this has delivered higher load factors and increased revenue per seat. Alongside 
this, we are reviewing further capacity and cost saving measures and will be updating on these at our interim results 
in November.”
Two major Flybe shareholders reduce their stakes
Flybe’s shares, which rose 10 per cent by mid-afternoon trading on Thursday, are down 60 per cent on a year ago.
Flybe blamed weaker sterling and high fuel prices for its profit warning and said it would now make a pre-tax loss of 
about £22m, against market expectations of a £3.5m loss, though there was some mitigation in the form of the 
cancellation of a £10m provision made in previous accounts. Last year, the company lost £19.2m.
Flybe’s strategy has increased numbers on each flight but has not improved yield per passenger. While in the first 
half of the year, load factor for flights increased eight percentage points to 84 per cent, yield was down 2 per cent.
At the time, Christine Ourmières-Widener, chief executive, said Flybe was “seeing a softening in the market” adding 
that the company was reviewing “further capacity and cost-saving measures”.
Earlier in October, Ryanair cut its full-year profit guidance from €1.25bn-€1.35bn to €1.1bn-€1.2bn and warned that 
the figure might fall further still, blaming staff strikes, resulting compensation costs and the high price of oil.
The company will publish its half-year results on November 14.
Load-Date: October 25, 2018
End of Document
Southend airport owner Stobart Group reports widening losses
Southend airport owner Stobart Group reports widening losses
 
FT.com
October 24, 2018 Wednesday 3:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 571 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Stobart Group’s pre-tax loss worsened by almost half to £17.5m in the six months to the end of August, capping a 
difficult period featuring a boardroom battle and a shareholder revolt against the chairman.
Warwick Brady, chief executive of the infrastructure mini-conglomerate that owns Southend airport, on Wednesday 
hailed “strong commercial progress” in aviation and energy and added that the campaign against the chairman by 
founder Andrew Tinkler was “a lot of noise, which is annoying, but we’re not going to let the noise of the founder 
distract us from driving this business forward”.
Revenue at Stobart increased 21 per cent to £151m in the six-month period. However, this included £15.7m from its 
Flybe franchise aviation operation, which is ending after rivals easyJet and Ryanair agreed to expand their rosters 
at Southend.
Ryanair will be basing three aeroplanes at London Southend from 2019, representing an investment of $300m and 
more than 55 flights a week. Mr Brady said the commercial terms of the deal with Ryanair reflected “the scarcity of 
peak slots. Ryanair get more aeroplanes in London and we’re going to get a huge amount of footfall through that 
airport.”
Stobart’s rail and civil engineering division swung from a £900,000 profit in 2017 to a £6m loss this year after 
downgrading the recorded performance of existing contracts. The unit’s financial director was also replaced.
Southend airport owner Stobart Group reports widening losses
Chief operating officer Nick Dilworth said the rail management team had undertaken “a deep dive” into its contracts: 
“The way in which we’ve taken a prudent view [is] to recognise any suggested losses immediately and effectively 
defer any positive variances.” He said he expected that position to recover.
The company’s net debt more than doubled from £36.6m to £75.6m between February and August 2018, largely 
thanks to an extended credit facility “to mitigate liquidity risk” for the next four years.
Stobart shares fell as much as 8 per cent before recovering to sit 2 per cent lower at 220p by late afternoon in 
London. 
The group’s troubles became public this year after former chief executive Mr Tinkler launched a campaign to unseat 
chairman Iain Ferguson and replace him with retail entrepreneur Philip Day.
Mr Tinkler was fired as a director in June after his offensive and Stobart said at the time that it was issuing legal 
proceedings against him, alleging “breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty”. Mr Tinkler then launched 
defamation proceedings against Stobart’s board.
The case against Mr Tinkler is due to be heard in court next month. Mr Brady denied the affair had harmed 
Stobart’s operations and said: “We’re not going to let the two-week court case distract the whole business.”
At a fractious annual meeting in Guernsey in July, 51.2 per cent of shareholders voted in favour of Mr Ferguson’s 
re-election. Several shareholders in the room had directly called on him to stand down.
Stobart has now agreed to look for a new chairman, but Mr Brady declined to name potential candidates.
The company’s infrastructure division includes Carlisle airport, whose opening for commercial flights was delayed 
from September to spring 2019. Mr Brady called the original deadline “very aggressive” and said the company had 
missed it because construction, which included a new terminal and office complex and revamped runway, had run 
over and because the company had not been able to train air traffic controllers on time.
Load-Date: October 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair caps rough summer with profit fall
Ryanair caps rough summer with profit fall
 
FT.com
October 22, 2018 Monday 5:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 517 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost carrier  Ryanair reported a 9 per cent fall in pre-tax profit to €1.3bn in the six months to the end of 
September, capping a bad summer for the airline.
Over the weekend, it became embroiled in a row for failing to remove a male passenger on a flight from Barcelona 
who racially abused a black woman.
In the six month period, average Ryanair fares fell 3 per cent, in line with a recent profit warning, and unit costs rose 
10 per cent amid higher fuel prices and a jump of a third in staff costs. Pilots have received a 20 per cent pay 
increase.
However, favourable news about revenue, combined with post-tax profit for the second quarter that was slightly 
ahead of consensus, sent Ryanair’s shares up 4.9 per cent by lunchtime.
Despite the pay rise for pilots, Ryanair has been hit by industrial action as it negotiated collective labour 
agreements with unions for the first time, including five days by Irish pilots and the two days of co-ordinated pan-
European action by cabin crew. It has also suffered, like its competitors, from strikes by air traffic controllers.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary said: “While we hope to finalise more union agreements in the coming months, we 
cannot rule out occasional industrial action, but we expect their impact to be very limited.” He referred to the air 
traffic problems as “the worst summer of ATC disruptions on record”.
Ryanair caps rough summer with profit fall
Union members’ strikes, compensation costs and the high price of oil led the airline to issue a profit warning at the 
start of October, cutting its full-year forecast from €1.25bn-€1.35bn to €1.1bn-€1.2bn.
As part of the warning, Ryanair announced the closure or downsizing of three bases and the shrinking of its winter 
capacity. Mr O’Leary said he could not “rule out further capacity cuts or base closures . . . if oil prices rise or air 
fares fall further”.
Fuel and oil increased costs by 22 per cent to €1.3bn, despite Ryanair being heavily hedged. The airline said it was 
90 per cent hedged for the next year at $68 a barrel, “well below current spot prices of close to $85 a barrel”.
The higher oil price could ultimately benefit Ryanair, Alex Paterson, analyst at Investec, suggested: “While they said 
there’ll be more bad news before good, the bad news will put pressure on the less well-capitalised, the more 
marginal airlines, which might lead to further consolidation, which would be good news.” Sharply accelerating winter 
capacity growth is driving down fares across the industry; airline failures slow it down.
Ancillary revenue, which is everything except the ticket price, increased 27 per cent to €1.3bn, helping total revenue 
to rise 8 per cent to €4.8bn. “Key drivers of this growth were improved conversion of priority boarding and reserved 
seating,” Mr O’Leary said.
The male passenger in the racist abuse incident has not been publicly identified and has not responded to what 
happened. Ryanair said it had reported the incident to the police in Essex. “As this is now a police matter, we 
cannot comment further,” it added. It had previously stated that it would not tolerate “unruly behaviour” on its 
aircraft. 
Load-Date: October 23, 2018
End of Document
Opening Quote: Debs wants to take off, Ryanair profit grounded
Opening Quote: Debs wants to take off, Ryanair profit grounded
 
FT.com
October 22, 2018 Monday 7:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1122 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Debenhams store closures?
Last year, Debenhams was still saying all but one of its 166 UK stores were profitable. Last week, Debenhams chief 
executive Sergio Bucher wrote: “Almost all of our 166 UK stores are profitable today.” In the last 24 hours, however, 
Debenhams has been reported to be considering closing a third of those 166 stores. 
As department store storylines go, this one appears to be changing as fast as the movie version of 1970s retail 
sitcom ‘Are You Being Served?’ (holidaying staff of men’s and women’s outfitters departments suddenly become 
embroiled in European military coup d’état through a series of mistranslations and double entendres — go on, its  
only 91 minutes and you’ll thank me).
But that is what the Mail on Sunday has just reported — the possible store closures, I mean, not the peaceful coup. 
And, if anything, it would seem to make more sense than those earlier scripts about profitability. How can a 
department store even have 166 outlets these days, let alone profitable ones — especially given all the store 
closures by House of Fraser, Homebase, Mothercare, New Look and Carpetright, to name but five.
According to the newspaper, Debenhams has identified around a third of its 166 stores for possible closure, 
decided it must write down several hundred million pounds’ of goodwill in its accounts, and cut its dividend to zero.
Not all of this is news, though. Last month, shares in the retail group fell 16 per cent on news it had instructed 
adviser KPMG to draw up turnround plans that could involve store closures. Debenhams has also been trying to 
reformat and shrink its store footprint for some time. It had already identified 30 stores that could be resized and 
was in negotiations with landlords. And analysts had forecast the scrapping of the dividend, to save around £30m. 
Opening Quote: Debs wants to take off, Ryanair profit grounded
What has perhaps changed is the speed at which the plot is unfolding. After its third profit warning of 2018 in the 
summer, Debenhams announced a speeding up of its cost cutting. Yesterday the Mail on Sunday said managers 
were now weighing up proposals to save £70m by reducing capital expenditure.
Key numbers:
•
£30m saving from dividend
•
£70m reported saving on capital expenditure
Bottom line: Debenhams had already warned that profits will fall to £33m in its full-year results, which are due on 
Thursday. That is down from a range of £35m to £40m outlined in its June profit warning, and down from previous 
guidance of £50m.
As the City expected? The last Debenhams profit warning in June confirmed a guidance range of £35m-40m, and 
Peel Hunt analysts said: “We have cut dividend forecasts to zero assuming that capex will be prioritised over 
shareholder distributions.”
What was said: In a letter to Estates Gazette quoted by the Mail on Sunday, chief executive Sergio Bucher said, 
“After our people, property is our biggest cost. And, right now, it is our biggest challenge. While almost all of our 166 
UK stores are profitable today, extrapolate current market trends three to five years forward and that picture is 
going to change.”
OQ verdict: As in ‘Are You Being Served?’, we could see this punchline coming but that doesn’t make it any less 
cringe-inducing. Debenhams has been trying to work around expensive, long ‘cornerstone’ leases for some time. 
But as one City analyst quoted by the Mail on Sunday said: “You can't just walk away from 50 stores. You still have 
to pay the rent or pay off the leases. Can they afford to do that? Is there a rescue rights issue coming? Or, down the 
line, a rights issues combined with a Company Voluntary Agreement?”
Ryanair half-year results
Had the staff of TV’s Grace Brothers department store been going on holiday today, they would surely have flown 
Ryanair (they actually flew on its low-cost predecessor Dan-Air which was still operating 1950s Comet jets in the 
1970s). 
But today Ryanair confirmed what it had told us three weeks ago: not enough people were flying on its Boeing 
737s, so profit has fallen. At the beginning of the month, chief executive Michael O’Leary said strikes by pilots and 
cabin crew in five countries this summer had hit passenger numbers, yields and future airfares.
Today, though, the effect was not quite as bad as feared. Ryanair's warning said profit would fall from a range of 
€1.25bn to €1.35bn to €1.1bn to €1.2bn — sending its shares down 11 per cent to €11.67, almost a three-year low. 
In reality, pre-tax profit was down 9 per cent to €1.3bn in the six months to the end of September.
Still, somehow, Ryanair is able to keep increasing its ancillary revenue, which are all those extras it charges for 
carrying luggage, sitting in a seat and having something to eat. They rose 27 per cent to €1.3bn, helping total 
revenue rise 8 per cent to €4.8bn.
Key numbers:
•
Average fares down 3 per cent
•
Unit costs up 10 per cent amid higher fuel prices
•
Staff costs up a third
•
Pilot pay rise 20 per cent
Bottom line: Pre-tax profit down 9 per cent.
Opening Quote: Debs wants to take off, Ryanair profit grounded
As the City expected: Not quite as bad. On October 1, Ryanair said union members’ strikes, flight cancellation 
compensation and the high price of oil would cap pre-tax profit at €1.2bn.
What was said: Mr O’Leary said he could not “rule out further capacity cuts or base closures in Ryanair if oil prices 
rise or airfares fall further.”
OQ verdict: These numbers confirm what the profit warning told us: Ryanair has transformed itself from a very low-
cost airline to a high-cost airline. While some of the cut to profit is down to costs it cannot control — air traffic control 
disruption and the oil price — its pilot disputes appear all its own making. 
With regard to the oil price, Ryanair said it was still 90 per cent hedged for the next year at $68 a barrel, “well below 
current spot prices of close to $85 a barrel”. But it still looks far too like all the other airlines it used to undercut so 
easily. Its profit warning included several other factors common to all airlines: staff costs, fuel prices, capacity and 
weaker fares.
Today’s Small Talk column by Kate Burgess focuses on Patisserie Valerie and tax breaks for companies on the 
Alternative Investment Market:
The recent near-death experience of Patisserie Valerie and collapse of Conviviality, the bargain booze business, 
might make Chancellor Phil Hammond think again about all those rich tax breaks attached to shares on Aim, 
London’s junior market. Both were Aim darlings until Conviviality found a £30m unpaid tax bill, forcing it into 
administration in March, and Patisserie Valerie uncovered a similar-sized hole in its accounts this month. 
Read the rest of the column here. 
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can receive it by 
email at 8am every morning by  signing up here.
Load-Date: October 22, 2018
End of Document
Gatwick chief warns of more industry turbulence
Gatwick chief warns of more industry turbulence
 
FT.com
October 22, 2018 Monday 1:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 466 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of Gatwick, the UK’s second busiest airport, has said he expects some airlines to fall into 
bankruptcy this winter following a number of recent failures.
“You will have a small number of airline failures,” Stewart Wingate told the Financial Times, adding that he did not 
anticipate any major airlines would collapse
Gatwick experienced the failure of a major airline in 2017 when the UK’s Monarch went into administration. Last 
week, a small Cyprus-based carrier Cobalt Air failed.
Almost three-quarters of Gatwick’s flights are provided by three airlines — easyJet, BA and Norwegian — with the 
rest split between more than 50 carriers. Cobalt Air had about 500 flights from Gatwick this summer.
The Gatwick chief said Monarch’s failure had not ultimately hurt Gatwick: “Our second-largest carrier, 
BA . . . bought the full portfolio of Monarch slots. We envisage they’ll now start to use those slots for long-haul flying 
in the years ahead.” Industry reports suggested BA paid £60m for the slots, not all of which it was able to use 
immediately.
Several other European airlines have failed in the past two years, including Air Berlin and Alitalia in 2017. Latvia’s 
Primera Air, Small Planet in Germany and Belgium’s VLM have all collapsed in the past couple of months.
Gatwick chief warns of more industry turbulence
Other airlines have issued profit warnings. Last week, the UK’s Flybe said it would make a full-year pre-tax loss of 
about £22m, against market expectations of a £3.5m loss, which caused its market value to fall more than 40 per 
cent in a day.
Earlier this month, Ryanair cut its full-year profit guidance from €1.25bn-€1.35bn to €1.1bn-€1.2bn and warned that 
the final figure might fall further still, blaming staff strikes, resulting compensation costs, and the high price of oil. 
The cost of jet fuel had risen to $96 a barrel by mid-October, up 39 per cent on a year ago.
When Primera announced its bankruptcy, its board cited “the difficult environment airlines are facing now due to low 
prices and high fuel costs”, as well the failure to agree financing with its bank. It said “unforeseen events” had cost it 
significant amounts, including €10m to repair an aeroplane suffering from corrosion and €20m to lease jets and 
crew after the late delivery of new aircraft.
Bjoern Maul, a partner in consultancy Oliver Wyman’s global aviation practice, said the failure of these carriers 
tended to be a result of “overexpansion, being behind in restructuring . . . [and] issues around changing market 
environments all of a sudden”.
Last week, Gatwick published proposals to bring its shorter standby runway into regular use and increase its 
capacity from 281,000 flights this year to 375,000-390,000 by 2032-33. Passenger numbers would increase from 
45.7m to 68m-70m over the same period if the runway project went ahead.
Load-Date: December 27, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair caught in row over passenger’s race abuse
Ryanair caught in row over passenger’s race abuse
 
FT.com
October 21, 2018 Sunday 5:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 535 words
Byline: Myles McCormick in London
Body
Ryanair has come under fire for failing to remove a passenger who racially abused an elderly woman aboard a flight 
on Friday afternoon.
The Irish carrier was criticised by passengers for its handling of the situation on board a Ryanair flight from 
Barcelona to Stansted airport and for not removing the man from the aircraft. A crew member did attempt to 
intervene in the dispute but did not resolve the situation, or remove the passenger.
The incident, which came ahead of the company releasing its half-year results on Monday, will be a blow to the 
budget airline’s efforts to improve its reputation through its “Always Getting Better” campaign. 
“The cabin crew were young. The man just overpowered them,” David Lawrence, who recorded part of the incident 
on  video, told the Financial Times. “I’m sure there was some sort of training in place by Ryanair. I was expecting 
them to put that into place and follow proper procedures — ie: call the police. But they didn’t.”
The incident took place as passengers boarded a flight on Friday afternoon. The man attempted to pass the woman 
who was seated in an aisle seat. An argument broke out between the man and the woman and her daughter when 
the woman supposedly took too long to move.
“He was speaking about her race, saying . . . all these derogatory things. I couldn’t believe it,” Mr Lawrence said.
Shadow transport minister Karl Turner said he would be writing to Ryanair and the aviation minister Liz Sugg “to 
ask what they’ve done about this”. 
Ryanair caught in row over passenger’s race abuse
“Clearly committed criminal offences,” he said on Twitter. “Needs to be charged and fast.”
The male passenger has not been identified and has not responded to the incident.
Ryanair said it had reported the incident to the police in Essex. “As this is now a police matter, we cannot comment 
further,” it added. It had previously stated that it would not tolerate “unruly behaviour” on its aircraft.
The carrier’s low-cost strategy has previously led it put low prices ahead of customer service — “we’re low-cost, 
mean bastards” the airline’s chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said earlier this year.
But it has tried to move away from this uncaring image in recent years. It launched its “Always Getting Better” 
initiative in 2014 following two profit warnings in 2013. It hoped the shift would improve its brand image, presenting 
a friendlier face and being “nicer” to customers. 
The airline has suffered a series PR problems over the past year.
A mix up in its pilot rostering last year led to more than 20,000 flights being cancelled. The airline was then 
pressured into recognising trade unions — despite previous assertions by chief executive Michael O’Leary that hell 
would “freeze over” and he would cut his arms off before this happened.
But the airline has struggled to reach agreements with most unions and has suffered a series of strikes in recent 
months.
Earlier this month it issued another profit warning on the back of weakened “customer confidence” which it said had 
been “affected by fear of further strikes”.
Ryanair ranked 64th in the Skytrax 2018 World Airline Awards and 67th in the AirHelp Worldwide 2018 rankings. It 
was placed bottom of the latest Which? customer satisfaction survey in December 2017.
Load-Date: October 22, 2018
End of Document
Airlines boost salaries to combat critical shortage of senior pilots
Airlines boost salaries to combat critical shortage of senior pilots
 
FT.com
October 20, 2018 Saturday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 931 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
In an industry where profits can vanish in a puff of pricey jet fuel, the global rise of  airline travel is pushing up pay 
for pilots.
Their salaries were already growing. In the UK, their median weekly wage — at £1,726 gross — was 35 per cent 
higher last year than it was a decade ago. It is also almost four times the average. At Ryanair, senior pilots earn 
€140,000-€200,000 while at easyJet they can make up to £150,000. China’s Sichuan Airlines, in a booming 
regional market, is advertising jobs with salaries of more than $313,000, plus $60,000 signing bonuses.
The reasons for the pay rises are not hard to fathom: air travel is on the up, while the supply of senior pilots is 
dropping. All this means that although a wave of recent airline failures has brought crew to the market, with the 
labour market at its tightest for years, it is the newly unemployed pilots who have more bargaining power.
In October last year,  Ryanair, which has more international passengers than any other airline, offered its pilots pay 
increases of 20 per cent or more following pilot shortages and a rostering failure that caused it to cancel thousands 
of flights. It also noted in its annual results that it expected “the market for experienced pilots in Europe to remain 
tight for the next 12 months”. Norwegian, another of the big European budget airlines, also increased pay for pilots 
this year.
At the same time, Hungary’s  Wizz Air, which has gone from 40 aeroplanes in 2013 to 93, has been recruiting 
extensively. “It is no secret that the market is tight,” the airline said. It said it had recruited 1,300 cabin crew and 
Airlines boost salaries to combat critical shortage of senior pilots
pilots in the past year, “the largest scale recruitment campaign in Wizz Air’s history” and was still looking for more 
pilots.
This tightness of supply means pilots can be pretty certain of finding another job even if their employer collapses. 
When Monarch, a British airline, went into administration in 2017, 420 pilots lost their jobs. Of the 340 who were 
members of the British Airline Pilots’ Association, 260 were re-employed within a year, said Wendy Pursey, Balpa’s 
head of membership.
One former Monarch pilot said airlines were “desperate” for experienced people: “It’s like at Halloween, you’ve got 
hands clawing at you.” This particular pilot quickly took one job offer and abandoned it two weeks later when a 
better one came along. “Every pilot that I know of from Monarch has got a job if they wanted one,” he said, 
speaking on the fringes of a Balpa recruitment event at Gatwick airport last week.
The very fact the event happened is testament to demand, Ms Pursey said. “We couldn’t have put this event on 
three years ago — no one was recruiting.” This year, the amount of space it occupied increased by half to 
accommodate recruiters from Ryanair, BA, Cathay Pacific, Emirates and others. Of Balpa’s 10,000 members, less 
than 3.5 per cent were looking for work, Ms Pursey said.
Fergus Rak, a senior pilot at Norwegian meeting potential recruits at the Gatwick fair, said the market “was tilting in 
favour of pilots. That shortfall that’s been advertised for years is coming to fruition.” Asian airlines were offering 
significant sums, he said, to attract staff in a booming regional market.
One reason for the skills shortage Mr Rak referred to is employee demographics. In 2016, the UK’s Civil Aviation 
Authority issued 13,400 airline transport pilot licences — which permit commercial flying — up more than a quarter 
on 2000. However, the number of licences issued to those in their forties rose 37 per cent and more than doubled 
for those in their sixties. Meanwhile, licences for those in their thirties fell 4.7 per cent.
The problem is not the number of pilots but the number of experienced pilots, said Michel Treskin, head of pilot 
recruitment at the OSM Aviation. “You can’t put a cadet in the right-hand [first officer’s] seat and expect them to be 
in the left-hand [captain’s] seat in three years.”
The cost of qualifying is one likely barrier for younger applicants. In general, pilots have to pay for their training, 
which can run to around £100,000, and frequently have to pay the airline that recruits them to train on its particular 
aircraft.
Pilots who cannot fly the Airbus planes that make up easyJet’s fleet have to fund their own conversion training, 
while Wizz Air finances training up front in exchange for a three-year employment contract. Wizz Air also runs its 
own training academy, with partially pre-financed fees and jobs available after qualification.
The former Monarch pilot said the airline had charged £30,000 upfront for conversion training, which he paid off 
£1,000 a month from his net wage. “It took me the entire time at Monarch to pay off the debt to get a job at 
Monarch,” he said.
The industry is aware that the upfront training costs restrict who can afford to become a pilot, with consequences for 
diversity. Robin Glover-Faure, who is in charge of training at L3, which trains pilots for easyJet, BA and others, said 
airlines were starting to bring back sponsorships and bursaries, but were also lobbying for a system “like student 
loans, where the government provides guarantees”.
At the fair, pilots and trainees were optimistic as they milled around stands and talked to airline captains. Aurora 
Chiarini, about to embark on her training, said she would be looking for a job in a year’s time, and Hemal Gandhi 
reported that he had applied for one job this week and already been booked for an assessment next week. If global 
demand continues to grow, Ms Chiarini and Mr Gandhi can feel sure about their future in the skies.
Load-Date: October 20, 2018
Airlines boost salaries to combat critical shortage of senior pilots
End of Document
Flybe issues profit warning on fuel costs and weak pound
Flybe issues profit warning on fuel costs and weak pound
 
FT.com
October 17, 2018 Wednesday 4:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 422 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Shares in low-cost UK airline Flybe dropped 41 per cent on Wednesday after it announced a full-year profit warning, 
blaming weaker sterling and high fuel prices.
The airline said it would now make a pre-tax loss of about £22m, against market expectations of a £3.5m loss, 
though there was some mitigation in the form of the cancellation of a £10m provision made in previous accounts. 
Last year, the company lost £19.2m.
At the close, Flybe shares were down 13.3p to 18.9p, a fall of more than 55 per cent on a year ago.
Flybe’s recent strategy has been to cut capacity and focus on popular routes to increase numbers on each flight 
and improve yield per passenger. 
While in the first half of the year, load factor for flights increased eight percentage points to 84 per cent, yield was 
down 2 per cent.
Christine Ourmières-Widener, chief executive, said Flybe was “seeing a softening in the market” adding that the 
company was reviewing “further capacity and cost-saving measures”.
The airline said: “Consumer demand in domestic and near-continent markets has weakened in recent weeks and 
the board now expects this to continue into the second half. This, together with higher fuel prices and weaker 
sterling, will impact the expected second-half profit performance.”
Flybe issues profit warning on fuel costs and weak pound
Excess capacity has become a significant drag on the market, driving down fares. Barclays has predicted that year-
on-year capacity growth in the European short-haul market will be 10 per cent in October and 12 per cent in both 
November and December. Ryanair has announced that it is cutting winter capacity to try to increase fares.
The cost of fuel had risen to $96 a barrel by mid-October, up 39 per cent on a year ago. 
Flybe was “very well hedged” against the rise for the next 18 months, Ms Ourmières-Widener told the Financial 
Times in September, but the profit warning has indicated that the unhedged part, about 20 per cent as of 
September, has had a big impact.
The International Air Transport Association has forecast that this year’s higher price will cost the whole industry 
$47.4bn.
Earlier in October, Ryanair cut its full-year profit guidance from €1.25bn-€1.35bn to €1.1bn-€1.2bn and warned that 
the figure might fall further still, blaming staff strikes, resulting compensation costs and the high price of oil.
At Flybe’s first-quarter results in July, Ms Ourmières-Widener said: “The year has started well. We are on track and 
looking forward to further progress towards sustainable profitability.”
The company will publish its half-year results on November 14.
Load-Date: October 17, 2018
End of Document
BA owner warned it will have no special treatment after Brexit
BA owner warned it will have no special treatment after Brexit
 
FT.com
October 16, 2018 Tuesday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 895 words
Byline: Josh Spero and Rochelle Toplensky in Brussels
Body
The EU’s top transport official has signalled she will not bend Europe’s laws to help IAG, the Anglo-Spanish airline 
group that risks falling foul of post-Brexit ownership rules, if the UK crashes out of the bloc without a deal.
Violeta Bulc, EU transport commissioner, told the Financial Times in an interview that there was no reason for 
airlines to be caught out by a hard Brexit, since they have had fair warning to make sure their corporate 
arrangements fit EU rules. 
These stipulate that European carriers must be more than 50 per cent EU-owned and controlled. Some companies 
— including IAG, which owns British Airways — have yet to ensure they will reach the threshold after Brexit, when 
UK nationals will no longer count towards the tally. Those who fail to do so would risk losing their EU operating 
rights.
The risk of a hard Brexit “has been known since the first day the British people voted to exit . . . We’ve been asking 
everyone to take it seriously and to prepare for different scenarios,” Ms Bulc, a former telecoms executive and 
Slovenian deputy prime minister, said.
“If there is no deal [between the EU and UK], I don’t need to point out which side the EU will be on,” she said. “It’s 
Spain that we will have in mind.”
BA owner warned it will have no special treatment after Brexit
Ms Bulc gave no further details, but her spokesman later said that in the case of “conflicting interests” after Brexit, 
the transport commissioner would help EU authorities to bring European airlines’ “ownership and control structures 
in line with EU law”. 
Most airlines have provisions that will enable them to forcibly buy out non-EU investors to retain their licences. 
Dublin-headquartered Ryanair and UK-based easyJet plan to use this mechanism to hit the target in the event of a 
hard Brexit. 
But IAG, which owns British Airways and runs the world’s busiest long-haul route with its London-New York flights, 
faces a dilemma. Any bilateral US-UK aviation agreement would be likely to require the company, which is Spanish-
registered and has diverse global shareholders, to be majority owned and controlled by UK parties. In this event, it 
could fall out of the existing US-EU deal after Brexit, losing its European operating rights and reducing its carriers’ 
access to the US from the bloc.
IAG told the FT: “We have every confidence that the US and UK will sign a deal that is in everyone’s interests. All 
parties have a shared interest in ensuring that existing rights continue under new bilateral arrangements. This 
allows airlines on both sides of the Atlantic to operate existing services and seek to develop new ones.” 
Willie Walsh, IAG chief executive, has previously rejected fears that the group could face post-Brexit ownership 
problems as “nonsense”.
Aside from Brexit, Ms Bulc, who was confirmed as transport commissioner in 2014, has found her priorities 
confounded by unco-operative member states and worker strikes. Issues at the top of her list include improving 
cross-border transport and pursuing the Single European Sky policy, which aims to create a unified EU air traffic 
control area to increase capacity and cut disruption.
But the Single European Sky has stalled, partly because national air traffic management agencies are unwilling to 
cede autonomy, and this summer Europe experienced its worst congestion on record. In July, airline passengers 
experienced more than 135,000 minutes — or almost 94 days — of in-flight delays on average each day, more than 
double the July 2017 figure. 
Eurocontrol, which compiled the data and co-ordinates national air traffic management agencies, put the troubles 
down to lack of capacity and strikes.
At the European Aviation Summit in Vienna earlier this month, Ms Bulc said the EU was “in desperate need of a 
modern and efficient air traffic infrastructure” and that co-operation between countries and air traffic managers was 
“still far from optimal”.
Noting that the Single European Sky had been in development for more than 25 years, she called for more 
investment and adoption of technology from EU states to combat delays. This summer’s congestion, she said, was 
“stimulating everyone to act”. 
Pointing to congestion caused by striking air traffic controllers — in France they downed tools for nine weekends in 
the second quarter of the year — Ms Bulc told the FT that a more “transparent” structure for stakeholders, including 
trade unions, was needed to deal with “social issues”, such as job losses caused by technology or the 
rationalisation of air traffic control services. 
She also urged the European Council of EU heads of state and government to “commit themselves and deliver the 
necessary steps” for easing aviation congestion to avoid inhibiting growth. Eurocontrol has predicted the number of 
flights to and from Europe will increase from 9.8m in 2014 to 12.4m in 2024.
Such a rise will complicate the EU’s ambitions to cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per cent from 1990 levels 
by 2030. Environmentalists are concerned that a carbon offset scheme being rolled out from next year, known as 
Corsia, will do little to curb damage caused by emissions, but Ms Bulc sees it as “a big step forward”.
BA owner warned it will have no special treatment after Brexit
She added, however, that the EU needed “to pull the world behind us” in reducing aviation emissions and said she 
regretted that China and Russia had not signed up to Corsia. She also hoped that the Trump administration would 
not pull the US out of the scheme.
Load-Date: October 19, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair not ‘sincere’ in talks with workers, says union official
Ryanair not ‘sincere’ in talks with workers, says union official
 
FT.com
October 14, 2018 Sunday 11:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 560 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair could put an end to its workers’ strikes if the airline was “sincere” about contract negotiations, a senior 
union official has said.
Philip von Schöppenthau, secretary-general of the European Cockpit Association, which represents more than 
38,000 pilots, said: “Ryanair could finish everything by the end of the year if they wanted to, if they were sincere and 
if they stopped playing one union against another.”
Union members’ strikes and the resulting cost of compensating customers have been a thorn in Ryanair’s side and 
in combination with the high price of oil they caused it to issue a profit warning at the start of this month.
Europe’s largest low-cost carrier has been negotiating collective labour agreements with each of its largest pilot and 
cabin crew unions across Europe and has faced a summer of strikes as some negotiations have soured. Unions 
have reported presenting identical terms to Ryanair and receiving different responses.
Mr von Schöppenthau accused Ryanair of “a disguised way of punishing pilots for engaging in the fundamental right 
to strike” by announcing it would shut or trim bases in Germany and the Netherlands, where workers have been 
particularly restive. It was a “striking coincidence” that the announcement shortly followed strike action, he said.
The airline’s chief executive Michael O’Leary has denied targeting bases because of strike activity, instead 
describing them as low-performing and expensive.
Ryanair not ‘sincere’ in talks with workers, says union official
Ryanair agreed to recognise unions in late 2017 but has struggled to reach terms with most of them. Earlier this 
month Mr O’Leary said he had reluctantly come to accept unionisation, despite once saying “hell would freeze over” 
before he did so.
The ECA brings together 36 national pilots’ unions and was established in 1991.
Mr von Schöppenthau said Ryanair lacked the institutional capacity to negotiate so many agreements at once, 
echoing the view of the British Airline Pilots’ Association, but he added it was also “a question of political will of the 
Ryanair board and leadership”. Swift resolution to industrial disputes was in the interest of investors, executives and 
staff, he said.
Ryanair said: “Since we have now negotiated CLAs [collective labour agreements] with both cabin crew and pilot 
unions in Italy, and also signed agreements both with cabin crew and pilots in Ireland, there are clearly no lack of 
skills or culture issues in Ryanair.”
The union chief described Ryanair’s tactics as a form of divide and conquer, hoping that “if they sign deals with a 
few key countries, then the others will fall in line like dominoes”. But he said Ryanair’s unions were acting 
transnationally, trying to negotiate on continent-wide issues such as terms and conditions, as well as striking en 
masse.
Ryanair said: “We are not willing to repeatedly respond to hearsay and false claims. It should be obvious when 
national unions are calling for local contracts and local laws that it is the national unions who are driving their 
national negotiations, not Ryanair.”
Ryanair has published its offer to pilots, which includes open and constructive bargaining; contracts under local, not 
Irish, law; and national seniority lists to determine base transfers and annual holiday allocations.
Strikes by Ryanair staff have included five days by Irish pilots and the two days of co-ordinated pan-European 
action by cabin crew.
Load-Date: October 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair pilots union blames chief O’Leary for stalled talks
Ryanair pilots union blames chief O’Leary for stalled talks
 
FT.com
October 8, 2018 Monday 5:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 581 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair will not be able to improve relations between pilots and management as long as Michael O’Leary is in 
charge, a union leader has said.
John Moore, head of industrial relations at the British Airline Pilots’ Association, Balpa, issued the warning as he 
accused the boss of the low-cost airline of creating an “atmosphere of distrust”. 
Mr Moore added: “If you asked one of our members, they would say that this does come from the top, that things 
will only improve if there is regime change.”
He confirmed that negotiations between the union and the airline had not made “any meaningful progress on pay”, 
prompting an unsuccessful conclusion to the first round of talks and bringing strike action a step closer.
“It’s possible that by December, we will have exhausted the internal process and we would then need to consider 
whether or not to go ahead with an official ballot for industrial action,” said Mr Moore.
Ryanair said a change in Balpa’s negotiating team had caused delays to discussion of written proposals the 
company sent the union in early August. “These delays lie with Balpa, not Ryanair.”
British workers make up the largest contingent of Ryanair’s pilots, according to research by investment company 
Bernstein: 880 out of almost 4,300.
Ryanair pilots union blames chief O’Leary for stalled talks
Ryanair has suffered a summer of strikes across Europe, including five days by Irish pilots and the two days of co-
ordinated pan-European action by cabin crew. 
The airline agreed to recognise unions in late 2017 following a rostering failure that caused it to cancel thousands of 
flights, but has struggled to reach terms with most of its unions.
Last week Mr O’Leary said he had reluctantly come to accept unionisation, despite once saying “hell would freeze 
over” before he recognised them.
“I have two stances: we will ultimately be unionised . . . and I have accepted that as reality, but for as long as we 
can postpone unionisation, we would try to postpone unionisation. The two aren’t contradictory.”
Union members’ strikes, the resulting compensation costs and the high price of oil led the company to issue a profit 
warning at the start of October, cutting its forecast from €1.25bn-€1.35bn to €1.1bn-€1.2bn.
Mr Moore said Ryanair “may well have good intentions but lacks the skills and the expertise to conduct effective 
industrial relations. These are skills that can’t be picked up overnight.” 
He added that, “objectively, there’s very little between the two sides”, because the union was proposing some terms 
which mirrored Ryanair’s agreement with its Irish pilots.
Ryanair said: “Since we have now negotiated CLAs [collective labour agreements] with both cabin crew and pilot 
unions in Italy and also signed agreements both with cabin crew and pilots in Ireland, there are clearly no lack of 
skills or culture issues in Ryanair.”
Regulating base transfers — where pilots can be moved around one of Ryanair’s 86 European hubs at short notice 
— has proved “particularly contentious”, said Mr Moore.
Ryanair has published its offer to pilots, which includes open and constructive bargaining; contracts under local, not 
Irish, law; and national seniority lists to determine base transfers and annual holiday allocations.
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said Ryanair’s “blank slate” when it came to union agreements meant “the 
union has an incentive to push for the largest possible scope for the agreement” and that the carrier’s fear of further 
strikes tarnishing its brand “will force Ryanair to agree to union terms faster”.
Load-Date: October 9, 2018
End of Document
Campaign group warns EU it will miss aviation emissions target
Campaign group warns EU it will miss aviation emissions target
 
FT.com
October 7, 2018 Sunday 2:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 626 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The EU will miss its 2030 aviation emissions target by almost 100m tonnes if it adopts a new industry-backed 
standard being rolled out next year, a transport campaigning group has claimed.
The Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (Corsia) would allow airlines to offset 
emissions growth, rather than necessarily reduce it, according to a report prepared for Transport & Environment, a 
Brussels-based group for non-governmental organisations.
T&E said Corsia had “substantial and ongoing failings” and only offered “cheap and ineffective” remedies for 
emissions, which contribute towards climate change.
It also said Corsia would represent a “financial windfall for airlines”, saving them more than €3bn a year compared 
with expanding an existing scheme.
The International Civil Aviation Organization, the UN agency that developed Corsia, said the scheme was one part 
of “ICAO’s basket of measures designed to reduce carbon emissions from international aviation” and that 
improvements in aircraft technology, operations and sustainable aviation fuels would “achieve the international 
aviation sector’s global goal of carbon neutral growth from 2020”.
The aviation industry supports Corsia. In December 2017, Willie Walsh, chief executive of British Airways owner 
IAG, called Corsia “an excellent first step”, while low-cost European carrier Ryanair has said it is a “historic 
breakthrough in global carbon emission regulation”.
Campaign group warns EU it will miss aviation emissions target
Paul Steele, senior vice-president at the International Air Transport Association, which represents almost 300 
airlines, said: “The agreement of Corsia by ICAO states was hugely significant as it offers the most effective and 
efficient means of offsetting the emissions that cannot be cut through technological and operational improvements 
in the short term.”
From 2019, Corsia will require airlines to monitor, report and verify CO2 emissions to establish a baseline, before a 
pilot phase from 2021 to 2023 for volunteer states. From 2027, most of ICAO’s 191 member states will have to 
participate.
The EU has an overarching target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per cent from 1990 by 2030, which 
has been set to 111m tonnes for emissions from flights leaving the bloc.
But the report found that Corsia would not stop them rising to 211m tonnes based on current sector growth 
predictions. Airlines could offset the balance through investing in emissions-reducing projects such as forest-
planting, solar energy or hydrodynamic power.
At the moment, the EU operates an emissions trading system (EU ETS) for flights between and within member 
states that has a declining cap for aviation emissions. Corsia would replace this for flights between member states.
Andrew Murphy of T&E said: “We could end up dismantling what is at present the only measure to regulate aviation 
emissions and replace it with something which is less credible, a lot cheaper and a lot less likely to regulate 
emissions.”
Rachel Welch-Phillips, an associate at law firm Bird & Bird, said that while Corsia had the advantage of being a 
global, not just European, scheme, EU ETS “sets a stricter cap on emissions”, making it more likely to deter new 
ones.
Doug Parr, chief scientist at Greenpeace UK, said there were “substantial questions” about the effectiveness of the 
offsets Corsia envisages, which “do not have a good track record”. He said offsets lacked permanence (for 
example, a newly planted forest could be cut down) and integrity (a forest may be planted insufficiently or not at all).
T&E urged the EU to submit a demurral in its response to a consultation on Corsia’s rule book, rather than signing 
up immediately. This would allow the EU to “keep its options open as to whether or how it will implement Corsia”, it 
said.
Load-Date: October 12, 2018
End of Document
Airlines only thrive when they know who to insult
Airlines only thrive when they know who to insult
 
FT.com
October 6, 2018 Saturday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 592 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
SkyWork, Air Berlin, Monarch Airlines, VLM. And then, this week, Primera Air. All these European airlines have 
gone bust in a little over a year. 
They join better-known names in aviation’s graveyard: Pan American, TWA, Sabena, Olympic Airways.
Ryanair is very much alive, but it cut its full-year profit guidance this week, blaming employee strikes and the high 
oil price.
Robert Crandall, head of American Airlines in the 1980s and 1990s, said that anyone who invested in airlines was 
“nuts”. Warren Buffett quipped that there was a helpline he called whenever he thought of buying airline shares.
Yet many are still tempted to enter the business. A group of industry veterans announced last month that they 
wanted to raise more than $100m in Switzerland to launch a low-cost carrier to fly from Basel to North America.
“Maybe it’s sex appeal, but there’s something about an airline that drives investors crazy,” Alfred Kahn, who 
deregulated US airlines in the 1970s, once said.
Even Mr Buffett has since invested in several US airlines. “They had a bad first century,” he  told CNBC. “Everyone 
has a bad century now and then.”
But in this century, the aviation dilemma remains the same. Airlines have high fixed costs, an enduring vulnerability 
to the oil price and constant price competition from their rivals.
Airlines only thrive when they know who to insult
So what is the key to airline survival? Being mean, and knowing whom to be mean to. Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s 
boss, discovered years ago that you could insult and mistreat your customers all you wanted; offer them cheap 
tickets and they would still fly.
He said of passengers wanting to cancel because their grandmother was ill: “What part of no refund don’t they 
understand?”
Mr O’Leary claimed to have had a change of heart in 2013 after two profit warnings, saying he would make Ryanair 
passenger-friendly. “I want my customers to love me the way I love them.”
But a customer-loving Mr O’Leary was as believable as a bashful Boris Johnson. Ryanair’s past success depended 
on shaving costs and getting customers to pay for extras. In August, it told passengers they could take only a small 
bag on board unless they paid €6 extra for priority boarding. 
Extra charges, along with squeezed economy seats, are no longer a Ryanair preserve. Older airlines across the US 
and Europe have done the same. British Airways now charges for food on its economy short-haul flights.
But passengers are one thing; pilots are another. It is best to stay on the right side of them. Unfortunately for Mr 
O’Leary, Ryanair messed up its pilot rostering last year, leading to more than 20,000 flights being cancelled. 
Ryanair pilots saw their chance and demanded union recognition. This was something Mr O’Leary had flatly refused 
for years. (Hell would freeze over and he would cut his arms off were two of his characteristically understated 
assessments of the prospect.)
Much of the airline’s success had come from avoiding the costs that union demands had added to traditional 
carriers over the years. But faced with the threat of pilot strikes, Ryanair began recognising air crew unions, starting 
with Balpa, the UK pilots’ representatives. The strikes happened all the same. Over the summer, Ryanair pilots and 
cabin crew went on strike in Belgium, the Netherlands, Portugal, Italy and Germany.
And once strikes start, passengers worry that they will happen again. Mr O’Leary said customer confidence had 
taken a knock. People do not want to book their holidays if they fear they may not happen. As Ryanair has 
discovered, even meanness to passengers has its limits.
Load-Date: October 8, 2018
End of Document
Has Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary lost his cost-killing touch?
Has Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary lost his cost-killing touch?
 
FT.com
October 5, 2018 Friday 3:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1166 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London and Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
In 1995, soon after taking over as chief executive of Ryanair, Michael O’Leary wrote a characteristically plain-
speaking memo. His mission to control costs would be “ruthless . . . at the expense of charm, style and elegance if 
necessary”.
Mr O’Leary has been true to his word: Ryanair’s hard-nosed culture has produced an airline with few frills but 
market-leading profitability and a superior valuation. 
But the low-cost carrier, which issued a profit warning this week and its shares dropped 11 per cent in response, is 
suffering its most turbulent period, beset by strikes, high fuel prices and fiercer competition. 
Investors and industry figures are even asking whether Ryanair’s best days are behind it.
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, reckons that last year’s net income of €1.45bn “is an earning level they will 
not be reaching any time ever again soon”. This week’s warning brought the 2019 profit target down more than 10 
per cent to €1.1bn-€1.2bn.
In an interview with the Financial Times, Mr O’Leary warned that there might be further bad news to come: “Do we 
have to trim guidance again for the year? We hope we don’t have to but again it can’t be ruled out if [ticket] pricing 
continues to fall and oil prices continue to rise.” 
He was sanguine, though, about the company’s stock: “Our share price has been grim, but the performance of most 
of our peers has been equally grim.”
Has Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary lost his cost-killing touch?
It is true that most airlines have suffered this year but Ryanair, whose shares have fallen by almost 30 per cent, has 
previously outshone the market. On a five-year basis, IAG, the parent of British Airways and Iberia, has now caught 
up with its low-cost rival, having spent most of that period trailing by a large margin.
While the industry has been hit by a surging oil price and over capacity, Ryanair has endured a particularly painful 
series of strikes that have left passengers exasperated and investors worried that Mr O’Leary is losing his ability to 
control costs.
“The employment practices of Ryanair were unique and — as it appears now — not sustainable,” said Andrew 
Lobbenberg, an analyst at HSBC. “Their units costs will still be very good, and almost certainly among the best in 
the industry, but the gap will narrow.”
Mr O’Leary has repeatedly expressed his dislike of unions, once saying “hell would freeze over” before he 
recognised them, but he told the FT he had long anticipated the evolution: “I have two stances: we will ultimately be 
unionised . . . and I have accepted that as reality, but for as long as we can postpone unionisation, we would try to 
to postpone unionisation. The two aren’t contradictory.” 
After a rostering debacle last autumn, which led to thousands of cancelled flights and millions in compensation 
payments, Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions and negotiate collective labour agreements.
However, the process has been rough, with few CLAs secured so far and staff striking on multiple occasions over 
the summer , sometimes in concert across Europe. 
Strikes are not uncommon in aviation — British Airways’ cabin crew staged 85 days of industrial action across 
2016-17 — but Ryanair’s are particularly damaging, as the airline is unable or unwilling to take expensive mitigation 
measures such as hiring replacement aeroplanes with external crews.
Joost van Doesburg of Dutch pilots’ union VNV, said he wanted to warn customers about the true cost of cheap 
flights: “If you are paying a not realistic amount of money for your tickets, someone else is getting the bill — in this 
case, the employees.” 
Even as he deals with restive pilots, Mr O’Leary is out shopping for more. The recent failures of several small 
European airlines helps the industry’s over-capacity and provides hiring amid a global pilot shortage.
“It isn’t going to be pretty this winter and there will be lots of opportunities,” said Mr O’Leary. Primera, a small 
Latvian-based carrier, on Monday night failed and on Wednesday Ryanair “had an open day for Primera 
pilots . . . We interviewed over 100 pilots,” Mr O’Leary said.
Ryanair’s strength, even if it does accept unions, will be its discipline, said aviation consultant Philipp Goedeking, 
who has advised 20 airlines on improving their competitiveness and now works with banks on the strategic risks 
airlines pose for investors. 
He praised Ryanair for strictly following its “outrageously successful” strategy with “not an iota of deviation from that 
course”, for example moving into long-haul flights. When it comes to unionisation, Mr Goedeking said, “he will lose 
that battle . . . but it will not kill Ryanair”.
Whether Ryanair can change under Mr O’Leary, 57, in part depends on whether he stays at the top: in 2019, his 
five-year contract comes to an end and he has said he would prefer a rolling annual contract, while the board wants 
another five-year one. Unions said there was no chance of cultural change while he was still in charge, and analysts 
said they had seen no evidence of such change so far.
And despite the share price fall, some large shareholders are sticking with Mr O’Leary.
One top-30 shareholder said that although the strikes had caused a “significant setback” to trust and image caused 
by the strikes, “the company’s union representatives must understand the company’s business model as it is in no 
party’s interest to kill the golden goose.”
Has Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary lost his cost-killing touch?
Additional reporting by Attracta Mooney in London and Henny Sender in Hong Kong.
This article has been amended since original publication to correct the chart on the airlines’ stock performances
Ryanair prepares for change of chairman
High up Ryanair’s list of problems is investor unhappiness with chairman David Bonderman, the 75-year-old who is 
also the billionaire founder of Texas Pacific Group, the US private equity firm.
Almost 30 per cent of shares were voted against his re-election at the airline’s recent annual meeting, as investors 
protested that Mr Bonderman’s 22-year tenure meant he could not be an independent check on chief executive 
Michael O’Leary. 
The vote contradicted the prediction of Mr O’Leary, who at a press conference in September had expected a 
maximum rebellion of 20 per cent.
Mr O’Leary said he hoped Mr Bonderman would be re-elected in 2019, but added: “There is a succession plan in 
place and that will be revealed in the next year or two . . . There’s no fixed date, there’s no fixed names.” 
Two senior figures with knowledge of Ryanair’s internal affairs said the carrier was preparing for the “inevitability” of 
“Bondo”, as the chairman is known in the boardroom, standing down. 
One of those figures said: “It wouldn’t have been lost on Bonderman or anybody that the vote went that 
way . . . We’d prefer that it was managed, rather than he was pushed.” Both individuals said the airline had yet to 
initiate a formal succession process.
Whoever replaces the private equity boss, it will not be Mr O’Leary himself, who has claimed he has “no desire” to 
do it: “I’m not old enough, calm enough or wise enough to be chairman of Ryanair.”
Load-Date: October 7, 2018
End of Document
EU drafts tough contingency plans for no-deal Brexit
EU drafts tough contingency plans for no-deal Brexit
 
FT.com
October 5, 2018 Friday 8:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 863 words
Byline: Mehreen Khan and Alex Barker in Brussels
Body
Brussels is planning to rattle the UK by unveiling tough contingency measures for a no-deal Brexit that could force 
flight cancellations and leave exporters facing massive disruption if Britain departs the EU without an exit 
agreement in March.
The European Commission is expected to reveal the plans next week in what will be its most detailed guidance to 
date on the emergency measures it is weighing to mitigate some of the worst effects of Britain crashing out of the 
EU. 
Against expectations in London, the plan is likely to encompass a limited number of initiatives over a maximum of 
eight months, diplomats who have seen the document told the Financial Times. 
Notably, the EU is not planning special arrangements for customs or road transport and only limited provisions for 
financial services — a decision that, if seen through, would cause long queues and operational difficulties at ports 
and airports.
The minimalist emergency plan, designed to be rolled out should there be no breakthrough in Brexit talks, would 
increase the pressure over already fraught negotiations between the UK and the EU ahead of a summit on 17 
October. EU plans would then be firmed up by December.
EU drafts tough contingency plans for no-deal Brexit
However, the timing of the document indicates that Brussels may use it as leverage in the talks, only to end up 
revising no-deal plans. An EU diplomat familiar with the preparations said the commission was planning to adjust 
the tone of the draft according to progress made in negotiations over coming days. 
“It will be harder if it all gets stuck and softer if things are going well,” the diplomat said. 
European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker said he expected the EU would reach a Brexit deal with 
Britain in November if it fails to do so this month.
“We are not there yet. But our will to reach an understanding with the British government is unbroken,” he told 
Austrian media in comments reported on Saturday. 
According to the commission’s draft, airlines such as Ryanair and British Airways parent International Airline Group 
would not be given any extra transition time to meet the bloc’s regulatory requirement of 50 per cent EU-based 
ownership for a European operating licence. 
The commission urges the groups to take “all necessary steps” to meet ownership requirements — implying forced 
buyouts of UK shareholders may be necessary to prevent severe limitations on where and when they could fly 
within the EU. 
The commission has thus far resisted outlining details of its plans for a no-deal Brexit for fear it would disrupt tense 
negotiations. But with just six months to go before Brexit, EU member states have pressed Brussels to speed up its 
preparations in case no deal is agreed in time.
Brussels will outline general principles for deciding the fields requiring special measures, which must only mitigate 
significant disruptions in areas of “vital union interest”. The measures would be applied by the EU until the end of 
2019 on a unilateral basis. They could be revoked with no notice, according to diplomats.
The plans are intended to enable basic air services, allowing flights to land and fly straight back to the UK, and to 
extend air safety certificates and security exemptions for UK travellers in transit. Visa-free travel is envisaged for 
British citizens, as long as it is reciprocated. 
In the draft, the commission argues that many of the no-deal risks for the financial sector have “diminished 
significantly” thanks to preparatory steps taken by the private institutions. It insists there would be “no generalised 
problem” with the enforceability of contracts — an issue raised by the UK as potential threat to financial stability.
However, cleared derivative contracts have been identified as an area entailing “potential risks to financial stability 
in a no-deal scenario”. The commission said it was still assessing what steps would need to be taken.
The EU also makes the case that it is unnecessary to relax customs and agricultural controls. Instead, it urges 
member states to be ready to enforce the EU’s full import rule book from the first day of Brexit.  
Road hauliers would have their access rights limited to a system of permits that only covers 5 per cent of existing 
traffic. There would be no mechanism to extend EU licenses, according to a diplomat who had seen the document. 
The commission also urges member states to have faith in Brussels’ “collective plan” for a no-deal Brexit and refrain 
from striking bilateral agreements with the UK that would threaten the single market — even if they have the power 
to do so. 
Even when discussing a scenario where a withdrawal agreement is reached with the UK, the commission still 
adopts a blunt tone about the terms of the 22-month post-Brexit transition. “The UK becomes a rule-taker not a 
rulemaker,” the paper states, according to the diplomat. 
It cites the example of the EU being empowered to order the extermination of livestock after a disease outbreak in 
Britain “with the UK having no decision-making role”. 
EU drafts tough contingency plans for no-deal Brexit
After a meeting of EU leaders in Salzburg, Jean-Claude Juncker, commission president, last month said Brussels 
was prepared for any no-deal scenario. “Don’t worry, be happy,” he said. 
Load-Date: October 8, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cuts profit outlook over strikes and higher oil prices
Ryanair cuts profit outlook over strikes and higher oil prices
 
FT.com
October 1, 2018 Monday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 529 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair has cut its full-year profit guidance and warned the figure might fall further still, blaming 
staff strikes, resulting compensation costs and the high price of oil.
After the company cut its profit forecast from €1.25bn to €1.35bn to €1.1bn to €1.2bn on Monday, Ryanair shares 
fell 11 per cent to €11.67, nearing a three-year low. Shares across the industry followed suit, with easyJet down 4.2 
per cent and Wizz Air down 3.1 per cent. In the year to the end of March 2018, Ryanair made a €1.45bn profit.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, said strikes by pilots and cabin crew in five countries this summer had hit 
passenger numbers, yields and future air fares. 
On two days of co-ordinated European strikes, Ryanair “operated over 90 per cent of our schedule”, he said. 
“However, customer confidence, forward bookings and third-quarter fares have been affected.”
Ryanair has suffered a summer of strikes across Europe, including five days by Irish pilots and the two days of co-
ordinated pan-European action by cabin crew. The airline agreed to recognise unions in late 2017 following a 
rostering failure which caused it to cancel thousands of flights, but has struggled to reach terms with most of its 
unions.
Ryanair’s second-quarter fares would fall 3 per cent, instead of rising 1 per cent, the airline said, and second-half 
fares would fall 2 per cent, instead of remaining flat. The fuel bill would rise €460m, up €30m on previous guidance.
Ryanair cuts profit outlook over strikes and higher oil prices
Mr O’Leary added: “Ryanair cannot rule out further disruptions in the third quarter, which may require full-year 
guidance to be lowered further and may necessitate further trimming of lossmaking winter capacity.”
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said the timing of the announcement, before Ryanair published its half-year 
results in late October, meant “the management team saw no possibility to recover this” for the full year.
Capacity growth over the winter for low-cost, short-haul flights in Europe is weighing on fares: Barclays has 
estimated that growth will be more than 10 per cent in November. Ryanair said on Monday that it would cut its 
capacity 1 per cent this winter, reducing or closing three bases in Germany and the Netherlands.
Staff in those two countries have been involved in the strike action, and the Dutch VNV pilots’ union linked the 
closure to poor industrial relations, calling it “the standard fear-mongering rhetoric of Ryanair”. Ryanair said it could 
not comment because it was in a closed period before its results.
The full-year guidance excluded Ryanair’s investment in Laudamotion, a small Austrian airline, which it expects to 
produce exceptional losses of €150m this year.
Last week, easyJet said its pre-tax profit for 2018 would be at the higher end of its range but predicted revenue per 
seat in the first half of 2019 would decrease by low-to-mid single digits.
Mr O’Leary recently conceded that the strikes at Ryanair had “damaged customer confidence” and said he had 
acquired a new “humility” given the recent problems.
This article has been updated to clarify that Ryanair plans to reduce or close three bases in Germany and the 
Netherlands to cut capacity this winter.
Load-Date: October 2, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair pays price for making take-off an optional extra
Ryanair pays price for making take-off an optional extra
 
FT.com
October 1, 2018 Monday 7:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 807 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
•
Choose your seat — £4; 
•
Add extra legroom — £15;
•
Carry on an extra cabin bag — £6;
•
Fast track through security — £3.50;
•
Have pilot fly plane — £12.50;
•
Actually leave tarmac — £20 . . .
You would not put it past Ryanair, would you? It seems to charge extra for every aspect of air travel previously 
deemed a prerequisite. But there is one reason why the low-cost airline would never dare add those last two fees: it 
has already seen what happens to bookings if you make taking-off an optional extra. 
On Monday, Ryanair  warned of a, roughly, €150m cut to its full-year profit after tax, to a lower range of €1.10bn-
€1.20bn, because “customer confidence” had been “affected by fear of further strikes”. In recent weeks,  walkouts 
by European pilots and cabin crew over pay and conditions meant 40,000 passengers had their flights grounded. 
And it seems passengers need to be confident of being taken where they want to go (or at least to an airport within 
50 miles) before handing over their money. A Ryanair ticket may cost the same as a lottery ticket (before you add 
those extras) but purchasers apparently want more than a 1 in 40,000 chance of a return (even to London 
Stansted).
Ryanair pays price for making take-off an optional extra
As one analyst put it, with a degree of understatement: “Clients like cheap airfares but they value flight certainty 
more.” So, too, do City types. But, unlike stranded passengers in TV news vox-pops, they did at least have some 
certainty that this profit warning was coming (and the Boeing 737-800 to Düsseldorf probably was not). As Morgan 
Stanley pointed out, consensus estimates for Ryanair’s post-tax profit had already fallen some way below its 
previous guidance range of €1.25bn-€1.35bn. So, why would its shares fall 12 per cent in response to a certainty? 
Arguably because Ryanair — despite reaching agreements with pilots and crew in Ireland, the UK and Italy — still 
cannot rule out  further flight disruption elsewhere in Europe, “which may require full-year guidance to be lowered 
further”.
But arguably also because, even when the disruption is finally over, Ryanair will not be able to go back to being the 
extremely low-cost airline it once was. Its profit warning included several other factors common to all airlines: staff 
costs, fuel prices, capacity and weaker fares.
Offering local contracts with improved terms and conditions to staff continues what one commentator called 
Ryanair’s “painful transition into a higher-cost airline”.
Paying a higher price of $82 a barrel for the 10 per cent of its oil bill that is not hedged puts it in the same position 
as its competitors.  
And cutting prices to compete in a market flooded with overcapacity makes it  no different to easyJet — which is 
forecast to suffer a 40 per cent fall in 2019 earnings.
For Ryanair’s aircraft, then, the problem is not so much leaving the tarmac — it is looking far too much like all the 
others standing there.
Don’t bank on Tesco  
It has taken Aldi almost three decades to win the hearts of British shoppers, writes Kate Burgess. Last year the 
German discounter’s sales rose 16.4 per cent to £10bn and its operating margin ticked up to 2.6 per cent. But given 
that timescale, the odds of a Johnny-come-lately muscling in seem slim. The chances of Tesco’s ‘Jack’-come-lately 
discount stores winning back lost share are slimmer.
Aldi has a simple strategy: to increase its store presence. It has no plans to expand online and will sacrifice margins 
to keep prices down. 
Tesco, in contrast, operates on multiple fronts. And boss Dave Lewis has vowed to lift group margins from close to 
3 per cent to nearer 4 per cent. He may have been hoping for a lift from its more profitable sidelines. Tesco Bank, 
for example, is working on 14.5 per cent margins. But the Financial Conduct Authority has just levied a  £16.4m 
fine  on the bank following what it deemed to be an “avoidable” attack by fraudsters in 2016. That demonstrates that 
while it may be OK to be a cheapskate with chillers, it is not OK to scrimp on cyber security. 
Royal Mail’s late delivery
How typical that Royal Mail delivered a profit warning at 3.27pm on Monday, rather than 7am. This is, of course, the 
earliest that First Class post arrives these days. And the contents of its missive helped explain why: the posties can 
no longer get round to the £230m of productivity savings they promised in return for working fewer hours. 
However, it is other employees’ timing that stands out. Former chief executive Moya Greene, who negotiated the 
productivity deal, left in June with a  pay-off of more than £900,000. Chairman Peter Long resigned just  three 
months later, after shareholders protested over pay and his other jobs. And new chief Rico Back waited only 11 
days since that departure to put his message out. Some really can get a move on if they want to. 
matthew.vincent@ft.com
Tesco Bank: kate.burgess@ft.com
Ryanair pays price for making take-off an optional extra
Load-Date: October 2, 2018
End of Document
Low-cost airline Primera Air collapses after failing to secure funding
Low-cost airline Primera Air collapses after failing to secure funding
 
FT.com
October 1, 2018 Monday 8:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 251 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London
Body
Primera Air, a low-cost carrier, has ceased operations and announced it will close as of October 2 after it failed to 
secure financing.
In an announcement on its website, the Latvian-based airline said: “On behalf of Primera Air team, we would like to 
thank you for your loyalty. On this sad day we are saying goodbye to all of you.”
The airline flew nine Boeing aircraft from bases in countries including Iceland, Denmark, Sweden and Finland. It 
offered transatlantic flights from Birmingham and Stansted airports in the UK.
A statement from the board said the airline had “no other choice than filing for bankruptcy” when it could not agree 
bridge financing with its bank. It said “several unforeseen events” had cost it significant amounts of money, 
including €10m to repair a plane suffering from corrosion and €20m to lease aeroplanes with crew after the late 
delivery of new aircraft.
The board also cited “the difficult environment airlines are facing now due to low prices and high fuel costs”, which 
other low-cost carriers including Ryanair and easyJet have recently cited as weighing on profits.
Primera was founded as charter airline JetX in 2003, before being bought by Primera Travel Group, which runs 
passenger travel agencies and tour operators in the Nordic region. Andri Ingólfsson is chief executive and owner of 
Primera Travel Group.
Low-cost airline Primera Air collapses after failing to secure funding
The UK’s Civil Aviation Authority said Primera was not covered by its Atol protection scheme, which stops 
passengers losing money or becoming stranded abroad.
Load-Date: October 1, 2018
End of Document
Stocks to watch: Royal Mail, easyJet , GE , Berkeley, Tesla , Just
Stocks to watch: Royal Mail, easyJet, GE, Berkeley, Tesla, Just
 
FT.com
October 1, 2018 Monday 4:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1063 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Monday 16:00 BST
Here’s what’s happening
● Royal Mail suffered the biggest daily fall since its 2013 flotation in reaction to a profit warning. 
Late in the session Royal Mail said costs savings would be much smaller than expected because its UK productivity 
programme was “significantly below plan”. The company also said letter volumes had been weaker than hoped, 
blaming “ongoing structural decline, business uncertainty and GDPR”. 
Royal Mail guided for full-year adjusted operating profit before transformation costs of between £500m and £550m, 
down as much as 28 per cent from 2017. Analysts had been expecting profit of about £577m on the same measure.
● Ryanair led the airlines sharply lower after warning about strike disruption and fuel costs. Its full-year net profit 
guidance fell from €1.25bn-€1.35bn to €1.1bn-€1.2bn, though the market consensus had already moved just below 
that range to take account of Ryanair’s purchase of lossmaking Laudamotion in August.
Most airline stocks are coming under pressure today, which is no surprise. Sector risk perception has 
deteriorated, with some early signs of macro softening in the sector, rising fuel prices and a higher risk of a 
hard Brexit — we think the sector may struggle to recover at least until Brexit uncertainty has been 
dispelled.Société Générale
Stocks to watch: Royal Mail, easyJet , GE , Berkeley, Tesla , Just
Bernstein downgraded easyJet from “market perform” to “underperform”. With a “flood of planes headed for 
Europe”, particularly in short haul, easyJet will struggle to pass rising fuel costs on to travellers, Bernstein said. It 
forecast easyJet’s 2019 earnings to drop 40 per cent year on year.
● UK housebuilders retreated after the Conservative party announced it was considering a stamp duty surcharge 
ranging from 1-3 per cent on foreign buyers. The Sunday Telegraph quoted Prime Minister Theresa May as saying: 
“We are very concerned about the impact that foreign buyers have on the housing market and the impact they have 
on people who are living here and trying to get into the housing market. The evidence is that foreign buyers coming 
in pushes house prices up and lowers home ownership here.”
While the proposed tax is nationwide, this is effectively a London-relevant tax, which is where the majority of 
foreign buyer activity takes place. The market here has already been slow for the past two years, and further 
taxation will likely lead to a further slowing in transactions. From the perspective of the homebuilders, we think 
an additional tax would likely have to be absorbed through price reduction. In our coverage, Berkeley Group 
has the largest exposure to London (over 80 per cent) and around 50 per cent of buyers are foreigners.UBS
● Annuities specialist Just Group led the FTSE 250 fallers on news that chief finance officer Simon Thomas was 
standing down after 12 years at the group. His departure comes ahead of a Prudential Regulation Authority review 
on how to treat equity-release mortgages, which has the potential to force Just Group into raising more capital.
● Tesla rebounded more than 17 per cent after Elon Musk agreed a settlement with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission over his take-private tweet that will see him step down as chairman and pay a $20m fine. Separately, 
the settlement also fined the company $20m and required it to appoint two independent directors, while establishing 
“a new committee of independent directors and put in place additional controls and procedures to oversee Musk’s 
communications”.
The bulls on Tesla will highlight that this is a great outcome for Tesla, which relative to the worst-case scenario 
of Elon Musk being removed as an executive at the company it is. However, we continue to have concerns 
around the company’s progress moving forward, notably cash burn, competition and the ability to drive down 
costs to effectively sell a $35,000 vehicle. We don’t object to more oversight of an eccentric executive, 
increased board independence and reining in the use of Twitter for Elon Musk — our sense is these are things 
that should have been done at Tesla in the first place and not reliant on SEC intervention.Cowen
● General Electric rebounded sharply from a near-10-year low after replacing John Flannery 14 months into his 
tenure as chief executive. Larry Culp, the former Danaher boss, took over with immediate effect. 
Merrill Lynch saw Mr Culp’s appointment as a long-term positive given his record turning around Danaher. With 
GE’s third-quarter results likely to come with a “hard reset” to earnings expectations because of problems at its 
Power division, the first step for Mr Culp should be a “significant dividend cut to shore up balance sheet”, followed 
by a potential acceleration of portfolio changes, Merrill said.
● Linde, the German industrial gas maker, led the Stoxx 600 gainers after China’s competition regulator approved 
its merger with US peer Praxair. Investors had been “particularly nervous about China’s stance on the deal given 
the deterioration in US-Sino trading relations”, said SocGen.
Sellside stories
● Merrill Lynch double-upgraded Antofagasta from “underperform” to “buy” with a £11 target. Its call was on a 
bullish view on copper, with Antofagasta “one of few investable pure-plays” in “an industry with many messy, 
complicated stories”.
Efforts by China’s policymakers to combat a weakening of the real economy with lending growth and cheaper credit 
would feed through to project funding towards the end of the year, potentially triggering a “tactical rebound in 
copper prices”, said Merrill. Antofagasta is a pure copper play whose improving operational delivery and brownfield 
expansion prospects justified a valuation of eight times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 
at the top of its peer group, said the broker.
Stocks to watch: Royal Mail, easyJet , GE , Berkeley, Tesla , Just
● In brief: AB InBev downgraded to “hold” at Jefferies; Barclays upgraded to “buy” at Berenberg; Castings raised to 
“buy” at Peel Hunt; RSA Insurance raised to “buy” at Berenberg; Sampo downgraded to “neutral” at JPMorgan 
Cazenove; Scor upgraded to “neutral” at Goldman Sachs; Serco upgraded to “neutral” at Citigroup; Telecom Italia 
cut to “underweight” at Barclays; Thomas Cook upgraded to “hold” at Berenberg; United Utilities raised to “buy” at 
Deutsche Bank; Vestas downgraded to “neutral” at JPMorgan.
Read more
Canadian dollar jumps on new Nafta deal
For market updates and comment follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Load-Date: October 2, 2018
End of Document
Airline stocks hit turbulence after Ryanair cuts profit outlook
Airline stocks hit turbulence after Ryanair cuts profit outlook
 
FT.com
October 1, 2018 Monday 7:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 152 words
Byline: Federica Cocco
Body
European air carriers dropped on Monday after low-cost airline Ryanair cut its profit guidance for the year due to 
rising oil prices, strikes and staff compensation costs. 
Airline stocks made up four of the top five biggest fallers on the pan-European Stoxx 600 in early trading on 
Monday. The Stoxx Europe 600 Travel and Leisure index — which comprises 19 companies — fell by as much as 
0.92 per cent, led by Ryanair’s 8 per cent share price fall.
After Ryanair, shares in EasyJet led the losses on the index, falling by as much as 5 per cent. British Airways owner 
IAG and Air France-KLM also registered falls of around 3 per cent. 
Other European airlines also in red were Wizz Air — down 3.8 per cent — and Lufthansa, down 2.5 per cent.
Ryanair, Europe’s largest low-cost carrier, warned in its guidance that worse may be to come if recent co-ordinated 
strikes across Europe continue to hit traffic and bookings. 
Load-Date: October 1, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cancels flights after strike by pilots and cabin crew
Ryanair cancels flights after strike by pilots and cabin crew
 
FT.com
September 28, 2018 Friday 6:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 603 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin and Naomi Rovnick in London
Body
Ryanair customers suffered more disruption on Friday after the European low-cost airline was forced to cancel 
flights due to a 24-hour walkout by pilots and cabin crew in Belgium, the Netherlands, Portugal, Italy and Germany. 
One year after a rostering crisis that led Ryanair to recognise trade unions for the first time in its 30-year history, the 
budget carrier is still struggling to overcome a long and bitter campaign by its staff for better pay and conditions in 
large parts of its network. 
This has hit investor confidence in the company’s leadership. A growing investor protest led almost 30 per cent of 
Ryanair shareholders to reject the re-election last week of David Bonderman, the US private equity tycoon who has 
been chairman of the airline for 22 years.
About 250 flights were cancelled on Friday as a result of the strike action, ramping up pressure on Michael O’Leary, 
chief executive, to make good on his promise to settle the disputes by Christmas. 
The airline and its passengers also suffered a wave of strikes during the summer, among them a walkout in five 
countries that led to the cancellation of 400 flights on August 10. 
Customers whose flights were affected on Friday received text messages and emails from Ryanair. Those affected 
can either apply for a refund or change to another flight free of charge. But the company said it was not required to 
pay compensation under EU rules because the strikes were beyond its control. 
Ryanair cancels flights after strike by pilots and cabin crew
The Dublin-based airline has entered into agreements with crew in Ireland, Italy and Britain and it has a recognition 
deal with one German union. 
But Mr O’Leary, who has long had fractious relations with cabin crew representatives, insists  Ryanair will not “roll 
over” in the face of industrial action by crew. He also said pay increases would add €200m to the airline’s annual 
costs. 
Some unions have sought the right to be hired under local law, seeking a change to Ryanair’s practice of recruiting 
under Irish law. Mr O’Leary has said the company has lobbied the Irish government to change the country’s tax law 
to facilitate such a move.
Ireland’s double taxation treaties require Ryanair to employ crew under Irish law in line with the company’s 
registration of aircraft in the country. 
At the same time, Ryanair has blamed workers at rival airlines for stoking the disputes. 
In a complaint this week to the European Commission, Ryanair claimed its talks with staff in some countries were 
being impeded by a “collective campaign” involving the European Cockpit Association and the International 
Transport Workers’ Federation. 
On Friday, Peter Bellew, Ryanair’s chief operations officer, claimed Germany’s VC union, which had urged the 
German pilot walkout, was “controlled” by its competitor Lufthansa. 
Mr Bellew also said it had already agreed to arbitration with the VC union over pay and conditions for its German 
pilots, who are seeking higher wages and improved contracts. 
“This is another example of a strike being organised in Ryanair by association by a union controlled by competitor 
airline employees, despite the fact that Ryanair has agreed to arbitration,” he said. 
The UK’s Local Authority Pension Fund Forum, whose members own about 1 per cent of Ryanair, said the airline 
had made “encouraging comments” about the treatment of staff at its annual meeting last week. 
“It’s up to the company to negotiate the details but we hope Ryanair will repair its troubled relationship with 
employees as soon as possible to end disruption for the company and its customers,” said Paul Doughty, an 
executive member of the forum who spoke at the annual meeting. 
Load-Date: October 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair: lairy O’Leary
Ryanair: lairy O’Leary
 
FT.com
September 28, 2018 Friday 3:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 340 words
Body
Ryanair’s swagger used to be justified. The airline’s reliability, low costs and the chutzpah of its leadership helped it 
become Europe’s largest by passenger numbers. But it  lost that crown in 2017. Over the past year, the company’s 
share price has dropped by a fifth, even as that of its rival easyJet rose by a tenth. Some of Ryanair’s traditional 
strengths have started to look like sources of weakness.
Consider its tight lid on labour expenses. On Friday, strikes disrupted 250 of its flights, in the latest wave of 
cancellations since a pilot rostering crisis blew up a year ago. Boss Michael O’Leary once said he would rather cut 
off his own hands than recognise a union. He relented last December but tensions continue to simmer.
There might be upside to recognising unions. Doing so in France, for example, paved the way for an expansion 
unveiled this week. But the shift of power to pilots is pushing up costs. Operating profit margins fell by 3 percentage 
points last year to 22 per cent. Staff costs per employee were €5.3 per passenger in 2017 and are likely to rise to 
€7 by 2020. With rising bills for fuel, profits are unlikely to grow over the next couple of years.
The staffing problems have put a spotlight on Ryanair’s governance failings. Mr O’Leary’s brash comments have 
inflamed disputes with workers. A more independent board would tell him to tone it down a bit. Chairman David 
Bonderman — in place for 22 years — was re-elected this month despite a shareholder protest. Investors need to 
be confident the next chairman will stand up to the chief executive.
Ryanair is still a solid business. Its ample liquidity should allow it to weather the disruption caused by a disruptive 
Brexit. It thinks it has a good chance of reclaiming the title of Europe’s largest airline this year, from Lufthansa. But 
some of the gloss has come off the model. A little humility would not go amiss.
Ryanair: lairy O’Leary
Lex recommends the FT’s Due Diligence newsletter, a curated briefing on the world of mergers and acquisitions. 
Sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: October 2, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair rejects investor pressure to oust chairman
Ryanair rejects investor pressure to oust chairman
 
FT.com
September 20, 2018 Thursday 10:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 507 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Gormanstown, Ireland
Body
Ryanair has rejected investor pressure for the departure of its long-serving chairman David Bonderman after a 
significant shareholder protest. 
Mr Bonderman, chairman for 22 years, was re-elected to the board with support of 70.5 per cent of shareholders at 
the company’s annual meeting.
But that left a sizeable number of investors who failed to back him with some openly calling for a clear succession 
plan. 
Alison Kennedy, of Aberdeen Standard Investments, which has a 0.9 per cent stake in the business, read a 
statement to the annual meeting in which she urged a plan be put in place to select his successor.
The lack of a plan “suggests a lack of focus on succession planning and suggests the board is not listening closely 
enough to shareholders”, Ms Kennedy said.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary said the “overwhelming” level of support for Mr Bonderman’s re-election would 
make a politician happy. Still, he doubted whether the chairman would stay for another two years. 
“He knows it won’t go on forever. We know it won’t go on forever,” Mr O’Leary told reporters after the meeting. 
“But frankly if we could encourage him to continue to chair the company for another couple of years, I personally 
would encourage him to do so. I don’t think he will.” 
Ryanair rejects investor pressure to oust chairman
Kyran McLaughlin, senior independent director and a member of the board for 17 years, said the board had 
changed over the years. “There are plans for rotation. There are plans for renewal,” he said
“It hasn’t been the same board over the last 20 years . . . We are aware of the views of certain shareholders. It is 
discussed at the nominations committee.” 
Mr O’Leary, who has faced demands from pilot unions to stand down, said he had accepted an invitation to enter 
talks on a new contract when his current one expires next year. 
The process would be “subject to extensive and what will undoubtedly be painful negotiations with Mrs O’Leary”, he 
said in a playful reference to his wife. 
Mr O’Leary, whose 4 per cent stake in Ryanair is worth €316m, said he would be happy to move to a rolling 12-
month deal from his current five-year contract. 
“I’m not sure whether I want to sign up for another five years. That would take me to 62,” he said. 
“The board suggests I should sign up for a longer period. It’s not going to be a difficult conversation . . . I’m happy to 
stay for another couple of years.” 
He said pay increases for cabin crew would add €200m to Ryanair’s annual costs, while the airline’s fuel costs 
would be €400m higher this year. 
He expressed confidence in the face of industrial unrest that the company would settle all pay discussions by 
Christmas. 
The company has been hit by industrial unrest and strikes that grounded some flights in the summer. 
An Irish agreement on pay would be the model for other agreements, Mr O’Leary said. 
“We are making good progress on union agreements despite what you read in the media,” he added. 
“We are not simply going to roll over and concede to every demand the unions make . . . We will not and cannot 
concede to unreasonable demands.”
Load-Date: October 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair boss says airline will not bow to strikes
Ryanair boss says airline will not bow to strikes
 
FT.com
September 12, 2018 Wednesday 11:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 470 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary reacted to the latest walkout by its German pilots on Wednesday by saying 
the airline was willing to put up with industrial action if it meant defending its cost base and ability to offer low fares.
At a press conference in London, he conceded that a series of strikes at the European carrier had “damaged 
customer confidence” and said he had acquired new a “humility” given recent problems.
He added: “We are not easyJet, we will not roll over every time we are threatened with a strike.”
Mr O’Leary also attacked the British government’s lack of progress on post-Brexit aviation arrangements, saying he 
had not spoken to transport secretary Chris Grayling in almost a year.
“There is every reason to believe the UK government would say in desperation ‘everyone is free to land here’, but 
there is no indication the reverse is true,” he said.
Mr O’Leary revealed that the German pilots’ union had proposed Gerhard Schroeder as arbitrator in their dispute, 
but Ryanair had rejected the country’s former chancellor saying he would take too long to get up to speed with the 
issues. Ryanair cancelled 150 German flights out of 400 on Wednesday.
In the wake of the British Airways data hack, where criminals stole the personal and credit card details of 380,000 
customers, Mr O’Leary said he was in no position to give advice to BA, given Ryanair’s troubles and the “enormous 
challenges around data protection” all large companies face.
Ryanair boss says airline will not bow to strikes
But he did take a swipe at BA, saying “we haven’t subcontracted out a lot of our IT and digital development”, which 
could make Ryanair’s website safer. BA has denied that outsourcing had anything to do with the hack.
Mr O’Leary’s remarks came after the airline was hit by a summer of strikes involving two days from Portuguese, 
Belgian and Spanish cabin crew unions and a walkout by pilots in five countries on August 10, forcing the airline to 
cancel 400 flights, or 15 per cent of its daily total.
The unions have a list of complaints, underpinned by Ryanair’s refusal to hire staff under local laws, with attendant 
rights and benefits; all staff are employed under Irish law.
Mr O’Leary said that they were “happy” to introduce local contracts but Irish tax law prevented this under certain 
circumstances. He said Ryanair would “certainly look at setting up” registration for its aircraft outside Ireland if the 
government did not change the law.
Last week, seven unions representing cabin crew, pilots and ground-handling staff from Italy, Portugal, Belgium, 
Spain and the Netherlands said they would announce a concerted strike for the end of this month.
In a letter, the combined unions demanded shareholders vote out Ryanair’s current board at the company’s annual 
meeting on September 20 as it was “incapable of having meaningful talks with the unions”.
Load-Date: September 13, 2018
End of Document
New Swiss budget airline launches fundraising
New Swiss budget airline launches fundraising
 
FT.com
September 9, 2018 Sunday 6:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 540 words
Byline: Ralph Atkins in Zurich and Josh Spero in London
Body
A Ryanair pilot and three other industry veterans hope to raise at least $100m in Switzerland this week to launch a 
low-cost, long-haul airline that defies the economic forces which have grounded some small European carriers in 
recent months.
The new airline — as yet unnamed — will focus initially on serving North America, and expects to undercut larger, 
established carriers with a cut-price service from Basel airport, on Switzerland’s border with France and Germany.
The founders believe their business model will avoid the problems which hit other carriers. Their move comes just 
weeks after the collapse of SkyWork airline, which served European destinations from Bern airport, Switzerland.
The past 18 months have also seen Air Berlin file for insolvency, the collapse of UK budget airline Monarch and of 
Belgium’s VLM. 
The Basel project — which has yet to decide on its branding but is using the working title “Swiss Skies” — could 
launch in mid-2019 if its fundraising is successful. The airline expects to have a cost base 30 per cent lower than 
established network carriers and to be profitable in its third year — with margins comfortably in excess of industry 
averages.
“There is undoubtedly potential in this area,” said Alex Paterson, an analyst at Investec. “The [low-cost, long haul] 
models are less well tested but would suggest that if you can use new aircraft well and have an efficient cost base, 
it is possible to start with a niche and then grow.”
New Swiss budget airline launches fundraising
As well as the US, the airline plans to add destinations in the Caribbean, Asia, Middle East and Brazil from a 
handful of European departure points. It does not, however, plan a UK operation because of the competitiveness of 
the country’s airline industry — and the uncertainty created by Brexit.
 “We want to see what is going to happen with the [EU] agreements on aviation after Brexit,” said Alvaro Oliveira, 
an entrepreneur and one of the founders who works as a part-time Ryanair captain on a self-employed basis.
“We have a full network prepared but because of the competition we don’t want it in the press right now,” said Armin 
Bovensiepen, another of the founders, who worked previously at Air Berlin and Austrian Airlines 
Rather than the traditional “hub and spoke” operations of the large national airlines, the new company will fly from 
point to point, using less popular airports near large urban catchment areas. It believes that will give it advantages 
over rivals such as Norwegian Air. The Basel region is home to many of Switzerland’s largest companies, including 
drugmakers Novartis and Roche. 
Mr Oliveria hinted one possible US destination could be Cincinnati — which also has a significant health sector 
industry. Currently, “if somebody wants to fly from Cincinnati to Basel, it’s a nightmare,” said Mr Oliveira.
Prices will be kept low by “unbundling” — breaking down prices and requiring passengers to pay extra for pre-
ordered food and onboard entertainment as well as seat allocations and baggage. 
Swiss Skies will cut costs further by using just one type of aircraft, the new long-range Airbus A321neo with about 
190 seats passengers and a range of 7,500km. The business plan envisages 16 aircraft by the second year of 
operation, and 38 by the fourth. 
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair unions in strike threat to oust board
Ryanair unions in strike threat to oust board
 
FT.com
September 7, 2018 Friday 5:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 511 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Unions across Europe have threatened low-cost carrier Ryanair with a concerted strike by the end of this month if 
shareholders do not oust the airline’s directors.
Seven unions representing cabin crew, pilots and ground-handling staff from Italy, Portugal, Belgium, Spain and the 
Netherlands said they would announce the strike no later than September 13.
In a letter on Friday, the combined unions demanded shareholders vote out Ryanair’s current board at the 
company’s annual general meeting on September 20 as it was “incapable of having meaningful talks with the 
unions”.
In a separate letter, Ryanair’s German pilots’ union said it had given the airline until noon on Monday to enter into 
arbitration over its collective labour agreement “to avoid further escalation in our conflict”.
The unions received a boost from two shareholder advisory companies on Friday. ISS urged shareholders to vote 
against the re-election of four directors, including chairman David Bonderman, and Pirc opposed most of the 
directors, including chief executive Michael O’Leary. A third advisory company, Glass Lewis, had already 
recommended voting against Mr Bonderman.
Pirc said it had concerns about the company’s gender pay gap (72 per cent, the worst in the industry) and criticised 
its “insufficient response” to a summer of industrial action, which had put shareholder value at stake.
Ryanair unions in strike threat to oust board
Last week, Stephen Cotton, general secretary of the International Transport Workers’ Federation, said: “In recent 
months Ryanair has shown its immaturity in industrial relations. At the end of last year [we] welcomed the prospect 
of a new era of co-operation with the company. Instead, we have seen the stalling, antagonism and underhanded 
tactics continue.”
Ryanair issued a statement saying that “shareholders will pass all AGM resolutions by a large majority this year, 
including the nomination of directors and chairman, as they have done in all previous years”. 
The carrier’s summer of strikes has involved two days from Portuguese, Belgian and Spanish cabin crew unions so 
far and a strike by pilots in five countries on August 10, forcing the airline to cancel 400 flights, or 15 per cent of its 
daily total.
The unions have a list of complaints, underpinned by Ryanair’s refusal to hire staff under local laws, with attendant 
rights and benefits; all staff are employed under Irish law.
There was some good news for Ryanair pilots on Friday as the carrier announced that it would restore six aircraft to 
Dublin this winter, having threatened to move them to Poland if the airline’s Irish pilots went on strike.
The pilots did strike, but after several days of mediation in August, including a 22-hour-long session, the airline and 
their union reached an agreement.
Ryanair’s chief people officer, Eddie Wilson, said: “The board and management of Ryanair are committed to union 
recognition, and working constructively with our people and their unions to address their reasonable concerns, as 
long as this does not alter Ryanair’s low-cost model or our ability to offer low fares to our customers.”
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Unions threaten Ryanair with fresh round of strikes
Unions threaten Ryanair with fresh round of strikes
 
FT.com
September 7, 2018 Friday 2:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 249 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London
Body
Unions from across Europe have threatened low-cost carrier Ryanair with a concerted strike by the end of 
September.
Mainly representing cabin crew, unions from Italy, Portugal, Belgium, Spain and the Netherlands said they would 
announce the strike no later than September 13.
It would represent the third day of strikes from Portuguese, Belgian and Spanish cabin crew after two days at the 
end of July.
The unions have a list of complaints, underpinned by Ryanair’s refusal to hire staff under local laws, with attendant 
rights and benefits. All cabin crew are employed under Irish law.
Also on Friday afternoon, Ryanair announced that it would restore six aircraft to Dublin this winter, having 
threatened to move them to Poland if the airline’s Irish pilots went on strike.
The pilots did strike, but after several days of mediation in August, including a 22-hour-long session, the airline and 
the union reached an agreement.
Ryanair’s chief people officer, Eddie Wilson, said: “The board and management of Ryanair are committed to union 
recognition, and working constructively with our people and their unions to address their reasonable concerns, as 
long as this does not alter Ryanair’s low cost model or our ability to offer low fares to our customers.”
Unions threaten Ryanair with fresh round of strikes
In an email to its members seen by the Financial Times, the union said it had reached a tentative agreement on two 
issues regarding “seniority”, which determines a pilot’s pay, promotion and home bases, and was still discussing 
annual leave.
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet boss suggests laws needed to increase female pilots
EasyJet boss suggests laws needed to increase female pilots
 
FT.com
September 7, 2018 Friday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 496 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of low-cost carrier easyJet has suggested legislation might be needed to increase the number 
of female pilots from its current low level.
Speaking at the Aviation Festival in London, Johan Lundgren said that setting targets could be useful, but 
“sometimes that is a slower process than some of the more aggressive methods like legislation”.
According to the International Society of Women Airline Pilots, only 6.7 per cent of pilots are female, and personal 
experiences of some women in the industry highlight disturbing examples of discrimination.
Mr Lundgren added: “History shows that [legislation] is quite effective, but I would hope to see that there is enough 
awareness and knowledge about the fact that these things are the right things to do.”
EasyJet has set a target to have women as 20 per cent of new entrant pilots by 2020. Only 6 per cent of its pilots 
are now women. It also has a gender pay gap of 46 per cent, since most of its highest-paid employees are pilots, 
who are largely men.
At the same conference in London, Robin Hayes, chief executive of US low-cost airline JetBlue, said encouraging 
more women into the industry was not just morally right but financially necessary: “In the US we’re going to face a 
shortage of maintenance technicians in the next 10 years . . . Securing the supply of pilots and maintenance 
technicians is extremely important otherwise it becomes a constraint for airlines to grow.”
EasyJet boss suggests laws needed to increase female pilots
Gender has been a live topic in the aviation industry this year particularly since Akbar Al Baker, the chief executive 
of Qatar Airways, said only a man could do his job: “Of course it has to be led by a man, because it is a very 
challenging position.”
He later said he had not meant women in general, rather that there was no particular woman ready to succeed him 
at Qatar, and apologised.
When he made the comment, he had just been appointed chairman of the board of governors of the global airline 
trade association, the International Air Transport Association, which has only two women among its 30 members.
The aviation industry has a serious gender pay gap, with its highest earners, pilots — mostly men and its lowest 
earners, cabin crew, often women. Ryanair’s most recently reported median hourly pay rate for women is 72 per 
cent lower than for men.
Also at the conference, Mr Lundgren said he did not expect Europe’s air traffic control disruptions, which have 
caused thousands of cancelled and delayed flights this summer, to improve in the short term.
He said Eurocontrol, which co-ordinates national ATC agencies, was “not giving you a great deal of hope that things 
will get better. Congestion is taking place and growth is happening to an extent that goes beyond what the 
infrastructure has been coping with. This summer is an example of that.”
EasyJet has filed a complaint with the European Commission about French air traffic controller strikes and 
shortages, saying they breach the EU’s fundamental freedom of movement.
Load-Date: September 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair chairman faces growing threat of investor protest
Ryanair chairman faces growing threat of investor protest
 
FT.com
September 4, 2018 Tuesday 8:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 655 words
Byline: Josh Spero and Attracta Mooney
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair’s chairman David Bonderman is facing a growing threat of a shareholder protest at the 
company’s annual meeting as calls mount for investors to vote against his re-election.
The International Transport Workers’ Federation and European Transport Workers’ Federation said on Tuesday 
that Mr Bonderman needed to be ousted to change what they called the company’s “virulently anti-union” culture.
The federations joined Glass Lewis, an influential shareholder advisory company, which last week recommended 
shareholders vote against Mr Bonderman, as well as two other directors, over governance concerns. 
Glass Lewis also called on shareholders to vote against executive pay at the company, suggesting the current plan 
was poorly designed. 
ISS, another significant advisory company, will deliver its verdict this week. The AGM will be held on September 20.
Mr Bonderman, who co-founded private equity business TPG, has been chairman of Ryanair since 1996. In 2017, 
he stepped down from the board of Uber after making a sexist comment during a meeting at the car-booking 
company.
Ryanair has been involved in bitter disputes with several of its unions, which have led to a summer of strikes. On 
August 10, Irish, German, Belgian, Swedish and Dutch pilots took industrial action, forcing the airline to cancel 400 
flights, or 15 per cent of its daily total.
Ryanair chairman faces growing threat of investor protest
Stephen Cotton, ITF general secretary, said: “In recent months Ryanair has shown its immaturity in industrial 
relations. At the end of last year ITF, ETF and our affiliates welcomed the prospect of a new era of co-operation 
with the company. Instead, we have seen the stalling, antagonism and underhanded tactics continue.”
Ryanair predicted that shareholders would pass all AGM resolutions by a large majority this year, including the 
nomination of directors and chairman, as they had done in all previous years. It said that shareholders “appreciate 
how fortunate we are to have an outstanding chairman like David Bonderman to guide the board and the airline”.
Last year, more than 10 per cent of investors voted against Mr Bonderman’s re-election, after Glass Lewis, ISS and 
Pirc, another shareholder adviser, flagged concerns about the chairman. 
This year, Glass Lewis called for a vote against Mr Bonderman over his role as chair of the nominations committee 
in appointing Kyran McLaughlin, who advised Ryanair during its initial flotation on the Dublin and Nasdaq stock 
markets in 1997, as a senior independent director. The proxy adviser said Mr McLaughlin was “not considered 
independent”. 
“We believe that it is the responsibility of the chair of the nominations committee, who is consequently also the chair 
of the board, to appoint a truly independent senior independent director to ensure proper oversight,” it added.
Glass Lewis also criticised the company for “poor disclosure” around pay, despite chief executive Michael O’Leary’s 
decision to waive his bonus following the pilot rostering problems. 
“Shareholders should be concerned by the structure of the company’s executive remuneration programme and the 
inadequacy of disclosure regarding several aspects of executive compensation,” it added.
The employees’ demands have centred around improved pay and terms, including seniority, and, for non-Irish staff, 
the application of national, not Irish, law to govern contracts.
Ryanair decided to recognise some unions after more than 30 years when a scheduling crisis in September 2017 
forced it to cancel 2,000 flights. It had to pay €25m in compensation to passengers for the cancellations.
It has had some recent success, signing a collective labour agreement with some of its Italian pilots, the first with 
any of its unions, in late August.
Its Irish pilots’ union has also agreed to ballot its members on proposals regarding seniority, which determines a 
pilot’s pay, promotion and home bases. Irish pilots have staged five days of strikes this summer.
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
FT business books of the month: September edition
FT business books of the month: September edition
 
FT.com
September 4, 2018 Tuesday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1574 words
Byline: FT reporters
Body
The Financial Times rounds up its favourite business reads of the month, which include a reflection on the man who 
made Ryanair, chief executive Michael O’Leary, the superpowers of artificial intelligence, and an introduction to 
algorithms’ impact on human behaviour.
Wisdom at Work: The Making of a Modern Elder, by Chip Conley
Anyone feeling jaded, jejune or just plain past it at work can read this book in a morning and feel revived. If you 
manage to do even a tenth of the things that Conley suggests, which include collaborating with others, taking a long 
look at yourself and your core values, going into a new company as an intern and being curious about what you find 
there, then you may be able to shake off your malaise and reinvent yourself as a “modern elder” of the title. As 
Conley tells it, there are opportunities galore for anyone seeking later-life adventure and reinvention.
Conley was the founder of a US boutique hotel chain and is now a strategic consultant for Airbnb. He is a 
bestselling business book author (Peak: How Great Companies Get Their Mojo From Maslow and several more). 
He knows how to write, and his enthusiasm keeps this book zipping along. Particularly helpful is his advice to 
consider hard-earned life and work experience as a bonus (rather than feeling undermined by tech-savvy 
millennials) and marry it with a curiosity and a desire to help others. 
Conley’s pitch to Gen-Xers and baby boomers is that they should cast off their egos and leadership burdens and 
think more like mentors (or become “menterns”— both mentor and intern).
FT business books of the month: September edition
There is a lot of Californian psychobabble in here that some may find off-putting but the general vibe is irrepressible 
fun and the book is useful. Plus there is a great index with lots of suggestions for further reading, films to watch and 
(inevitably) inspiring TED talks. 
Hello World: How to be Human in the Age of the Machine, by Hannah Fry
Hannah Fry, associate professor in the maths of cities at University College London and a presenter of science 
documentaries, is a clear guide to the omnipresent algorithms. Hello World: How to be a human in the Age of the 
Machine is a sweeping introduction to humans’ impact on algorithms and algorithms’ impact on human behaviour. 
Take for example the residents of Scunthorpe in the north of England, who were unable to set up AOL accounts 
due to the tech company’s profanity block (the second to fifth letters of the town’s name raised the computer’s 
hackles), a good example of both technology creating hurdles but also the coders’ oversight. Fry takes the reader 
through diverse subjects of politics, crime, art and medicine. 
Ultimately she argues not that algorithms are inherently good or bad but that they need to take into account the 
human at every stage. The best ones, she writes, are those that “recognise our habit of over-trusting the output of a 
machine, while embracing their own flaws and wearing their uncertainty proudly front and centre”.
Imagine It Forward: Courage, Creativity and the Power of Change, by Beth Comstock
Imagination is a “universal human talent”, yet according to Beth Comstock, former vice-chair of General Electric, 
businesses are often failing to use it. She calls this the “imagination gap, where possibility and options for the future 
go to die”.
Comstock draws on her 25-years’ experience at GE — where she was head of innovation and marketing — to 
provide a guide on how organisations can avoid failure and irrelevance by learning to navigate today’s relentless 
pace of change, and how they can open their culture and innovate more quickly when faced with disruption.
She believes that when it comes to reinvention there is a systematic approach that can be applied to virtually any 
company in any industry.
Split into five sections, including “agitated inquiry” (how innovation comes from seeking out tension, not avoiding it) 
and “story craft” (a company’s successful innovation comes from creating a new narrative), her experience shows a 
large company can adjust, experiment and learn to think differently.
Connecting the Dots: Lessons for Leadership in a start-up World, by John Chambers
In boiling the story of his life and career down into a few digestible lessons, Chambers has plenty of raw material. 
He enjoyed 20 years at the top of Cisco Systems, which included surviving the aftermath of the first dotcom bust, 
when the technology company lost 80 per cent of its share price and a quarter of its customers.
The lessons include familiar ones about how to reinvent the business to ride through disruption while maintaining 
the underlying mission. Chambers’ approach can be a little cheesy, not to say contradictory. He pays tribute to the 
team around him at Cisco, hailing their “passion, discipline, innovation and teamwork of Cisco’s people” and paints 
himself as a humble West Virginian. But he also personalises the success the company achieved and puts himself 
at the centre of the tale as a world-conquering leader.
There are other difficult balancing acts. Chambers not only focuses on the big-company challenges that Cisco 
faced, notably the acquisition and integration of 180 different companies, he also tries to show how to apply his 
lessons to start-ups. Presumably, these will include enterprises that will in future try to bring down the big company 
he once headed. 
Michael O’Leary: Turbulent Times for the Man Who Made Ryanair, by Matt Cooper
FT business books of the month: September edition
In a world of colourless corporate leaders, Ryanair’s aggressive, mouthy chief executive provides catnip for 
journalists. Cooper, an award-winning Irish writer and reporter, makes the most of the opportunity to dissect his 
colourful subject.
Cooper’s book is as much an analysis of the behind-the-scenes drama at the low-cost airline — including, for 
example, his turbulent relationship with founder Tony Ryan — as it is a review of Michael O’Leary’s well-chronicled 
public performances. O’Leary emerges as a taker of calculated risks, a wily strategist and an uncompromising 
micromanager, with as many enemies as supporters.
The unanswered question is whether time has now run out for the entrepreneurial Irishman. As the author 
acknowledges, this is an unfinished story, as  this summer’s series of strikes at the low-cost airline has shown. 
Despite repeated suggestions he may have mellowed, O’Leary is still the pugnacious, money-motivated scrapper of 
Ryanair’s early years, according to Cooper. The difference is that he now heads a far larger and more complex 
organisation facing unprecedented challenges to the model that he has always championed.
Create Space: How to Manage Time and Find Focus, Productivity and Success, by Derek Draper
We are the first generation who, rather than having the need to fill time and space, have the need to create it. This 
somewhat overwhelming concept is the basis of business consultant and former political adviser Derek Draper’s 
practical book on how professionals can stop feeling rushed and “create space”, in order to feel, perform and 
connect better with others.
The book is divided into five chapters: one each exploring how to reflect, build stronger relationships, deliver at work 
and grow as a person, with a final guide on how to set goals and achieve them. Full of models and tools, the book 
makes for an easy bedside read for someone looking to change the way they work.
Thought exercises and tips are interspersed with 12 real-life case studies from Draper’s decade-long experience 
coaching executives. These anecdotes are unnecessarily protracted at times, but the book’s structure makes it 
easy to jump between topics and engage with the stories most relevant to you. 
The Expertise Economy, by Kelly Palmer and David Blake
Written by Kelly Palmer and David Blake of Degreed, a digital education platform, they share insights, based on 
research, on how the smartest companies use education to stay competitive. 
The authors offer seven guiding principles for executives on how to create experts by “upskilling” employees. 
Leaders are encouraged to build a culture where education is part of a company’s strategy, and where workers use 
technology to personalise and integrate their training into their work.
The book urges managers to use data analytics to determine what skills their existing employees have, and what 
skills they lack. The results can be used to mentor, promote and recruit better, they say.
AI Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley and the New World Order, by Kai-Fu Lee
Who will rule artificial intelligence, the most strategic area of future technology: the US, or China? That’s the 
question that Chinese investor Kai-Fu Lee, the man who launched Google China, sets out to answer in AI 
Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley and the New World Order.
The answer rests on whether you believe AI depends on innovation, in which the US still leads, or implementation 
of existing technologies and the leveraging of the world’s largest potential data trove — the Middle Kingdom. 
A full review of this title will appear in  FT Weekend this month.
Also out in September are Billion Dollar Whale, by Tom Wright and Bradley Hope, about the scandal-ridden 
1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) state investment fund, and Who Is Michael Ovitz?, a no-holds-barred 
autobiography, both of which have been longlisted for the  FT’s Business Book of the Year Award.
FT business books of the month: September edition
Reviews by Andrew Hill, Janina Conboye, Rana Foroohar, Patricia Nilsson, Emma Jacobs, Isabel Berwick and 
Tatjana Mitevska
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
KLM makes pact with pilots to avoid industrial action
KLM makes pact with pilots to avoid industrial action
 
FT.com
September 4, 2018 Tuesday 4:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 426 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Pilots at KLM have reached a labour agreement with the Dutch airline and will call off their preparations for 
industrial action.
After mediation, the Association of Dutch Pilots (VNV) said the airline had listened to its concerns. “The 
changes . . . tackle the too-high pressure,” it said.
KLM said it was “delighted” to have reached an agreement and “hopes that a line can now be drawn under a 
difficult period. KLM wishes now to join with the VNV to concentrate on the challenges ahead”.
The agreement is good news for Benjamin Smith, new chief executive of the Air France-KLM parent group, who is 
due to start at the end of this month. Unlike the group’s French unions, which said it was “inconceivable” for a non-
French national to become group chief executive, the VNV had welcomed Mr Smith.
The Dutch union called its French counterparts’ rejection of Mr Smith “one-dimensional” for judging him by his 
nationality and wished him “all the luck he needs”.
The VNV had started to ballot its members in mid-August after a dispute over whether a 4 per cent reduction in 
working hours would begin in September 2018 or September 2019.
William Schmid, VNV vice-president, said at the time: “Apparently making profits is more important than growth and 
investing in their own people who helped KLM through the crisis.”
KLM makes pact with pilots to avoid industrial action
KLM has generally had positive relations with its unions, including during AF-KLM’s crisis at the start of the decade 
when the carrier introduced “wage moderation” with the consent of the pilots. The group said it had to reduce its 
debt by €2bn between 2012 and 2014.
When the union threatened to strike, Joost van Doesburg of VNV said that this good will should have been taken 
into account since pilots had previously agreed to no salary rises and a 12 per cent increase in productivity.
Industrial action at KLM would have been particularly painful to the group as it has been the success story of late. In 
the group’s first-half results, KLM’s revenue rose 4.9 per cent to €5.2bn, while Air France’s fell 1.4 per cent to 
€7.5bn. KLM made an operating profit of €388m; Air France lost €164m.
VNV is engaged in another airline dispute. Its members who work for Ryanair went on strike on August 10, 
alongside pilots from Ireland, Germany, Belgium and Sweden, forcing the airline to cancel 400 flights, or 15 per cent 
of its daily total, at the height of the summer holiday season.
The employees’ demands have centred on improved pay and terms, including seniority, and, for non-Irish staff, the 
application of national, not Irish, law to govern contracts.
Load-Date: September 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair accuses UK air traffic control of ‘discrimination’
Ryanair accuses UK air traffic control of ‘discrimination’
 
FT.com
September 3, 2018 Monday 4:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 570 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair has accused Britain’s air traffic control service of “blatant discrimination” against it and 
other airlines at London’s Stansted airport as it announced it was submitting a legal complaint to the European 
Commission.
It highlighted figures from the Civil Aviation Authority, CAA, that showed 52 per cent of air traffic delays at airports in 
London in the first quarter happened at Stansted, where Ryanair has its largest base and runs 65 per cent of the 
airport’s services.
Luton airport had 30 per cent of the delays while Heathrow had none, prompting Ryanair to claim that NATS, the air 
traffic control manager, had given Heathrow, Britain’s busiest airport, “special treatment”.
The airline said it was submitting formal complaints to the European Commission and to the CAA to stir them into 
action, but it declined to provide a copy of the commission complaint.
Stansted said it was also considering making a formal complaint to the CAA about what it called the airport’s 
“disproportionate share of ATC [air traffic control] delays”.
This is not the first complaint Irish-based Ryanair has filed with the commission in the past few months about air 
traffic control.
Ryanair accuses UK air traffic control of ‘discrimination’
In July, alongside airline group IAG, easyJet and Wizz Air, it submitted a legal complaint saying the commission 
should take action over French air traffic control strikes and shortages, claiming they breached “the fundamental 
principle of free movement within the EU”.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair’s chief operating officer, said: “We call on the UK Department for Transport and the European 
Commission to take urgent action to ensure that [NATS] is fully staffed and treats each London airport fairly. NATS 
don’t have enough staff.”
NATS said staffing numbers would not make a difference and that the introduction of new technology, delivered at 
other airports too, had caused Stansted’s problems.
“All airlines and airports were notified of the timetable in advance and understood the new technology will help us 
increase capacity safely in the future. NATS does not discriminate between airlines or airports.”
In 2017, Gatwick airport suffered the most delays (34 per cent), with Stansted close behind (28 per cent). Last year 
Stansted had 26m passengers and 190,000 flights.
This is not the first time Ryanair has accused NATS of neglecting its duty. 
In 2016, together with Stansted airport, it instigated an investigation by the CAA after saying NATS had “unduly 
preferred” certain airports, thus “preventing, restricting or distorting competition”.
In its report, the CAA found “no evidence” of undue preference or discrimination but said NATS did need to take 
remedial action regarding staffing shortfalls. The CAA said it would consider any new complaint when it had been 
received.
Ryanair’s first-quarter results showed that air traffic control problems had forced the airline to cancel more than 
2,500 flights, affecting 450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in compensation than the same 
quarter last year.
The complaints come as Ryanair has been experiencing a summer of strikes, with pilots and cabin crews across 
Europe co-ordinating industrial action in disputes over pay, terms and conditions. 
On August 10, pilots’ unions in Ireland, Germany, Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands staged strikes, forcing the 
airline to cancel 400 flights, or 15 per cent of its daily total, at the height of the summer holiday season.
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair agrees collective labour pact with Italian pilots
Ryanair agrees collective labour pact with Italian pilots
 
FT.com
August 28, 2018 Tuesday 10:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 430 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair has signed a collective labour agreement with some of its Italian pilots, the first with any of 
its unions, after this summer’s strikes.
Italy has Ryanair’s third-largest group of pilots, with about 830, a fifth of the airline’s total. About a third of the Italian 
pilots are represented by the Anpac union.
“We welcome this first CLA [collective labour agreement] with our Italian pilots and hope that it will be shortly 
followed by a similar agreement covering our Irish pilots,” said Eddie Wilson, Ryanair’s chief people officer. 
“We have invited our UK, German and Spanish unions to meet with us in the coming days so that we can negotiate 
and hopefully agree similar pilot CLAs in these other larger markets. 
“These agreements demonstrate the real progress being made by Ryanair in its negotiations with its pilots and their 
unions across different EU markets.”
One analyst described this as “playing divide and conquer quite well”, given that there are two other Italian pilot 
unions. It could also put pressure on other restive unions across Europe.
Shares in Ryanair rose 2.5 per cent to €14.24 by mid-afternoon on Tuesday.
Ryanair agrees collective labour pact with Italian pilots
The deal was the second piece of good news recently for the airline after its Irish pilots’ union last week agreed to 
ballot its members on proposals regarding seniority, which determines a pilot’s pay, promotion and home bases. 
Irish pilots have staged five days of strikes so far this summer.
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said positive progress was “clearly welcome” but until the details of both the 
Italian and Irish agreements became public, it would be hard to tell what their long-term effects were on costs. She 
added that “near-term earnings risk is abating”.
 Ryanair has been beset by strikes from its pilots and cabin crew in several countries this summer. On August 10, 
Irish, German, Belgian, Swedish and Dutch pilots took industrial action, forcing the airline to cancel 400 flights, or 
15 per cent of its daily total. Its Italian pilots have not gone on strike, but its Italian cabin crew have.
The employees’ demands have centred around improved pay and terms, including seniority, and, for non-Irish staff, 
the application of national, not Irish, law to govern contracts.
At a meeting in Frankfurt last week, unions from across Europe agreed to hold more strikes but did not announce a 
date.
The company decided to recognise some unions after more than 30 years when a scheduling crisis in September 
2017 forced it to cancel 2,000 flights. It had to pay €25m in compensation to passengers for the cancellations.
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to cut hand luggage allowance
Ryanair to cut hand luggage allowance
 
FT.com
August 24, 2018 Friday 11:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 274 words
Byline: Camilla Hodgson
Body
Low cost airline Ryanair has cut its hand luggage policy for the second time in a year, restricting customers to a 
single small bag unless they pay €6 for priority boarding in a move it said would cut delays.
From November, non-priority customers will be permitted to bring only “one free (small) carry-on bag”, as opposed 
to the small bag and additional bigger bag of up to 10kg currently permitted for free, the airline said.
The policy will apply to all bookings made from September 1.
The airline said the move would “cut check bag fees and reduce boarding delays,” and that the volume of free 
second non-checked bags “has been causing flight delays”.
Last year the airline said it planned to crack down on carry-on wheelie bags because the number being taken per 
flight was stalling take-offs while passengers tried to cram their luggage into overhead lockers. From November 
2017, passengers that had not paid for priority boarding were restricted to a single piece of hand luggage.
Ryanair has also suffered a series of problems this summer, with hundreds of flight cancellations prompted by cabin 
crew and pilot strikes and the company now facing large passenger compensation bills. 
On Thursday, the airline said a new, cheaper fee for checked bags would also be introduced, of £8 per 10kg bag, 
compared to the current £25 per 20kg bag option.
Ryanair to cut hand luggage allowance
Priority boarding customers, which currently account for 30 per cent of passengers, will continue to be allowed a 
second free bag of up to 10kg. 
Ryanair said it expected around 40 per cent of its customers to be affected by the change, since 30 per cent 
currently travel with only one free small bag.
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair reaches deal with pilots to end strikes
Ryanair reaches deal with pilots to end strikes
 
FT.com
August 23, 2018 Thursday 7:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 493 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London
Body
Ryanair and its Irish pilots’ union have announced an agreement on their labour contract, potentially bringing an 
end to the summer of strikes.
After several days of mediation, including a 22-hour-long session starting on Wednesday morning, the Forsa union 
said the agreement would go to a ballot of its members. The union recommended acceptance but declined to 
comment further.
 Ryanair said: “Ryanair will take these proposals to its board in due course after the Irish based pilots have voted on 
this signed agreement.” 
The company’s shares were up 6.7 per cent to €14.04 in mid-morning trading.
In an email to its members seen by the Financial Times, the union said it had reached a tentative agreement on two 
issues regarding “seniority”, which determines a pilot’s pay, promotion and home bases, and was still discussing 
annual leave.
Joost van Doesburg of the Dutch VNV pilots’ union, which has gone on strike this summer, said: “We still have 
some questions, because is it a national Irish seniority list — that would be in our opinion quite useless — or will 
this be a master seniority list for all Ryanair pilots in Europe? Then it would be a very positive intermediate step.”
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said: “The issue is that while [Ryanair is] saying that they’re going to recognise 
unions and negotiate with them was a very quick process, actually getting there is a much more drawn-out affair.”
Ryanair reaches deal with pilots to end strikes
Forsa’s members, who account for about a third of Ryanair’s Irish pilots, have gone on strike five times this 
summer, most recently on August 10, when they were joined by pilots from Germany, Belgium, Sweden and the 
Netherlands. The airline was forced to cancel 400 flights, or 15 per cent of its daily total.
Ryanair’s pilots’ unions on Monday met in Frankfurt to discuss further strike action, with one person at the meeting 
saying a new strike had been agreed with a date to be confirmed.
The person said: “The countries that were in the meeting . . . are still in strike mode instead of negotiation mode.”
The person added that the Irish agreement might give Ryanair more time to concentrate on its disputes with its 
other unions, which want to discuss pay increases and the use of national, not Irish, law for employment contracts. 
Neither was an issue with the Irish pilots.
The company decided to recognise some unions after more than 30 years when a scheduling crisis in September 
2017 forced it to cancel 2,000 flights. It had to pay €25m in compensation to passengers for the cancellations.
Despite recognising a handful of unions for pilots and cabin crew, Ryanair has until now not concluded labour 
agreements with any of them.
Ryanair’s cabin crew unions have also been on strike. In July, unions in Spain, Portugal and Belgium staged two 
days of industrial action, and cabin crew in 21 countries have published a charter of demands, including a “fair living 
wage”, seniority pay, predictable working hours and the application of national law.
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair error short-changes some passengers owed compensation
Ryanair error short-changes some passengers owed compensation
 
FT.com
August 22, 2018 Wednesday 8:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 414 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair has left some customers owed compensation short-changed after it sent them unsigned 
cheques they were unable to cash. 
Ryanair said that an “admin error” had resulted in a “tiny number of cheques” — less than 190 out of over 20,000 
compensation cheques in July — being posted without a required signatory. 
Passenger Gordon Fong  tweeted earlier this month that he had received a compensation cheque quickly from the 
airline, but that his bank had refused it because there was no signature. 
The BBC, which first revealed the claims, reported at least 10 other instances of unsigned cheques.
The airline said the affected cheques had been reissued last week and apologised to customers for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Ryanair passengers have been beset by delays and cancellations in the past year. The airline cancelled more than 
2,000 flights in September 2017 after a rostering problem left it short of pilots, costing it €25m in compensation.
In the second quarter of this year, strikes and shortages of air traffic controllers led to 2,500 flights being cancelled, 
affecting 450,000 passengers.
Ryanair error short-changes some passengers owed compensation
And its pilots and cabin crew have been staging industrial action all summer in a dispute over pay, conditions and 
employment contracts. On August 10, pilots from Ireland, Germany, Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands struck, 
forcing the airline to cancel 400 flights.
In the event of a significant delay or outright cancellation within the airline’s control, passengers are entitled to 
compensation under EU regulations. For a flight of 1,500km or less, the compensation is €250, and it rises to €600 
under certain conditions. Air traffic control strikes are not generally covered by EU regulations.
Ryanair is not the only airline that has been hit with increased compensation claims. IAG, which owns British 
Airways and low-cost Vueling, paid out 3 per cent more in compensation costs in the first half of 2018 because of 
air traffic control strikes, which “significantly impacted” Vueling’s operations.
In easyJet’s first-half results, it too reported “higher disruption costs” due to poor weather and compensation claims.
This cheque failure came against a background of falling passenger happiness in flying in general, according to the 
UK Aviation Consumer Survey. Overall satisfaction has dropped from 90 per cent in March 2016 to 83 per cent in 
April 2018, and satisfaction with airport experience has declined from 83 per cent to 78 per cent over the same 
period.
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Europe’s airline strikes highlight need for reform
Europe’s airline strikes highlight need for reform
 
FT.com
August 22, 2018 Wednesday 12:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 971 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Last month, Europe’s airline passengers experienced more than 135,000 minutes of in-flight delays on average 
each day. Put another way, that is 94 days’ worth of delays every day — more than double the year before.
A lack of capacity and strikes were the main cause of the troubles, said Eurocontrol, which compiled the data and is 
responsible for the safety of air navigation in Europe.
In France, air traffic controllers took frequent industrial action, which meant aircraft were often unable to fly over the 
country.
Indeed, this summer’s delays highlight structural problems afflicting the European airline sector. 
Ryanair has been a notable casualty, but delays and disruption have hit all the main carriers, such as IAG, easyJet 
and Air France-KLM. 
For the companies, the reputational damage and compensation costs are growing, putting further pressure on the 
need for Europe-wide legislative reform.
The European Commission’s answer to the problems is the Single European Sky initiative — an overarching air 
traffic management project aimed at increasing capacity and decreasing disruption, which are aims supported by 
the airlines.
Europe’s airline strikes highlight need for reform
This has already turned more than 40 separate airspaces into nine “functional airspace blocks”, which exist 
regardless of state boundaries. The Blue Med block, for example, covers Italy, Malta, Greece and Cyprus.
But some say reforms are not working as countries jealously guard their sovereignty. Thomas Reynaert, managing 
director of carrier-funded lobbying group Airlines for Europe, said governments do not want the “social unrest” of 
reducing staff. 
“The FABs have failed, the concept or the hope we all put in them has failed . . . It’s still officially the ambition to 
make them work but if you look at the France-Benelux one, that hasn’t worked at all,” he said.
Claire Davies, a director at aviation consultancy Helios, which works with the commission on the implementation of 
the Single European Sky project, agreed that its results so far have been “lacklustre”. 
“As an airline,” said Ms Davies, “you can understand why they are dissatisfied . . . Traffic levels are once again on 
the rise and actually delays are starting to creep back up.”
The worry for the airlines is that without reforms European airspace will become more disrupted in the next few 
decades, regardless of strikes or industrial action.
Eurocontrol, which co-ordinates national air traffic control agencies, said “core” European markets would have 
average growth in demand for flights of 40 per cent to 55 per cent, or as many as 900 extra flights each day, 
between 2017 and 2040.
“In what is already today the most complex and busy airspace in Europe, even a small percentage change is an 
operationally significant increase in traffic,” Eurocontrol said.
Yet there is cause for optimism. Ms Davies points to technological advances improving air traffic management, 
supported by SESAR, a Europe-wide collaborative research programme. 
So far, it has developed better “network management” (brokering decisions across borders about which aircraft 
should fly when) and free route airspace (allowing aircraft to plot their own course, rather than follow predefined 
ones). These bring environmental and economic efficiencies.
Michael Standar, who is head of strategy and external affairs at SESAR, said airlines’ initial enthusiasm for the 
Single European Sky project had dwindled but was now reviving after increasing air traffic management troubles. 
He cited SESAR’s move to enable aircraft to plot their routes into airports from further out as one success; another 
was the development of remote towers, so air traffic management can be done at a distance. 
Focus has lately been shifting from FABs to a continent-wide solution. The European Upper Information Region 
could unify upper airspace under one set of rules and allow overflights even during national strikes.
However, Jonathan Astill, director of international affairs at NATS, one of the UK’s providers of air traffic 
management services, said: “Nobody can really fully describe what they mean by the EUIR.” 
It could mean “one big line that goes around the boundary of all the EU states and creates one single airspace”, but 
he said free route airspace would achieve the same thing. He also pointed to the concentrated risk of fewer air 
traffic management centres.
Although the EUIR concept is still insufficiently defined, said Ms Davies, the European Parliament did see it “as a 
possible way of accelerating the Single European Sky” and making up what FABs did not achieve.
As for the airline bosses, their patience is reaching its limits. 
The problems in France even prompted Michael O’Leary, Ryanair head, and Willie Walsh, chief executive of British 
Airways owner IAG, to hold a joint press conference in June.
Europe’s airline strikes highlight need for reform
They announced they would file legal complaints with the European Commission, saying French air traffic control 
strikes were a breach of the EU’s fundamental freedom of movement.
Mr O’Leary has been particularly incensed by the strikes. The carrier has had to cancel more than 2,500 flights, 
affecting 450,000 people, because of air traffic control walkouts. 
This summer’s disruption has also brought the attention of the problems to some of Europe’s most senior transport 
officials, who recognise that the continent needs to resuscitate its efforts to improve air traffic management. 
In a recent joint statement, Violeta Bulc, EU commissioner for transport, and Karima Delli, chair of the European 
Parliament’s committee on transport and tourism, said: “The system needs an urgent upgrade. Now is the moment 
to be bold.”
But they conceded that progress rested with nation states. Given past experience, this suggests any steps forward 
may be a long time in coming. An angry Mr O’Leary may be fighting the French air traffic controllers for a while yet. 
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Further strikes on agenda as Ryanair pilots meet
Further strikes on agenda as Ryanair pilots meet
 
FT.com
August 19, 2018 Sunday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 539 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair pilot unions will meet in Frankfurt on Monday to discuss the possibility of further strikes after industrial 
action earlier this month caused the cancellation of hundreds of flights.
A number of national unions will review recent strikes and discuss next steps, under the umbrella of the European 
Cockpit Association. On August 10, Ryanair had to cancel 400 flights, or 15 per cent of its daily total, after pilots in 
Ireland, Germany, Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands walked out.
The unions have been asking for improved pay and conditions, as well as employment contracts under national, not 
Irish, law. Ryanair has said that any increase in salaries would harm its low-cost business model.
Joost van Doesburg of the Dutch VNV union said: “We believe that there has been no culture change yet at 
Ryanair, they are not open for good discussions regarding our demands and in that way we believe that there will 
be new strikes.”
One problem for Ryanair is that its unions across Europe are synchronising their efforts. Irish union Forsa has said: 
“Company management has previously attempted to paint its Irish pilots as outliers, saying that it was doing deals 
and conducting successful negotiations elsewhere in Europe.”
Ryanair has been engaged in third-party mediation with Forsa after direct negotiations broke down; the union has 
staged five days of strikes this summer.
Further strikes on agenda as Ryanair pilots meet
The company decided to recognise some unions after more than 30 years when a scheduling crisis in September 
2017 forced it to cancel 2,000 flights. It had to pay €25m in compensation to passengers for the cancellations.
Despite recognising a handful of unions for pilots and cabin crew, Ryanair has not concluded labour agreements 
with any of them. Balpa, the British pilots’ union recognised by Ryanair, has expressed dissatisfaction: “The basic 
problem is that, frankly, Ryanair is still coming to terms with what dealing with trade unions is all about and they are 
struggling to adjust.”
In March 2018, pilots’ unions from across Europe formed the Ryanair Transnational Pilot Group for “effective 
collective representation for all Ryanair pilots regardless of country or base”, the group said.
At the time, ECA secretary-general Philip von Schöppenthau said union recognition had been “a long overdue 
necessity” and that Ryanair now had to “recognise [pilots’] collective voice on the many transnational issues and 
concerns they share”.
Ryanair’s cabin crew unions have also been on strike. In July, unions in Spain, Portugal and Belgium staged two 
days of industrial action, and cabin crew in 21 countries have published a charter of demands, including a “fair living 
wage”, seniority pay, predictable working hours and the application of national law.
On Friday, cabin crew unions from Spain, Portugal, Italy and Belgium wrote to Ryanair’s shareholders urging them 
to adopt a more union-friendly business model. The unions said: “What we don’t believe is that current 
management has the necessary trust from the employees or the skillset to perform these changes.”
The carrier’s shares have slightly recovered from their 12-month low of €12.94, which they hit on August 10, the day 
of the concerted strikes.
Ryanair did not respond to a request for comment.
Load-Date: September 17, 2018
End of Document
Got the Ryanair blues? This is how to claim compensation
Got the Ryanair blues? This is how to claim compensation
 
FT.com
August 15, 2018 Wednesday 4:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 884 words
Byline: Helen Dewdney
Body
Ryanair is at it again. Travellers have been hit by hundreds of cancellations of flights this summer, ruining 
thousands of holidays. As if the disruption wasn’t bad enough, passengers face a battle for compensation. 
Last year, cancellations were due to an issue over pilot rostering. This year, cabin crew and pilots are striking. 
By August 10 it was estimated that tens of thousands of Ryanair passengers had been caught in the chaos. While 
some people may sympathise with the strikers, most travellers won’t care why their flights were cancelled: their 
priority will be to save their trip and get redress. 
Ryanair, though, maintains that it will not pay the compensation due under EU rules. “As these flight cancellations 
were caused by extraordinary circumstances, no compensation is due,” the airline said. 
It claims that under EU legislation, “no compensation is payable when the union is acting unreasonably and beyond 
the airline’s control. If this was within our control, there would be no cancellations”. 
Considering the problems, customers may vow to avoid Ryanair . . . but it is Europe’s biggest carrier and people 
like the low fares. It’s not rocket science, Ryanair: increase prices slightly, pay staff better and, hey presto, 
customers get a more reliable service.
Amid last year’s cancellations, Ryanair also said it would not pay EU compensation. The UK Civil Aviation Authority 
expedited  enforcement action for “persistently misleading passengers with inaccurate information regarding their 
rights” and the airline caved in.
Got the Ryanair blues? This is how to claim compensation
I asked the CAA if it planned to do anything similar this time but it declined to say. It did say, however, that court 
rulings on compensation applied even though the latest strike was not by Ryanair’s UK employees. 
“When a flight cancellation is caused by strike action by the airline’s employees, the airline is required to pay 
compensation to passengers in respect of the cancellation of the flight, if it has not warned passengers of the 
cancellation at least two weeks prior to the scheduled time of departure,” it said in a statement.
It added: “Passengers must submit their claim to the airline. If they are not satisfied with the response, they can 
seek redress via the approved alternative dispute resolution service.”
For the avoidance of doubt, here are  your rights:
• Passengers can get up to €600 compensation if a flight is delayed, cancelled or you are denied boarding. In most 
cases, the amount will be €250 per passenger. 
• Compensation for delays is only due on flights in the EU or when using an EU airline arriving three hours or more 
late. The amount depends on the length of delay, the notice you were given and flight distance. 
• If you accept a full refund and don’t travel, you are not entitled to EU compensation. 
• If a flight is cancelled, the airline must offer an alternative flight or full refund. 
• If a delay lasts two hours or more, the airline must look after you by providing food and drinks and access to a 
phone and email.
• If you are delayed overnight, it must give you accommodation and travel to/from the hotel. 
• If your flight is delayed by more than five hours and you no longer want to travel, the airline must give a full refund.
If you are reading this thinking “I had no idea I was entitled to that”, don’t despair, you have six years to bring a 
claim. There’s a lot more detail on the  Complaining Cow website. 
Should an airline refuse a payout, passengers can take their claim to an alternative dispute resolution scheme. The 
main two are CEDR and Aviation ADR (Ryanair is a member of the latter) and airlines are bound by their decisions. 
Aviation ADR has  come under fire from Which? for poor performance. With that in mind, Ryanair passengers may 
wish to go straight to seeking legal redress — but both dispute resolution and legal action can be avoided with a 
strong complaint to the airline in question. 
To increase your chances of an award, I suggest:
1) Write to the airline’s chief executive. Find their details on  www.CEOemail.com. Your email should reach an 
executive team and not elicit a fob-off from customer services.
2) State that the CAA has made it clear that airline strikes are covered by EU rule 261/2004.
3) Quote  Helga Krüsemann and Others v TUIfly, in which a judge said strikes by employees are not 
“extraordinary”. 
4) If your delay affected a connecting flight, quote  Claudia Wegener v Royal Air Maroc. The European Court of 
Justice ruled that airlines must compensate passengers who miss a connecting flight and arrive more than three 
hours late at a non-EU destination. 
5) Be clear and concise. Provide your name, address, flight number, date and time, and booking reference. Send 
copies of receipts.
6) Remember that every passenger can claim.
Got the Ryanair blues? This is how to claim compensation
For some airlines it may be better to threaten legal action. For Ryanair, use the  Irish small claims court online. For 
UK airlines, use             Money Claim Online. Take screen shots from the process to show you mean business. 
Remember, by using the procedure above you avoid third party complaints companies — and keep all of any 
compensation.
Helen Dewdney is a consumer campaigner behind the  Complaining Cow website, and the author of ‘How to 
Complain: The essential consumer guide to getting refunds, redress and results’. Twitter:             
@ComplainingCow
Load-Date: March 21, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair pilots’ strike cancels 400 flights at height of holidays
Ryanair pilots’ strike cancels 400 flights at height of holidays
 
FT.com
August 10, 2018 Friday 10:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 448 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
 Ryanair experienced its worst day of strikes on Friday as industrial action across five countries forced it to cancel 
400 flights, or 15 per cent of its daily total, at the height of the summer holiday season.
Pilots’ unions in Ireland, Germany, Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands staged strikes in protest at what they said 
was Ryanair’s refusal to improve their terms and conditions and to employ them under local, rather than Irish, 
contracts.
The airline apologised on Twitter for what it called “the regrettable and unjustified strike action”, but people who said 
their flights had been cancelled criticised a lack of support and response from the company.
Forsa, which represents Ryanair’s Ireland-based pilots, said Ryanair’s pugnacious style and “lack of experience” in 
industrial relations had led to its members’ fifth one-day strike. The airline has now proposed a third-party 
moderator for its negotiations with Forsa.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair chief executive, warned its Irish pilots and cabin crew before earlier industrial action that if 
they went on strike again, the airline would move 20 per cent of its Dublin-based fleet to Poland. In late July, 
Ryanair announced it would do this, putting more than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew at risk of redundancy.
Ryanair on Thursday took the Dutch union that represents 50 of its pilots to court to prevent it striking over the 
summer. The Association of Dutch Pilots said it was surprised by the move because it had not announced a strike 
date. In response, it decided to strike on Friday and won the case.
Ryanair pilots’ strike cancels 400 flights at height of holidays
The problem for Ryanair is that its unions across Europe are synchronising their efforts. Forsa said: “Company 
management has previously attempted to paint its Irish pilots as outliers, saying that it was doing deals and 
conducting successful negotiations elsewhere in Europe.”
Joost van Doesburg, of the Association of Dutch Pilots, previously told the Financial Times that continent-wide 
action would send a more powerful message. “We believe strikes in Europe can give [Ryanair] a wake-up call that 
they are not on the right track with what they’re doing now,” he said.
The company’s shares were down 3.8 per cent to €12.97 in mid-afternoon trading.
Analysts are sceptical that Ryanair will be able to beat the unions, leading to a higher-cost business model. Andrew 
Lobbenberg of HSBC wrote in a note that the “new-found confidence of unions”, a 2017 EU employment-law 
judgment and the global pilot shortage would empower workers.
All of this will diminish Ryanair’s market-leading low-cost model, Mr Lobbenberg said. “We expect the future 
Ryanair in equilibrium to end up looking very similar to a well-run easyJet,” he added.
Load-Date: August 13, 2018
End of Document
Aviation industry urged to attract more female pilots
Aviation industry urged to attract more female pilots
 
FT.com
August 7, 2018 Tuesday 3:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 360 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
The male-dominated aviation industry must attract more women into the workforce to avoid the “impending crisis” of 
not having enough pilots, a senior executive has said.
Angela Gittens, director-general of the Airports Council International, said that if demand for flights continues to 
grow rapidly, men alone cannot provide sufficient pilots. 
According to the International Society of Women Airline Pilots, only 6.7 per cent of pilots are female.
“The fact is that if you ignore half of the world’s population, we’ll never get there,” said Ms Gittens.
Aerospace manufacturer Airbus has projected that the industry will need 530,000 new pilots in the next 20 years, as 
well as 550,000 new technicians.
Ms Gittens was speaking ahead of the first Global Aviation Gender Summit, opening in Cape Town, South Africa, 
on Wednesday.
She said: “Aviation in general has a difficult enough time luring the best and brightest over to our industry . . . It’s 
not a track that girls and young women are particularly aware of. We need to reverse that.” 
Ms Gittens said improving the gender balance in the industry was also a question of fairness.
Aviation industry urged to attract more female pilots
Airlines are already facing pilot shortages: a rostering problem with insufficient staff last year forced Ryanair to 
cancel thousands of flights.
In June, Akbar Al Baker, chief executive of Qatar Airways, caused a stir when he said that a woman could not do 
his job. He quickly apologised. When he made the comment, he had just been appointed chairman of the 
International Air Transport Association’s board of governors, which has only two women among its 30 members.
Fang Liu, the first female secretary-general of the International Civil Aviation Organization, which organised the 
conference, said the industry was looking to other sectors for ideas.
The aviation industry has a serious gender pay gap, with its highest earners — pilots — mostly men and its lowest 
earners — cabin crew — often women. Ryanair’s most recently reported median hourly pay rate for women is 72 
per cent lower than for men, easyJet’s is 46 per cent lower and British Airways’ is 10 per cent lower.
The median pay gap across the whole of the UK is 9.7 per cent.
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines
 
FT.com
August 4, 2018 Saturday 12:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 795 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Until last August, Vienna airport had not been used to attention. But then the airport’s second-largest customer 
collapsed — and now it has become a battleground for Europe’s low-cost carriers.
It is the demise of the Air Berlin Group, under €2bn of losses, that has been largely responsible for the airport’s 
new-found popularity as a clutch of carriers attempt to fill the void left by its collapse.
Since last summer, Hungary’s Wizz Air and Level, IAG’s low-cost long-haul airline, have launched out of Vienna, 
while Lufthansa Group’s Eurowings and IAG’s Vueling have increased their flights from the Austrian capital.
After a tortuous process, Ryanair took over Niki, which was part of the Air Berlin Group based in Vienna. Lufthansa 
then swallowed up the rest of Air Berlin.
With easyJet establishing its European operations in Vienna in the wake of the Brexit vote, all of Europe’s major 
low-cost airlines are now operating out of Austria.
But it is not just the fall of Air Berlin that has prompted the rush to Vienna. A new incentive from the airport for low-
cost carriers, an appealing regulatory environment and Vienna’s booming tourist industry have added to its appeal.
David O’Brien, chief commercial officer of Ryanair, said the airport was “finally incentivising the basing of aircraft 
there”, although it remains to a certain degree a high-cost capital-city airport dominated by the Lufthansa Group and 
particularly its Austrian Airlines subsidiary.
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines
József Váradi, chief executive of Wizz Air, added that the airport’s management is now “far more commercial”, and 
thus willing to attract airlines, than earlier incarnations that relied on the Lufthansa Group, which carried 56 per cent 
of Vienna’s passengers before the collapse of Air Berlin.
Julian Jäger, the airport’s joint chief executive, thinks it is the airport’s volume incentive that has impressed the likes 
of Mr O’Brien and Mr Váradi.
This was introduced in January with the specific intention of attracting low-cost carriers: airlines that base at least 
three aircraft at Vienna and grow to more than 750,000 departing passengers a year receive a rebate of €540 per 
hundred people, with more favourable tiers of refunds as passenger numbers climb.
Mr Jäger said the arrival of the low-cost carriers would lead to a 5 per cent growth in flights this year and 6 per cent 
in passenger numbers to 25.9m.
Given that the number of flights to and from the airport had been gently dipping since 2010, this is an important 
change in direction.
The booming tourist industry is another big plus for the airport. Tourism in Vienna grew 4.4 per cent to 15.5m 
overnight stays in 2017, according to the government.
Vienna also has geographic charms for airlines, according to Mr Jäger, who pointed out that its catchment area 
contains parts of Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and that it acts as a bridge between the continent’s 
east and west.
However, it was the void left by Air Berlin that has been most significant, paving the way first for the Lufthansa 
Group to step up its operations and then for Wizz Air to establish a base in Vienna. Wizz Air plans to move three 
aircraft to the airport this year, accounting for 69 weekly flights.
Last month, Level announced it would start flying from Vienna. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which also 
owns British Airways, said its four aircraft there would grow to 30.
Ryanair’s involvement came through the complex and eventful purchase of Niki, now known as Laudamotion. This 
followed last month’s decision from the European Commission, allowing the airline to raise its share of Laudamotion 
from 25 per cent to 75 per cent, securing its ownership and position at Vienna airport.
IAG, which had also been a bidder for Niki, said that despite not winning, it had been “overwhelmed by the support 
from the local market”, persuading the group to introduce Level there.
However, Vienna has had its problems and controversies.
Its rejected application for a third runway, later overturned by a higher court, remains contentious, in the eyes of 
some.
Mr O’Brien, for example, is not convinced the third runway is anything more than “an unnecessary expense”, given 
that London Gatwick only has one runway and handled 21m more passengers than Vienna.
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, also raised the difficulties in making profits at the airport. “We have no doubt 
that all these carriers will make significant losses in Vienna,” he said in a recent note.
But if it is tough for airlines, competition will bring benefits for passengers with lower fares.
A spokesperson for the Lufthansa Group summed up Vienna’s paradoxical attraction. “It’s good for the consumer 
and it’s a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market, or will be a very difficult market.”
Load-Date: August 5, 2018
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines
End of Document
Ryanair faces fresh pilot strikes around Europe
Ryanair faces fresh pilot strikes around Europe
 
FT.com
August 3, 2018 Friday 12:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 568 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair’s summer of strikes has worsened as pilots in Sweden, Belgium and the Netherlands voted for industrial 
action.
They have joined the pilots’ union in Ireland, which has had four days of strikes and another planned for August 10, 
and Germany, which has not yet announced the date of its strike.
Cabin crew unions in Spain, Portugal and Belgium went on strike for two days at the end of July.
Joost van Doesburg, of the Association of Dutch Pilots (VNV), which represents 50 Ryanair pilots, said continent-
wide action would send a more powerful message. “We believe strikes in Europe can give [Ryanair] a wake-up call 
that they are not on the right track with what they’re doing now,” he said. “They should start to focus on what are the 
needs and wishes of their own employees. They’re not interested in this part.”
Unlike in some countries, where unions have to give a week’s notice of action, the Dutch union only has to give 12 
hours, meaning it will be harder for Ryanair to make alternative arrangements for passengers. The union, which is 
still talking to Ryanair about a collective labour agreement, said it would give a date if talks broke down.
The VNV, in common with other pilots’ unions, wants employment under national, not Irish, law; sick pay; and 
changes to self-employed contractors’ terms.
Ryanair faces fresh pilot strikes around Europe
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, warned its Irish pilots and cabin crew that if they went on strike again, 
the airline would move 20 per cent of its Dublin-based fleet to Poland. Last week Ryanair announced it would do 
this, putting more than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew at risk of redundancy.
However, the low-cost airline on Friday agreed to use a third-party moderator in its discussions with its Irish pilots, 
which the union called “an unexpected and positive development”.
The Irish union’s next strike is set for August 10, when the Belgian Cockpit Association has urged its members to 
join in a sympathy strike. There are 180 Ryanair pilots in Belgium, according to estimates from Bernstein.
Also striking on August 10 will be members of the Swedish Pilots’ Association (SPF); Sweden has just under 50  
Ryanair pilots.
Martin Lindgren, chairman of the SPF, said: “We have not seen any tendency for Ryanair to let their pilots be 
represented by unions anywhere in Europe. All Ryanair proposals that came to SPF have meant restrictions on the 
right to organise ourselves and to be represented by a union, something that is totally unacceptable for a union.”
Ryanair said: “We have written to each of these pilot unions today and invited them to meet us in the coming days 
to make further progress in concluding union recognition and collective labour agreements in each of these 
markets.”
The airline added that it had asked for seven days’ notice to “notify our customers of cancelled flights in advance 
and offer them alternative flights or refunds”.
The airline announced in December that it would start to recognise unions after an autumn rostering crisis, caused 
by a shortage of pilots, forced the airline to cancel thousands of flights.
Given the tight labour market, Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, said: “I don’t think the balance of power has 
materially shifted between pilots and airlines since then.”
Philip von Schöppenthau, secretary-general of the European Cockpit Association, which has 38,000 members, 
called Ryanair’s behaviour “a sad episode of human resources hara-kiri”.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Airline tickets: up, up and away
Airline tickets: up, up and away
 
FT.com
August 3, 2018 Friday 4:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 280 words
Body
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines, but it is Europe where they are flying spectacularly high. Since deregulation 
in 1992 prices have tumbled, as passengers starting their summer holidays this weekend will appreciate. The 
cheapest ticket from Milan to Paris would have cost 16 times more in real terms 25 years ago.
Tough competition in Europe — along with higher regulatory costs — makes it harder to make money. Airline profits 
average $7.58 per passenger, less than half the US average. The market is fragmented, with more than 200 airlines 
flying. That is more than twice as many as in the US, where foreigners cannot operate domestic flights. 
The economics of the US industry were transformed by mergers. The top six airlines in the US now have 90 per 
cent of the market. Might the European industry, where the top six carriers have just 43 per cent of the market, 
follow a similar path? As weak airlines get clobbered by higher fuel costs, takeovers are likely. In May Ryanair boss 
Michael O’Leary said consolidation would make Europe look more like the US, with four or five very large airlines. 
British Airways-owner IAG has been pursuing budget airline Norwegian Air Shuttle, although on Friday it stressed 
that talks had gone nowhere. 
Consolidation is a long-term threat to cheap European fares. Shorter-term, higher-fuel prices will push up prices. 
Much also rests on airlines’ willingness to curb capacity growth. That is expanding at nearly 6 per cent but it is set to 
slow this winter. Enjoy cheap journeys while they last. 
Lex recommends the FT’s Due Diligence newsletter, a curated briefing on the world of mergers and acquisitions. 
Sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Airline tickets: up, up and away
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
French air traffic strikes take toll on IAG profits
French air traffic strikes take toll on IAG profits
 
FT.com
August 3, 2018 Friday 6:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 257 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Airline group IAG has reported strong pre-tax profit growth in its first-half results, up almost a quarter to €1bn.
However, the owner of British Airways, Iberia and Aer Lingus missed analysts’ consensus for its second-quarter 
operating profit before exceptional items, coming in at €835m, up 5.7 per cent on last year. Consensus was €848m.
Chief executive Willie Walsh blamed strikes for disrupting flights and dragging down profit: “Unfortunately, French 
air traffic control strikes continued to challenge our airlines’ operations, causing disruption to our customers. Vueling 
was particularly affected and incurred an additional €20m of disruption costs in the quarter.”
IAG has filed a legal complaint to the European Commission, alongside rivals easyJet and Ryanair, saying the 
strikes breach the EU’s fundamental freedom of movement.
Total revenue was up 3.1 per cent to €11.2bn and basic earnings per share up more than 140 per cent to €0.68.
The group was cagey about the full-year outlook: “At current fuel prices and exchange rates, IAG still expects its 
operating profit for 2018 to show an increase year-on-year. Both passenger unit revenue and non-fuel unit costs are 
expected to improve at constant currency.”
Revenue per available seat kilometre (ASK), a standard unit of comparison in aviation, fell 1.3 per cent in the first 
half while cost per ASK also fell, by 3.1 per cent. The fall would have been greater but for increased fuel costs (up 
3.8 per cent). The figures were slightly worse for the second quarter, when fuel was higher.
French air traffic strikes take toll on IAG profits
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
IAG to offload Norwegian Air stake after bids fail
IAG to offload Norwegian Air stake after bids fail
 
FT.com
August 3, 2018 Friday 4:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 444 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Willie Walsh, chief executive of the IAG airline group, has said it is looking to sell its shares in low-cost carrier 
Norwegian Air after failing to negotiate a takeover.
IAG, which owns British Airways, bought 4.6 per cent of Norwegian this year as a prelude to discussing a takeover, 
but had two proposals rebuffed.
Mr Walsh said: “We’re not going to keep the shares, we’re not an investor. We bought that small stake to initiate a 
conversation and if that conversation is not going anywhere, as it’s not, we’re not going to hold on to those shares.”
 IAG would stand to make £12m on its 1.795m shares if it acquired them at the start of April at NKr168, soon before 
it announced its intention, and sold them at Friday’s price of NKr233.6. The shares were worth £39m on Friday.
Norwegian has said it has received several expressions of interest from “serious players” including rival airlines 
such as Lufthansa Group. “We are happy to have IAG as an investor. Needless to say, they are not the only 
interested party that has approached us,” said Bjorn Kjos, the carrier’s colourful chief executive.
Norwegian said it was not perturbed by the news or any effect it might have on a takeover offer. “We’ve never been 
working towards acquisition, we’re working towards being an independent, profitable company, and that hasn’t 
changed.”
Mr Walsh’s announcement came as IAG reported strong pre-tax profit growth in its first-half results, up almost a 
quarter to €1bn.
IAG to offload Norwegian Air stake after bids fail
However, IAG, which also owns Iberia and Aer Lingus, missed analysts’ consensus for its second-quarter operating 
profit before exceptional items, coming in at €835m, up 5.7 per cent on last year. Consensus was €848m.
Mr Walsh blamed strikes for disrupting flights and dragging down profit: “Unfortunately, French air traffic control 
strikes continued to challenge our airlines’ operations, causing disruption to our customers. Vueling was particularly 
affected and incurred an additional €20m of disruption costs in the quarter.” He said disruption had cost the whole 
group €30m.
IAG has filed a legal complaint to the European Commission, alongside rivals easyJet and Ryanair, saying the 
strikes breach the EU’s fundamental freedom of movement.
Total revenue for the first half was up 3.1 per cent to €11.2bn and basic earnings per share up more than 140 per 
cent to €0.68.
Revenue per available seat kilometre (ASK), a standard unit of comparison in aviation, fell 1.3 per cent in the first 
half while cost per ASK also fell, by 3.1 per cent. The fall would have been greater but for increased fuel costs, 
which were up 3.8 per cent. The figures were slightly worse for the second quarter, when fuel was higher.
Load-Date: August 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ’s German pilots vote for industrial action
Ryanair’s German pilots vote for industrial action
 
FT.com
July 30, 2018 Monday 3:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 439 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair’s German pilots have voted for industrial action, joining several of the airline’s other unions across Europe, 
as a summer of strikes looks set to spread.
The pilots, 96 per cent of whom voted for industrial action in support of their preferred labour contracts, have given 
the airline until August 6 to submit “a workable proposal” before announcing a date for action.
Ingolf Schumacher, chairman of industrial relations at Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), the union, said: “Since the start of 
our negotiations in January, Ryanair has been playing for time and even if Ryanair is not taking this ballot seriously, 
industrial action like in other European countries seems unavoidable in Germany as well.”
Ryanair has 10 bases and 328 pilots in Germany, representing 7.6 per cent of the airline’s workforce, according to 
figures from analysts at Bernstein. Bernstein estimates that more than half belong to VC. The German pilots also 
went on strike in December 2017.
The airline said: “We have written to the VC today and invited them to another meeting next week. We hope we can 
make further progress in concluding a collective labour agreement with our pilots in Germany.”
Ryanair has been plagued by strikes this summer, both from its own employees and air traffic control staff across 
Europe.
Ryanair ’s German pilots vote for industrial action
Its Irish pilots’ union staged three days of strikes in July and, after chief executive Michael O’Leary threatened to 
make some staff redundant, announced another for this Friday. Cabin crew in Spain, Portugal and Belgium staged 
a two-day strike last week. All have been arguing for improved pay and conditions.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of a 
rostering failure that led to a shortage of air crew. Staff were emboldened to push for better terms following the 
crisis.
French air traffic controllers have been staging strikes for months, which Mr O’Leary has criticised, calling the 
disruptions “unacceptable”. 
He has said: “Europe’s ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled 
and delayed daily either because of ATC strikes or because Europe’s ATC don’t have enough staff.”
Ryanair has filed a legal complaint with the European Commission claiming that the ATC strikes are breaching EU 
citizens’ fundamental freedom of movement.
The ATC shortages and strikes have hit Ryanair’s profits: in its first-quarter results last week pre-tax profit fell 22 
per cent after the airline had to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 450,000 passengers, and pay out 40 per 
cent more in compensation than the same quarter last year.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Airline revenues from theatre and car hire lift off
Airline revenues from theatre and car hire lift off
 
FT.com
July 28, 2018 Saturday 3:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 968 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Selling theatre tickets for musicals Les Miserables and Wicked is not normally associated with low-cost airlines 
such as Ryanair. 
But as the oil price has risen and fares stay competitive, these so-called ancillary revenues are becoming essential 
to the airline business model.
“2018 may well be a defining moment in aviation as airlines begin to report more revenue from their retailing than 
the cost of the initial air ticket,” said John Grant, partner at consultancy Midas Aviation.
Ancillary revenues have soared in the decade to 2017. The top 10 global airlines, ranked by total ancillary revenue, 
increased them from $2.1bn to $29.7bn in the 10 years to 2017, according to IdeaWorksCompany (IWC) and 
CarTrawler. 
United Airlines led with $5.8bn, three-fifths of which came from what IWC calls “à la carte” sources, such as 
charges for extra bags, and travel retail commissions. The rest was frequent flyer programmes.
Mr Grant cited ultra-low-cost carriers such as the US’s Spirit Airlines, where ticket revenue for 2017 was $328m and 
non-ticket revenue was $329m, as an example where this trend towards emphasis on ancillary revenues is 
accelerating.
As part of its effort to increase ancillary revenue, Abu Dhabi-based airline Etihad has announced “a dynamic live 
auction” where passengers can bid to upgrade their cabin class. 
Airline revenues from theatre and car hire lift off
At Ryanair, chief executive Michael O’Leary has long talked about turning his low-cost airline into “the Amazon of 
travel”. 
Last week Ryanair was one of several low-cost carriers that trumpeted growth in ancillary revenues in their results, 
with its own ancillaries up by a quarter.
Ancillaries made up €2bn, or 28 per cent, of Ryanair’s total revenue in 2017-18, and Mr O’Leary wants them to 
grow to 30 per cent. They will also go some way to offsetting losses from recent strikes.
Earlier this year Ryanair’s chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said: “I’d describe Ryanair as a travel retailer with a 
low-cost airline at its centre. When it comes to digital, you have to think like a retailer.”
In the airline’s vision of travel as retail, a customer has a hierarchy of needs, starting with a flight, moving through 
car hire, booking a hotel room and buying tickets for activities such as tour guides. 
The final level is one day providing the customer with the opportunity to use the airline’s one-stop shop to purchase 
(for example) clothes at Asos, food at Tesco and even sun cream from Nivea.
In essence, Mr Jacobs said, it was about “using data to cross- and up-sell the products you already have to the 
customers you already have”.
To grow their online retailing businesses, airlines have looked to companies such as CarTrawler, which works with 
more than 100 airlines, including Norwegian, Emirates and Vueling (part of IAG), to offer a ready-made 
marketplace. This puts insurers, car hire groups and other retailers in one place.
Whereas initially airlines signed exclusive contracts with groups such as car-hire companies, “the overall return to 
the airline is bigger” if it has more competition among suppliers, said Bobby Healy, CarTrawler’s chief technology 
officer.
He said Ryanair, one of its customers, had experienced 15-30 per cent growth in sales by moving to a marketplace 
model.
While CarTrawler offers the ready-made market, other companies such as Datalex provide the technology to enable 
airlines’ websites to connect customers and retailers.
Ornagh Hoban, Datalex’s chief marketing officer, said any company with an Amazonian ambition needs to ask: 
“How do I provide products and services with exceptional precision in a fast-moving digital marketplace?” They 
must become, like Amazon, seamless platforms between consumers and producers.
Not everyone is as ambitious as Ryanair, but they recognise the importance of ancillary services. 
In easyJet’s third-quarter trading statement earlier in July, it reported ancillary revenue of £328m, up 21 per cent on 
the previous year and more than a fifth of total revenue. Ancillary options include choosing allocated seating and 
adding bags.
To drive this even higher, easyJet has said it will step up its hotel booking business and chief executive Johan 
Lundgren announced a new boss for easyJet Holidays. The airline has said: “Currently only 500,000 passengers 
book a hotel with us out of an addressable market of 20m.”
Eurowings, part of the Lufthansa Group, is another low-cost airline that is focusing on its ancillary operations, 
launching Eurowings Digital by the end of 2018 “to bundle all the airline’s customer-relevant digital activities under 
one roof”, the company said.
Its website will offer hotel bookings and car hire but also event tickets and recommendations for restaurants and 
bars at a passenger’s destination. Eurowings cited Amazon’s one-click payment system as a model.
Airline revenues from theatre and car hire lift off
Airports will be watching this warily as airlines look to grab a slice of their market. The airport retail market is 
estimated at $50bn, according to the Centre for Aviation, a business intelligence company.
However, despite Ryanair’s ever-confident trumpeting, there is clearly significant work to be done.
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said this evolution was “a slow-burn thing” and that low-cost carriers “require a 
change in customer perception or a ‘leap of faith’ that some of these higher-value services are what they say on the 
packet, rather than akin to the ‘basic’ service that they receive from the standard ticket”.
Midas Aviation’s Mr Grant warned that a one-stop-shop may only be simple for airlines rather than the passenger: 
“The apparent simplicity and transparency that airlines claim they are creating may actually be a lot more complex 
for the traveller in time.”
If people only want an airline ticket, a bombardment of commercial offerings — no matter how elegant the interface 
— may backfire on the airline.
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
Week in Review, July 28
Week in Review, July 28
 
FT.com
July 27, 2018 Friday 8:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1359 words
Body
A round up of some of the week’s most significant corporate events and news stories.
Amazon’s quarterly profits reach a record $2.5bn
It took Amazon 20 years as a public company to reach $1bn in quarterly profit. It took six months to double that, 
writes Shannon Bond in New York.
On Thursday, the Seattle company reported a record $2.5bn in second-quarter net income, up from $197m a year 
ago. 
Earnings of $5.07 a share blew past Wall Street’s estimate of $2.51. Its top line fell short, however: 39 per cent 
sales growth to $52.9bn undershot analysts’ consensus estimate by $500m.
Amazon was famously unprofitable for years as it ploughed fast-growing revenue into investments from 
warehouses to electronic devices to servers for its network of data centres. 
That turned it into the dominant force in online shopping — capturing one in every two dollars spent on ecommerce 
in the US — and cloud computing, where its customers include Netflix, Ryanair and the CIA.
This time, the picture flipped for investors accustomed to meagre margins and outsized sales growth. 
Amazon’s second-quarter operating margin of 5.6 per cent eclipsed analysts’ forecasts of 3.2 per cent and was the 
highest in more than a decade.
Week in Review, July 28
Shareholders cheered the news. After sending the stock down 3 per cent as part of Thursday’s Facebook-fuelled 
tech pullback, investors reversed those losses in after-hours trading.
Amazon expects a similar pattern for the third quarter. It forecast operating income between $1.4bn and $2.4bn on 
net sales of $54bn to $57.5bn, compared with Wall Street’s estimate of $1.3bn and $58bn, respectively.
The company credited its strengthening profitability to its diversification into high-margin businesses, as well as 
efficiencies from recent investments and a more restrained rate of hiring and capital expenditures this year.
The cloud division, Amazon Web Services, has been a particular boon. Its fat operating margin — 27 per cent in the 
quarter — has provided a welcome cushion to the low-margin retail business that still makes up most of Amazon’s 
revenue. 
US tension with China kills Qualcomm’s NXP bid
Growing political strife between the US and China has now scuppered two of the tech industry’s biggest-ever deals, 
with Qualcomm forced this week to walk away from its planned $44bn buyout of NXP, writes Tim Bradshaw in Los 
Angeles. 
Almost two years after the two chipmakers’ tie-up was announced, Chinese antitrust authorities failed to deliver the 
approvals before the deal’s deadline expired on Wednesday night. 
Steve Mollenkopf, Qualcomm chief executive, blamed the “current geopolitical environment” for delaying Beijing’s 
sign-off, even though eight other regulators around the world approved the deal. 
Chinese officials have publicly denied that escalating tensions over trade with the US affected the decision. 
However, people briefed on Qualcomm’s negotiations said that Beijing had retaliated for US President Donald 
Trump’s abrupt turnround on tariffs, embarrassing Chinese vice-premier Liu He after a recent stateside visit. 
Qualcomm’s defeat comes months after it was saved by Mr Trump from a hostile takeover bid by rival Broadcom. 
The White House blocked Broadcom’s $142bn offer, fearing the deal could allow China to overtake the US in the 
race to develop 5G wireless technology. 
The moves are expected to dampen cross-border tie-ups, especially in the rapidly consolidating semiconductor 
industry. 
Rick Clemmer, NXP chief executive, told the Financial Times that the Dutch chipmaker’s management team was 
left “fatigued and tired” by the prolonged regulatory scrutiny. 
UBS beats expectations but warns on trade war impact
UBS this week reported a stronger than expected 12 per cent rise in pre-tax profits in the second quarter, lifted by 
its investment bank, writes Ralph Atkins in Zurich. 
But the Swiss bank’s core wealth management op­erations experienced net money outflows, and it war­ned global 
trade and geopolitical tensions were eroding investor confidence.
For the second consecutive quarter, investment bank operations outshone the Swiss lender’s wealth management 
arm, despite the investment bank’s supposed subsidiary status.
Overall, pre-tax profits reached SFr1.68bn ($1.68bn) in the three months to June, up from SFr1.5bn the same 
period a year ago. At the inv­estment bank, reported pre-tax profits of SFr569m were up on SFr451m a year earlier. 
The global wealth management unit, however, only narrowly beat analysts’ ex­pectations, with reported pre-tax 
profits of SFr1.04bn, up from SFr879m. The second quarter saw net new money outflows of SFr1.2bn. 
Week in Review, July 28
While global economic growth would support financial markets, UBS said geopolitical tensions and rising 
protectionism had “damped investor confidence and remain a threat”.
But analysts were cheered by UBS managers’ confidence of reaching targets, including for new net money inflows, 
as well as hints by chief Sergio Ermotti about further share buybacks. 
Separately, Deutsche Bank detailed its second quarter performance, after pre-releasing better than expected 
numbers a week earlier showing it had delivered half of its full-year job cuts target. 
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit
Ryanair’s week started badly, with a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in its first quarter. And it got worse, writes Josh 
Spero in London.
Announcing the results, chief executive Michael O’Leary blamed strikes by his staff and Europe’s air traffic 
controllers for the drop, and warned of cuts to the airline’s winter schedule if strikes continued.
Ryanair’s Irish pilots went on strike on Wednesday and cabin crews in Spain, Portugal and Belgium on Thursday 
and Friday. 
Ryanair said there was “very minimal disruption”. 
The employees were striking over pay and conditions, and wanted contracts governed by local, not Irish, law.
The airline, also on Wednesday, followed through on its warning about winter cuts as it announced it intended to 
move six of its 30 aircraft from Ireland to Poland, potentially making redundant or reassigning more than 100 
Dublin-based pilots and 200 cabin crew.
The pilots’ union reacted by scheduling another strike.
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said: “Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very 
risky strategy, and will likely lead to greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing 
a union’s bargaining power.”
Ryanair — with Wizz Air, easyJet and IAG, the BA owner — filed a complaint with the European Commission, 
saying France’s failure to stop air traffic controller strikes was a breach of freedom of movement. 
Ryanair alone had to cancel 2,500 flights in the first quarter.
GSK injects $300m into California gene test group
GSK is falling into the scientific embrace of Silicon Valley, writes Clive Cookson in London.
Alongside Wednesday’s second-quarter results, which ran well ahead of market expectations, the UK pharma 
group announced a $300m investment and four-year drug discovery collaboration with 23andMe, the California 
gene testing group.
The 23andMe deal follows GSK’s recruitment of Hal Barron as chief scientist. He is based in San Francisco, where 
he has worked for almost 30 years, establishing himself as a leader in biotech research with Genentech and then 
Calico, one of the Alphabet stable of start-ups that focuses on life-extending medicine.
23and Me will provide GSK with a database of more than 4m people who have agreed that their genetic analysis 
can be used for research after “de-identification” to protect privacy. 
Links between their genes and disease will help discover new drugs, and 23andMe customers are a potential 
source of clinical trial participants. 
Week in Review, July 28
GSK mentioned a gene called LRRK2, implicated in Parkinson’s disease, on which its scientists will work with 
23andMe. 
Although 23andMe has made peace with regulators after a run-in with the US Food and Drug Administration over 
its marketing, there is still scope for controversy. 
For example, there have been claims that people who have paid for DNA tests should receive some money back if 
the pharmaceutical industry develops blockbuster drugs on the basis of their data.
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
Amazon : Who wants to be a trillionaire?
Amazon: Who wants to be a trillionaire?
 
FT.com
July 27, 2018 Friday 4:09 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 328 words
Body
If Donald Trump is going to make Amazon pay more for postage stamps, it at least has the profits to afford it. 
The Seattle company reported its second-quarter results on Thursday. Its soothing message must have helped heal 
tech investors’ whiplash from Facebook’s results a day earlier. The social media group shocked the world with a 
modest view of its future revenue growth and profits. Amazon delivered 39 per cent year-on-year quarterly revenue 
a near four-fold increase of operating income to $3bn in the same period. 
The profit surge does not come from Amazon’s core e-commerce operation. Instead, Amazon Web Services — its 
cloud computing unit — and a small but fast growing digital advertising business were responsible. The incursion 
into Facebook’s core territory, ads, is likely to be lucrative, as the social media group’s wide margins demonstrate. 
AWS rents computing power to other companies such Ryanair, which it just  signed up as a client in the quarter. 
The segment grows revenue faster than the overall company, and boasts an operating profit margin of 27 per cent.
In after-hours trading, Amazon shares jumped 3 per cent, implying a market capitalisation of more than $900bn. 
Apple is ahead in the race towards the $1tn crown at $954bn. Facebook may have just dropped out of the contest 
after its rout on Thursday left its market value nearer $500bn. 
Amazon, famously, never delivered much in profits, as it reinvested into its own operations. Its core e-commerce 
business grows more slowly than the new high-margin flyers. It is also far less profitable. The question is what to do 
with the burgeoning returns as they become sustainable — to be fair, free cash flow performance was not quite as 
strong as accounting income.
Amazon : Who wants to be a trillionaire?
Amazon earlier this year acquired PillPack, an online pharmacy start-up that perhaps presages its entry into 
healthcare. The options are limitless — and many are unaffected by the higher shipping expenses that Mr Trump 
demands.
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cuts Dublin fleet 20% after pilot strikes
Ryanair cuts Dublin fleet 20% after pilot strikes
 
FT.com
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 7:58 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 590 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has announced it will cut its Dublin-based fleet by 20 per cent this winter, following through on a threat it 
made to stop its Irish pilots striking. 
More than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew could be affected by the move, the low-cost carrier said on Wednesday.
Ryanair said its board had decided to remove at least six of its 30 aircraft in Dublin, sending them to its Polish 
charter airline, because of “a downturn in forward bookings and air fares in Ireland partly as a result of recent rolling 
strikes by Irish pilots”.
The low-cost carrier said strikes had “disturbed” consumer confidence in its Irish flight schedules. It also cited 
improvements in its Polish business.
Irish pilots staged strikes on July 12, 20 and 24 over pay and conditions.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair’s chief operating officer, said the move would “result in some aircraft reductions and job cuts 
in country markets where business has weakened or forward bookings are being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish 
pilots”.
He added: “Ryanair operates a fleet of over 450 aircraft from 87 bases across Europe. We can only do so if we 
continue to offer low fares and reliable flight services to our customers, and if our reputation for reliability or forward 
bookings is affected, then base and potential job cuts such as these at Dublin are a deeply regretted consequence.”
Ryanair cuts Dublin fleet 20% after pilot strikes
The company will consult on redundancies, which “will be determined by Ryanair’s assessment of flight 
performance, productivity, attendances, and base transfer requests”, but will also offer transfers to Poland.
In response, Forsa, the union representing Ryanair’s Irish pilots, announced a fourth strike for August 3, saying the 
airline’s move had escalated the dispute.
Forsa said Ryanair’s decision was “reckless and unnecessary” and showed management was either unwilling or 
unable to negotiate with unions. 
It added: “It is normal practice for airlines to reduce activity in the winter months. In light of this — and of Ryanair’s 
recent difficulty in recruiting and retaining enough pilots to fulfil its schedules — it remains unclear if today’s 
provocative move heralds a significant change in normal practice.”
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said: “Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very 
risky strategy and will likely lead to greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing 
a union’s bargaining power.” 
He added that unions would now put employment guarantees on their negotiating agenda, on top of pay and 
adopting local labour laws.
Ryanair’s announcement came as cabin crew went on strike in Spain, Portugal and Belgium on Wednesday and 
Thursday. 
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, said: “It would seem plausible that on a day when we’ve got cabin crew 
strikes across Europe, sending out redundancy notices is a tactical move to their staff across the system.”
In Ryanair’s first-quarter results on Monday, Michael O’Leary, chief executive, had warned of cuts to the airline’s 
winter schedule if strikes continued, “which may lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses”.
The airline announced last December it would start to recognise unions after an autumn rostering crisis, caused by 
a shortage of pilots, which forced the airline to cancel thousands of flights. Given the tight labour market, Mr 
Lobbenberg said: “I don’t think the balance of power has materially shifted between pilots and airlines since then.”
Ryanair has so far recognised fewer than 10 unions and negotiated no labour agreements.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Wizz Air blames strikes for profit fall
Wizz Air blames strikes for profit fall
 
FT.com
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 6:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 288 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Low-cost carrier Wizz Air blamed air traffic controller strikes and shortages for a 14 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in 
its first quarter and a cut to its full-year capacity growth target.
Profit fell from €60.5m to €52.1m in the three months to the end of June, the eastern European airline said on 
Wednesday, as total delay and compensation costs trebled to €9.1m.
Chief executive József Váradi said: 
With these disruptions likely to continue into autumn and on the back of a continued rise in fuel prices in the 
first quarter the company took the decision to trim its full-year growth target from 20 per cent to 18 per cent.
A sharp rise in cancellations — from 24 in the first quarter of last year to 145 in the same period this year — 
increased costs and weighted on revenue per available seat kilometre, a commonly used industry metric, which fell 
1.4 per cent. Cost per available seat kilometre grew 2.2 per cent.
Passenger numbers grew 20 per cent to 8.6m and revenue 18 per cent to €553m. But operating expenses 
increased even more, by 23 per cent to €499m, with staff costs up more than a third and fuel costs up by close to 
that amount. Easter also fell outside the quarter, depressing profit.
On Tuesday, Wizz Air joined rivals easyJet, Ryanair and IAG, owner of British Airways, in filing legal complaints 
with the European Commission over the ATC disruption.
Wizz Air blames strikes for profit fall
Mr Váradi said then that the “failure of French air traffic control authorities to ensure a continued and adequate 
service has already caused massive disruption”, adding that addressing the disputes “must be a priority for the 
European authorities to ensure European citizens and businesses are no longer held hostage to national industrial 
relations issues.”
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Wizz Air hit by impact of Europe’s air traffic strikes
Wizz Air hit by impact of Europe’s air traffic strikes
 
FT.com
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 1:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 518 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Wizz Air shares fell 5 per cent in early afternoon trading as the low-cost carrier cut its full-year growth target and 
blamed air traffic controller strikes for a 14 per cent drop in pre-tax profit in its first quarter.
“With these disruptions likely to continue into autumn and on the back of a continued rise in fuel prices in the first 
quarter, the company took the decision to trim its full-year [capacity] growth target from 20 per cent to 18 per cent,” 
said József Váradi, chief executive.
The group kept its full-year profit target unchanged at €310m-€340m.
Earlier this week, Mr Váradi said the “failure of French air traffic control authorities to ensure a continued and 
adequate service has already caused massive disruption”.
Profit fell from €60.5m to €52.1m in the three months to the end of June, the Hungarian airline said on Wednesday, 
as total delay and compensation costs trebled to €9.1m.
Mr Váradi said he expected disruptions to cost €1.5m a month until October, when the winter schedule begins. 
“Hopefully after that we will see some easing because of the seasonality in the industry.”
Shares in the airline fell 5 per cent in early afternoon trading in London to £33.80.
Wizz Air hit by impact of Europe’s air traffic strikes
Barclays said it was not too worried by the results. “In spite of this external disruption risk, we see the  Wizz Air 
management team demonstrating strong financial discipline, with a clear profit and margin focus, by trimming 
capacity growth.” 
The bank gave “a very modest downgrade” to its full-year profit forecast, to €319m.
A sharp rise in cancellations — from 24 in the first quarter of last year to 145 in the same period this year — 
increased costs and weighed on revenue per available seat kilometre, a commonly used industry metric, which fell 
1.4 per cent. Cost per available seat kilometre grew 2.2 per cent, although it fell 1 per cent excluding fuel.
Passenger numbers grew 20 per cent to 8.6m and revenue 18 per cent to €553m. But operating expenses 
increased even more, by 23 per cent to €499m, with staff costs up more than a third and fuel costs up by close to 
that amount.
The results came a day after Wizz Air joined rivals easyJet, Ryanair and IAG, owner of British Airways, in filing legal 
complaints with the European Commission over the disruption. Speaking on Tuesday, Mr Váradi said that 
addressing the disputes “must be a priority for the European authorities to ensure European citizens and 
businesses are no longer held hostage to national industrial relations issues”.
On Wednesday he added that it was “always the airlines that pay the financial burden” of air traffic controller strikes 
through compensation, but he also noted that they affected “hundreds of millions of passengers”.
However, Mr Váradi said Easter falling outside the quarter had depressed profit more than the strikes because 
travel over the holiday period contributed €17m last year.
Ross Harvey, analyst at Davy, said that “changes in [Wizz’s] baggage policy through winter” had brought down 
ancillary revenues, namely sales apart for the ticket price, by 9.3 per cent. In October 2017, the airline removed 
charges for cabin bags.
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair , EasyJet and IAG file complaints to Brussels over strikes
Ryanair, EasyJet and IAG file complaints to Brussels over strikes
 
FT.com
July 24, 2018 Tuesday 9:58 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 324 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Some of Europe’s biggest airlines have filed complaints with the European Commission over air traffic controllers’ 
strikes and shortages, saying they breach “the fundamental principle of free movement within the EU”.
British Airways owner IAG and low-cost carriers, easyJet, Ryanair and Wizz Air have taken co-ordinated action after 
cancelling thousands of flights this year because of the strikes. IAG and Ryanair had announced their intention to 
mount a legal challenge in June.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, called the disruptions “unacceptable” and said: “Europe’s ATC 
providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled and delayed daily either 
because of ATC strikes or because Europe’s ATC don’t have enough staff.”
On Monday, Ryanair’s first-quarter results showed that shortages of and strikes by air traffic controllers had forced 
the airline to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in 
compensation than the same quarter last year. Punctuality was down from 89 per cent to 75 per cent.
According to Eurocontrol, which co-ordinates national air traffic control agencies, ATC strikes had delayed more 
than 16,000 flights by June this year, hitting more than 2m passengers.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said: 
The right to strike needs to be balanced against freedom of movement. It’s not only customers flying in and out 
of France who are affected during French ATC strikes. Passengers on routes that overfly France, especially 
Ryanair , EasyJet and IAG file complaints to Brussels over strikes
the large airspace that covers Marseille and the Mediterranean, are also subject to delays and massive 
disruptions.
IAG’s low-cost airline Vueling, based in Spain, is particularly affected by French strikes.
The complaints base their case on a 1997 ruling by the European Court of Justice that French farmers had 
prevented Spanish farmers exporting their goods into the EU; the ECJ ruled in Spain’s favour.
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Four airlines complain to Brussels over strikes
Four airlines complain to Brussels over strikes
 
FT.com
July 24, 2018 Tuesday 5:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 628 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Four of Europe’s biggest airlines have filed complaints with the European Commission over air traffic controllers’ 
strikes and shortages, saying they breach “the fundamental principle of free movement within the EU”.
British Airways owner IAG and low-cost carriers easyJet, Ryanair and Wizz Air have taken co-ordinated action after 
cancelling thousands of flights this year because of the strikes. IAG and Ryanair had announced their intention in 
June.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, called the disruptions “unacceptable” and said: “Europe’s ATC 
providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled and delayed daily either 
because of ATC strikes or because Europe’s ATC don’t have enough staff.”
Ryanair’s first-quarter results on Monday showed that shortages of and strikes by air traffic controllers had forced 
the airline to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in 
compensation than the same quarter last year.
According to Eurocontrol, which co-ordinates national air traffic control agencies, ATC strikes had delayed more 
than 16,000 flights by June this year, hitting more than 2m passengers.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said: “The right to strike needs to be balanced against freedom of movement. 
It’s not only customers flying in and out of France who are affected during French ATC strikes. Passengers on 
Four airlines complain to Brussels over strikes
routes that overfly France, especially the large airspace that covers Marseille and the Mediterranean, are also 
subject to delays and massive disruptions.” 
IAG’s low-cost airline Vueling, which is based in Spain, is particularly affected by French strikes.
The airlines said their case was supported by a 1997 European Court of Justice ruling that French farmers had 
prevented Spanish farmers exporting their goods into the EU.
Ryanair’s individual complaint said that while the right to industrial action was fundamental, “it is not an absolute 
right and if the industrial action restricts the freedom of movement, it has to be proportionate to the aims pursued. 
Ryanair considers the strikes to be disproportionate.”
It added: “France also hampers European airlines’ fundamental right of freedom to conduct a business in other 
member states . . . since, despite the fact that the industrial action in question takes place in France, the airlines 
cannot operate to and from the adjacent member states.” 
José Rivas, co-head of the competition and EU group at law firm Bird & Bird, said: “Ryanair invites the commission 
to carry out a delicate balancing test between the EU’s fundamental freedom of movement of people and services 
and the fundamental right to strike. 
“In light of the existing EU case law on the right to strike, the commission will need to carry out a close assessment 
and it cannot be excluded that it could consider that France’s inaction is contrary to EU law.”
A commission spokesperson declined to comment on the specific complaints until they had been analysed. “It is not 
for the commission to comment on labour disputes at individual airlines, but . . . the right of strike is a fundamental 
right of workers. We nonetheless recognise that delays or cancellation of flights have a negative impact for 
passengers and the entire EU economy.
“This is why in June 2017 we proposed non-binding good practices aiming to maintain the continuity of air traffic 
management in the event of disruption such as strikes.”
France’s Directorate General for Civil Aviation said: “The French constitution guarantees the right to strike. The 
French authorities are aware of the potential adverse impact on air traffic, and implement mechanisms to mitigate 
the consequences on passengers and airlines.”
Additional reporting by Alex Barker in Brussels
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair : better to bitter
Ryanair: better to bitter
 
FT.com
July 23, 2018 Monday 2:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 314 words
Body
Loyalty has a price, as Ryanair has been finding out. Low prices alone could not guarantee customers would keep 
coming back. The Irish airline launched its Always Getting Better programme to improve its much-criticised service 
standards a few years ago. Extra costs became apparent on Monday in higher pay for pilots and crew helping 
deliver service upgrades. Fuel costs had also risen.
That combination hit home in first-quarter results on Monday. Lower fares, higher labour bills and growing fuel costs 
contributed to a poor set of figures. Post-tax profits dropped a fifth to €319m, not including the small impact of a loss 
from associate airline Laudamotion.
Ryanair had already warned of the hit to profits and managed to beat analysts’ estimates. The shares declined 6 
per cent anyway. 
Revenues per “guest”, as Ryanair now terms bums on seats, actually rose. This is because more flyers are opting 
to pay up to guarantee seats or to board early. At 13 times earnings, the market will happily pay for these boosts 
too — more than it will shell out for most of Ryanair’s peers.
But hang on. Nicer to their customers and negotiating with unions? Shareholders might be forgiven for double-
checking their shares to see if they have the right company. The impact of pay raises on profitability remains minor. 
Labour only accounts for about 12 per cent of Ryanair’s costs. But if dealing with unionised labour forces becomes 
the norm — and that looks the case — then there is risk to efficiency longer term. In a tight labour market, where 
experienced pilots can earn €300,000 a year working in China, Ryanair has little choice but to play nicely.
Ryanair : better to bitter
This could mean throttling back on expansion. Seat growth is forecast at 7 per cent annually to 2020 by Bernstein. 
Always Demanding More might be the slogan if it describes the workforce. In that case, shareholders are right to 
feel nervous.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns of job losses from wave of strikes
Ryanair warns of job losses from wave of strikes
 
FT.com
July 23, 2018 Monday 11:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 493 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary threatened striking workers with job losses as the budget airline reported a 
22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in its first quarter.
The European carrier has been hit by a spate of strikes across the continent since it agreed to recognise unions in 
December and entered negotiations with them. Irish pilots are due to strike on Tuesday and cabin crew in Belgium, 
Portugal and Spain on Wednesday and Thursday.
Mr O’Leary warned of cuts to the airline’s winter schedule if strikes continued, “which may lead to fleet reductions at 
disrupted bases and job losses”.
Pre-tax profit fell to €345m, in part because staff costs rose by a third to €245m as Ryanair offered pay increases to 
pilots and other staff. Unit cost, a standard measurement for the industry, rose by 10 per cent in the quarter — 
previously Ryanair had guided 9 per cent for the whole year.
Despite the increased costs, revenue edged up 9 per cent to €2.1bn, driven by growth in ancillary revenues such as 
reserved seating and priority boarding. Passenger numbers grew 7 per cent to 37.6m.
Ryanair left guidance for full-year profit unchanged at €1.25bn-€1.35bn. This contrasts with rival easyJet, which last 
week raised its full-year pre-tax profit guidance up from £530m-£580m to £550m-£590m.
Ryanair shares were down 4.4 per cent in mid-morning trading, recovering slightly from an initial 6 per cent fall.
Ryanair warns of job losses from wave of strikes
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said he was “a little bit surprised” by the market’s negative reaction since the 
data were showing “continued good trading in short-haul over the next six months”. But he also said it was likely 
Ryanair would face strikes for a couple of years.
Shortages of and strikes by air traffic controllers forced the airline to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 
450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in compensation than the same quarter last year. Punctuality 
was down from 89 per cent to 75 per cent.
Mr O’Leary said ATC shortages and strikes were causing “widespread damage to airline schedules this summer” 
and he called the French ATCs “the worst offenders”, having been on strike for nine weekends during the quarter. 
He restated his commitment to file a legal complaint with the European Commission over ATC strikes.
Ryanair’s fuel bill rose 23 per cent to €631m, despite being 90 per cent hedged. Jet fuel had risen 47 per cent to 
$88 a barrel in the past year and the airline forecast a full-year increase of €430m in its fuel bill.
The airline faced challenges on the revenue side too, as its average fare price fell 4 per cent to below €39 because 
of “the World Cup, the northern European heatwave and customer uncertainty about pilot strikes”, said Mr O’Leary. 
Ryanair, which is engaged in a legal battle with Lufthansa regarding its takeover of airline LaudaMotion, said the 
Austrian carrier would lose “approximately €150m in its first very difficult year”. It had previously guided €100m. 
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair flies into a summer storm of strikes and cancellations
Ryanair flies into a summer storm of strikes and cancellations
 
FT.com
July 23, 2018 Monday 7:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1471 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Between cheery messages about its destination of the day, Ryanair tweeted last week that it would be cancelling up 
to 300 of its 2,400 daily flights on July 25 and 26 as its cabin crew in Belgium, Portugal and Spain were going on 
strike. 
The action covers more than a quarter of the budget airline’s daily flights to and from Spain, and higher in the other 
countries. It apologised, called the strikes “entirely unjustified” and informed its 380,000 followers that its cabin crew 
earn up to €40,000 a year.
This alternation between appealing and apologetic has become standard for Ryanair, which has been hit by strikes 
and shortages on two fronts — as well as its own staff, Europe’s restive air traffic controllers are hurting the airline, 
and its competitors.
Ryanair, which was Europe’s busiest airline last year with 128.8m passengers, said on Monday that strikes had 
contributed to a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profits in the first quarter. Shares in the group dropped more than 5 per 
cent.
The unions have a list of complaints, underpinned by Ryanair’s refusal to hire staff under local laws, with attendant 
rights and benefits; all cabin crew are employed under Irish law. 
Ryanair flies into a summer storm of strikes and cancellations
A member of SITCPLA, which represents Ryanair’s Spanish cabin crew, described having to use the EU’s health 
insurance card to receive medical treatment in Spain because, despite being resident, they did not pay local social 
taxes, and said staff could not get a mortgage in Spain because their payroll was in Ireland. 
Ryanair’s chief operating officer, Peter Bellew, said having Irish employment contracts made it easier for staff to 
move around its network, as well as providing generous benefits, and added that Irish legislation from 2012 allowed 
staff to choose to pay local social taxes.
The union member said few cabin crew staffers earn €40,000 a year: many of their colleagues in Spain were on 
€14,000 or, if based in Poland, just over €8,000.
“It’s not just about wages; it’s about the hostile work environment and constant bullying, disciplinary procedures for 
calling in sick more than twice a year, threats to transfer crew to Lithuania if we don’t meet our sales targets” for on-
board merchandise. 
Darrell Hughes, the airline’s HR director, denied the allegations and said cabin crew were not earning €14,000: “If it 
were true, they’d leave,” he said.
Two people involved in the union’s negotiations with Ryanair even said representatives of the airline threatened it 
would quit Spain if the strike goes ahead.
Antonio Escobar, who handles press for SITCPLA, said that with 13 bases in Spain and 830 flights a day, this 
seemed so preposterous that people in the meeting burst out laughing. Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair’s chief marketing 
officer, denied this threat and said it was “utter rubbish spun by the union”.
But strikes are growing in frequency. In December 2017, there was a one-day German pilots’ strike and earlier this 
year three days of cabin crew strikes in Portugal. Irish pilots held strikes on July 12 and 20 and have another on 
July 24. The airline’s German pilots’ union has also just balloted its members on further action.
These strikes are costly: when an aeroplane is delayed or cancelled, the airline generally has to pay passengers 
compensation under EU regulations. Flights axed in September and October 2017 after a rostering failure cost 
Ryanair €25m.
Even in countries where Ryanair has agreed to recognise trade unions, there is discord. Brian Strutton, general 
secretary of Balpa, said the British pilots’ union had been negotiating with Ryanair on pay, holidays and seniority, 
but “progress has been slow . . . The basic problem is that, frankly, Ryanair is still coming to terms with what 
dealing with trade unions is all about and they are struggling to adjust.”
Andrew Lobbenberg, of HSBC, said Ryanair had yet to begin to crack the problem: “Thus far we’ve got several 
unions that they’ve recognised but . . . they have not negotiated a single collective labour agreement.” 
He also pointed out the difference between cabin crew, who can be hired relatively quickly, and pilots, where a 
worldwide shortage is leading to pay inflation.
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, was not too concerned that resolving the strikes will hurt Ryanair’s results. 
Labour disputes “are in the margin” in terms of costs, she said, and “they’ve already guided to €200m of additional 
labour costs”.
However, she added: “There’s a risk that you start to see changes in working practices . . . that lead to a less 
efficient labour base.”
On the same day it apologised for its cabin crew strikes, Ryanair weighed in on the other problem grounding its 
fleet. It said 11 per cent of its 2,400 daily flights had been disrupted by staff shortages of French, German, Spanish 
and Greek air traffic controllers.
Ryanair flies into a summer storm of strikes and cancellations
“We sincerely regret these delays,” it tweeted, calling on national governments and the European Commission to 
deal with shortages “disrupting millions of Europe’s consumers this summer”.
Here Ryanair has found powerful allies. In a hastily arranged press conference, apparently broadcast from a 
smartphone, chief executive Michael O’Leary and his sometime rival Willie Walsh, chief executive of British Airways 
owner IAG, united to condemn ATC strikes and staff shortages. 
The pair announced they would file a complaint with the European Commission on the grounds that the regular 
ATC strikes breached travellers’ freedom of movement, one of the EU’s fundamental “four freedoms”.
Mr O’Leary, using his customarily colourful language, said of the French ATC: “These guys are frigging with the 
figures and covering up their staff shortages.” Striking was “a national pastime in France”, he said. 
Last week they gained another supporter: easyJet’s chief executive, Johan Lundgren, announced that his airline 
would also be submitting a separate complaint to the commission. “Disruption this year so far has been equivalent 
to all of 2017 …and we estimate this will not go away,” he said. 
ATC problems — and extreme weather — cost easyJet £25m more in its third quarter this year than last.
Eurocontrol, the EU’s air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m. A report from consultancy PwC found that air traffic control strikes had reduced the EU’s gross 
domestic product by €10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
Whether a legal complaint can resolve the situation is unclear. Peter Willis, a partner at Bird & Bird, has previously 
said: “Clearly any complaint in an area like this is going to be as much about politics as about the substance of EU 
law, and so a key objective of this action will be to put political pressure on the French government rather than 
necessarily to deliver some sort of legal ruling.”
Ryanair must steer a tricky path this summer between placating its staff, keeping down costs and managing the 
ATC disruption. However it gets through these obstacles, it is its passengers who may end up bearing the costs.
Beating the strikes to the south of France
If an airline goes on strike you can simply switch to another carrier; if the air traffic controllers strike you need to 
think more creatively.
The mundane but surprisingly painless alternative is the train — from London the Mediterranean is a day trip, 
sometimes not requiring a change. Several times a week Eurostar runs direct services from London to Marseille, 
taking less than six and a half hours. Booked well ahead returns are available from £90, although strikes are likely 
to allow only the higher rates to be available.
Alternatively, London to Marseille, Cannes and Nice, has several daily connections often requiring just one change, 
in Paris or Lille. Take a morning Eurostar to Paris, lunch at the Train Bleu restaurant at Gare de Lyon, then continue 
on a double-decker TGV to Nice (total journey is typically 9-10 hours).
One tip — the booking website loco2.com allows you to choose the class for each part of the journey separately; 
upgrading to first class from Paris to Nice starts from £5.
The money-no-object option is to fly private — online broker Victor, for example, quotes about £6,500 for a return 
charter of a four-seat Citation Mustang from London Luton to Nice. Such bookings can be made last minute, with as 
little as two hours’ notice for bookings; passengers need arrive at the terminal 10 minutes before departure.
Private planes are overseen by the same air traffic control system as commercial aviation — so strikes may still 
cause disruption — but come with greatly increased flexibility to avoid the resulting congestion, either by routing 
around delays or using smaller airports without backlogs of departures (alternative London options used by Victor 
include Farnborough, RAF Northolt, Blackbushe and Southend).
Ryanair flies into a summer storm of strikes and cancellations
Tom Robbins
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair blames strikes as earnings slump
Ryanair blames strikes as earnings slump
 
FT.com
July 23, 2018 Monday 5:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 354 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London
Body
Ryanair has reported a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit to €345m in its first quarter over last year as it blamed 
strikes, fuel and air traffic controllers for boosting costs. 
Staff costs rose by 34 per cent to €245m as the airline offered pay increases to pilots and other staff, but since it 
agreed to recognise unions last December, Ryanair has also been hit by strikes across Europe.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary warned of cuts to the airline’s winter schedule if strikes continued, “which 
may lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses in markets where competitor employees are 
interfering in our negotiations with our people and their unions”.
Unit cost, a standard measurement for airline costs, rose by 10 per cent in the quarter; previously Ryanair had 
guided 9 per cent for the whole year.
Nonetheless, revenue edged up 9 per cent to €2.1bn driven by strong growth in ancillary revenues such as 
reserved seating and priority boarding, and passenger numbers grew 7 per cent to 37.6m.
Mr O’Leary left guidance for full-year profit unchanged at €1.25bn-€1.35bn. 
Still, shortages of and strikes by air traffic controllers hit Ryanair hard, forcing it to cancel more than 2,500 flights, 
affecting 450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in compensation than the prior corresponding 
period. This had a knock-on effect on punctuality, which fell from 89 per cent to 75 per cent.
Ryanair blames strikes as earnings slump
Its fuel bill rose 23 per cent to €631m, despite being 90 per cent hedged. 
The airline faced challenges on the revenue side too, as its average fare price fell 4 per cent to below €39 because 
of “the World Cup, the Northern European heatwave and customer uncertainty about pilot strikes”, said Mr O’Leary. 
Ryanair, which is engaged in a legal battle with Lufthansa Group regarding its takeover of airline LaudaMotion, said 
LaudaMotion would lose “approximately €150m in its first very difficult year”. It had previously guided €100m. 
Before exceptional items, including its ownership of a quarter-stake in LaudaMotion, pre-tax profit fell 20 per cent to 
€355m.
The earnings per share fell 18 per cent to €0.26.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Opening Quote: Capita — punishment?
Opening Quote: Capita — punishment?  
 
FT.com
July 23, 2018 Monday 7:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 949 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Capita’s shareholders may be wondering why they stumped up £662m for a rights issue in May. New chief 
executive Jonathan Lewis told them it was needed to help turn the outsourcing group around, after a profit warning 
wiped £1bn off its value. Now it seems the UK government has turned around and wiped its signature off Capita’s 
contract to run the British military’s fire and rescue service.
Last month, Capita beat rival outsourcer Serco to win the Ministry of Defence contract, which involves the transfer 
of more than 2,000 staff at 78 defence fire stations worldwide. But, a day later, the Financial Times revealed that an 
assessment of Capita commissioned by the MoD had given the outsourcer the riskiest possible rating — in spite of 
its fundraising. 
Now Serco has challenged the government’s decision to award the contract to its rival — which means the 
outsourcing has been suspended.
Yesterday, the MoD confirmed that “the contract award has been suspended until a legal challenge to the 
procurement is resolved”. 
Apparently, official documents show that Capita scored 10 out of 10 for risk in an assessment by CompanyWatch 
on behalf of the government — where 1 indicates the lowest probability of distress and 10 the highest. 
By contrast, Serco scored just seven out of 10 for risk, according to the assessment — which led it to take legal 
action.
Opening Quote: Capita — punishment?
For Capita, the decision represents a blow to its turnround plans — and demonstrates the increased focus on 
outsourcing risk since the collapse of government contractor Carillion in January. This MoD contract was one of the 
first major outsourcing deals announced by the government since Carillion went into liquidation after failing to 
refinance billions of pounds of debt. 
Capita will hope that its financial recovery enables it to keep the military work. It has recently won other government 
contracts, including a two-year extension to a deal to run controversial disability assessments tests for the 
Department for Work and Pensions. 
Capita said of the MoD contract: “This award was based on a rigorous evaluation process that assessed Capita’s 
proposition as being the most economically advantageous tender, including quality, technical merit and value. 
Capita remains fully committed to the future delivery of the Defence Fire and Rescue Project and will continue to 
support the MoD on this matter.” 
Two other rivals experiencing a divergence in their fortunes — and reputations — are the low cost airlines Ryanair 
and EasyJet. 
This morning, Ryanair has reported a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit to €345m in its first quarter, as strikes by cabin 
crew and air traffic controllers increased its costs. But the news comes just a week after easyJet’s quarterly update 
said headline profit before tax for the year to September 30 would be higher than expected, at somewhere between 
£550m and £590m, up from previous guidance of £530m to £580m.
It seems EasyJet was able to avoid Ryanair’s big increase in staff costs in recent months. Ryanair has reported that 
its staff costs were up by 34 per cent, to €245m, after it agreed pay rises for pilots and other staff, and was hit by 
crew strikes across Europe.
These strikes, and others by air traffic controllers, forced Ryanair to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 
450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in compensation. This had a knock-on effect on punctuality, 
which fell from 89 per cent to 75 per cent.
And there may be worse to come. Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary warned of cuts to the airline’s winter 
schedule if strikes continued, “which may lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses in markets 
where competitor employees are interfering in our negotiations with our people and their unions”.
Revenue was actually up, however, by 9 per cent to €2.1bn, thank to growth in ancillary revenues such as reserved 
seating and priority boarding, and passenger numbers grew 7 per cent to 37.6m.
As a result, Mr O’Leary left guidance for full-year profit unchanged at €1.25bn-€1.35bn. For now . . .
And, finally, weekend reports that shopping centre owner Hammerson will need to sell assets have proved 
prescient. It was expected to announce a programme of asset sales this week to appease angry shareholders after 
a failed attempt to buy its largest rival, Intu. 
And this morning, it has done just that. Hammerson said it had exchanged contracts for the sale of two retail parks, 
Imperial Retail Park, Bristol and Fife Central Retail Park, Kirkcaldy, for a total consideration of £164m to Capreon. 
These sales bring Hammerson' s total proceeds from disposals in 2018 to £300m. 
Recently, the group attracted the attention of activist hedge fund Elliott Management, which has used derivatives to 
acquire an interest in the group of more than 5 per cent. It is one of several shareholders pressing the group to sell 
assets and return value to shareholders.
Expect more news tomorrow when the company is due to unveil a new strategic plan.
Today’s  Small Talk column by Kate Burgess focuses on double glazing company Safestyle:
Opening Quote: Capita — punishment?
Door-to-door double-glazing sellers have a reputation to live up to — tortuous “sign-now, pay-less-later” sales ploys, 
fly-by-night tactics and cowboy installations. They don’t disappoint — at least on hard sell. Just last week, Sheffield 
Crown Court fined Aim-quoted Safestyle, which is about the UK’s biggest maker of replacement doors and 
windows, for aggressive techniques flogging its un-plasticised PVC portals in Rochdale.
Read the rest of the column  here. 
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can receive it by 
email at 8am every morning by  signing up here.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Fast Europe Open: eurozone consumer confidence, Petra Diamonds
Fast Europe Open: eurozone consumer confidence, Petra Diamonds
 
FT.com
July 23, 2018 Monday 5:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 315 words
Byline: Alice Woodhouse in Hong Kong 
Body
 Brussels has  rejected the UK’s proposals on how to govern the City of London’s access to the European market 
after Brexit, saying Theresa May’s latest financial services plan would rob the EU of its “decision-making 
autonomy”.
Michel Barnier, the EU’s chief Brexit negotiator, told European affairs ministers on Friday that the British prime 
minister’s vision for the City’s future relationship with the EU would violate the principle that access rights to the 
bloc’s financial services market are a gift from Brussels that can be freely withdrawn.
His remarks were a rebuff to the UK government — which published its white paper this month on Britain’s future 
relations with the EU — and highlight the many conflicts between the two sides despite a more conciliatory tone 
over the Northern Ireland border issue at the same meeting.
Asia-Pacific equities were mixed on Monday as trade concerns remained in focus after G20 finance ministers and 
central bank governors warned that increasing trade tensions  risk undermining the global economy. Those 
comments followed on from Donald Trump’s claim that he was ready to impose tariffs on all Chinese imports to the 
US. The Topix index was down 0.4 per cent in Japan while the Hang Seng index was flat in Hong Kong and 
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 fell 0.9 per cent. 
In currencies, the dollar index, a measure of the greenback against a basket of peers neared a two-week low 
following Donald Trump’s comments against a strong dollar. Meanwhile, the yield on Japanese government bonds 
rose 5 basis points to 0.078 per cent on  speculation over possible changes to the Bank of Japan’s policy.
Futures tip the FTSE 100 to open 0.5 per cent lower while the S&P 500 is set to fall 0.1 per cent.
Fast Europe Open: eurozone consumer confidence, Petra Diamonds
Corporate earnings and updates for Monday include Julius Baer, Ryanair and Petra Diamonds.
•
09.30: Hong Kong consumer price index
•
15.00: eurozone consumer confidence
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Stocks to watch: Ryanair , WPP , GlaxoSmithKline , Atos, BT
Stocks to watch: Ryanair, WPP, GlaxoSmithKline, Atos, BT
 
FT.com
July 23, 2018 Monday 12:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 913 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Monday 13:00 BST
What’s happening
Ryanair led Europe’s airlines lower after it cut fare guidance to reflect weak summer pricing and strike disruption. 
The Irish group lowered its fare growth target for the current quarter from 4 per cent to just 1 per cent, and while 
management left year-end guidance for earnings and fares unchanged, the airline cautioned that visibility was 
almost nil on bookings for the remainder of the year. 
“We expect investors to start to question the equity story,” said Kepler Cheuvreux. “Since 2014, for many investors, 
Ryanair’s equity story has been that as the airline enters primary airports, where fares are higher than on average 
in the Ryanair network, their average fares should be positively impacted. Despite strong capacity growth in primary 
airports over 2014 to 2017, Ryanair’s prices have remained weak, below the performance of its main peers.”
WPP edged higher on reports that Alibaba, Tencent and China Media Capital Holdings are in talks to buy a stake in 
the advertising agency’s Chinese operations. Any agreement could value the WPP division at between $2bn and 
$2.5bn, according to reports. China accounts for between 8 and 10 per cent of WPP’s revenue and a disposal could 
unlock about $450m of capital, said analysts.
A strategic tie-up with Alibaba and Tencent “could help WPP participate more fully in Chinese ad growth, which has 
been difficult in the past as it’s dominated by tech giants”, said JPMorgan Cazenove. “That tech companies 
Stocks to watch: Ryanair , WPP , GlaxoSmithKline , Atos, BT
continue to utilise the services of agencies, even to the extent of wanting to take a stake in them, supports our view 
that there is an ongoing and important role for agencies. Trading on 8.5 times 2019 earnings, the current share 
price extrapolates from a period of slower growth to discount no growth, ever, which is overly pessimistic.”
GlaxoSmithKline gained after the Financial Times revealed that chairman Philip Hampton was talking to top 
shareholders about splitting up the company to possibly create a standalone pharmaceuticals and vaccines group 
in the medium term.
Citigroup analysts were not impressed, calling the suggestion of a split “an attempt by the chairman to buy time and 
support the recently rebounded GSK share-price despite (i) the paucity of needle-moving near-term [drug] pipeline 
readouts (ii) a still early pipeline (iii) high competitive pressures in key HIV and respiratory franchises (iv) 
constrained balance sheet.” GSK would not spin off or sell its consumer division unless the pharma business could 
self-fund operating costs and gain a market value sufficient to repel potential predators, Citi said, adding: “This is a 
possibility, but not a certainty.”
BT climbed after the UK government published the findings of its Future of Telecoms Infrastructure Review, which 
sets out a policy framework for regulator Ofcom. As well as setting targets for full-fibre and 5G network rollouts, the 
Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport said “promoting investment should be prioritised over interventions to 
further reduce retail prices in the near term”.
Atos of France led the Stoxx 600 fallers after agreeing a $3.4bn deal to buy US peer Syntel, which confirmed long-
running market speculation. Atos also posted disappointing second-quarter results, with the IT services company 
blaming weak US trends for a slowdown in growth. 
Paying 19 times earnings for Syntel makes the deal more expensive and less earnings accretive than Asos’s 
previous deals, which have tended towards buying cheap companies that need heavy restructuring rather than 
strategic assets, said Morgan Stanley. The deal also consumes a large part of Atos’s acquisition firepower and will 
be a drain on management time, the broker said, adding: “The fact investors are used to highly accretive 
restructuring-based deals may temper the short-term reaction.”
Sellside stories
● Jefferies downgraded Hargreaves Lansdown to “underperform” from “hold” with a £16.50 target in an end-of-
quarter review of the asset management sector. Its note followed the Financial Conduct Authority last week 
proposing to ban investment platforms from charging exit fees.
“To our minds, the recent FCA interim platform review did little to disrupt the economics of the platform industry. 
The negative that we could tease out is that Hargreaves’ valuation benefits from the high persistency of its client 
assets under management and reduced switching cost could impair value. On the other hand, Hargreaves has 
been a beneficiary of switching as seen in its market share gains. But, recent share price moves have pushed HL’s 
valuation in excess of the 10 per cent downside we require for an ‘underperform’ and we reduce our 
recommendation on this basis alone.”
Jefferies kept “buy” advice on Intermediate Capital, Man Group, Schroders and Standard Life Aberdeen. 
● In brief: McColl’s Retail downgraded to “hold” at Liberum; Bayer upgraded to “overweight” at Barclays; Swiss Re 
rated new “outperform” at Credit Suisse; Telefónica downgraded to “neutral” at Goldman Sachs; Wessanen 
upgraded to “buy” at Kepler Cheuvreux; Elisa raised to “buy” at Goldman Sachs; Gecina upgraded to “buy” at 
Berenberg; Sunrise Communications raised to “buy” at Goldman Sachs; Stora Enso upgraded to “buy” at Kepler 
Cheuvreux; Telenet downgraded to “neutral” at JPMorgan; Datalogic downgraded to “hold” at Kepler Cheuvreux.
Read more
Stocks hit as trade dispute stokes growth fears
For market updates and comment follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Stocks to watch: Ryanair , WPP , GlaxoSmithKline , Atos, BT
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
KPMG ’s chief risk officer must become an expectation manager
KPMG’s chief risk officer must become an expectation manager 
 
FT.com
July 23, 2018 Monday 7:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 824 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
KPMG Careers
Job title: Chief Risk Officer.
Role: As part of a long-term plan to invest in our risk management processes — and not in any way a reaction to 
seven regulatory probes into our UK audits, a sudden loss of clients following a South African corruption scandal, 
recent Bank of England concerns over our financial strength, or calls for our break up — we are seeking a Chief 
Risk Officer, to oversee our legal and risk management function.  
Skills and experience: Experience in delivering difficult messages to C-suite executives; ability to work under 
pressure.
‘Our deal’: Real responsibilities and opportunities to grow professionally. 
Tempted? Given the series of risks KPMG has  failed to manage of late — from signing off Carillion’s accounts to 
doing work linked to South Africa’s Gupta family — this job looks about as attractive as Ryanair Customer Services 
Manager, Thames Water Leak Inspector, or WH Smith Interior Designer. But Mary O’Connor, a lawyer and former 
regulator in both the UK and US, evidently does not think so. Or really does want to grow professionally. Because 
she is to become the first person to run both KPMG’s UK risk and legal functions, from next month.
KPMG insists her  appointment is unrelated to recent professional and financial worries, which led the accounting 
watchdog to warn of “an unacceptable deterioration” in the firm’s audit work, and the Bank of England to  ask other 
KPMG ’s chief risk officer must become an expectation manager
institutions about its strength. But if it is not a reaction to past problems, then it is clearly a reaction to the likely 
solutions — as UK chairman, Bill Michael, hinted. “We are operating in a period of significant change, and the risks 
we are facing are evolving,” he said. “Societal expectations of large businesses are also shifting.” That suggests Ms 
O’Connor’s role may shift, too.
Risk management now includes the risk of KPMG being broken up. After a parliamentary report called on the 
UK competition authority to consider  breaking up the Big Four accountants, KPMG and others admitted they had 
contingency plans for this. As a former regulator, Ms O’Connor, will doubtless be expected to focus her risk 
assessments on this.
Risk management may also include preparing for financial stress. While Mr Michael says KPMG is “in robust 
financial health”, the  FT Lex column has suggested BoE attention could force it to address systemic risk, as banks 
now do through “living wills”.
Risk management for auditors might even become something very different in a few years’ time: ensuring the 
accuracy of views on the risk of corporate failures. KPMG has admitted that criticism of its audits of HBOS and 
other failed companies “highlighted a gap between what society expects of an audit and what an audit has been 
designed to do”. Mr Michael’s use of the phrase “societal expectations” to explain Ms O’Connor’s appointment is 
surely no coincidence. This is a management role that will be all about expectation management. KPMG must hope 
it is a long-term contract.  
  
Under the Hammerson
When out-of-town retailers start flogging everything at a 10 per cent discount to their Boxing Day prices, it’s not a 
good sign. So how bad must it be when even their landlords are  willing to sell at a 10 per cent discount to 
December valuations? 
That was the question posed by real estate group Hammerson on Monday, after it sold two retail parks, in Bristol 
and Fife, for £164m — one-tenth less than their book value six months ago. 
However, unlike its west country and eastern Scottish tenants, Hammerson’s aim was not to suggest a bargain 
could be had. Quite the opposite. It was trying to show investors — notably  activist fund Elliott— how stubbornly 
high its sale prices could be. Hammerson needs to do this to persuade the market that its shares trade at too great 
a discount to its property’s net asset value. At present, this discount is 30 per cent — which makes the share price 
526p, well short of the 635p approach from Klépierre that Hammerson  rebuffed for undervaluing its assets. Selling 
something is the only way to prove that discount is too great.
So, does selling two retail parks for a 10 per cent discount make the case? To an extent — not least because out-
of-town retail parks are among the worst performing assets, compared with city shopping centres and premium 
outlets. If they can sell for only a 10 per cent discount to NAV, then a 30 per cent share price discount looks 
overdone.
But shopping centre valuations remain the unknown. An 11 per cent writedown of Landsec’s Bluewater suggests 
less popular destinations could be worth even less — but an illiquid market provides no price data. Hammerson’s 
strategy presentation on Tuesday will have to make like a Kirkcaldy cost-cutter: and sell, sell sell.
Tesco: Jack of all trades?
Does Tesco really want to call its low-cost store chain “Jack’s”? Give the two word slang phrase for ‘not very much’ 
beginning “Jack s . . .”, arguably not. 
matthew.vincent@ft.com
KPMG ’s chief risk officer must become an expectation manager
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Pakistan election, Juncker visits Trump, US tech earnings
Pakistan election, Juncker visits Trump, US tech earnings
 
FT.com
July 22, 2018 Sunday 3:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1418 words
Body
Monday
Corporate earnings
Alphabet will kick off a busy week for corporate earnings, and the tech sector in particular, when it posts second-
quarter results. Revenue growth has been solid in recent years thanks to Google’s core search advertisement 
business and this is expected to continue for the rest of the year, along with Alphabet’s other revenues such as 
apps, in-app purchases, digital content, Pixel smartphones, licensing and Google Cloud offerings. Low-cost airline 
Ryanair will post its first-quarter results to the backdrop of industrial action. The carrier finally recognised unions 
last year but agreements are proving hard to come by and strikes have already started. French air traffic controllers 
are also taking strike action, which will force airlines to cancel thousands of flights.
•
Ryanair flies into a summer storm of strikes and cancellations
Canada-Mexico trade talks
Canada’s foreign affairs minister Chrystia Freeland, finance minister Bill Morneau and international trade 
diversification minister Jim Carr travel to Mexico to discuss the stalled negotiations over the renewal of the North 
American Free Trade Agreement. They will hold talks with outgoing President Enrique Peña Nieto as well as 
president-elect Andrés Manuel López Obrador.
•
US discusses bilateral trade with Mexico’s president-elect
UK politics
Pakistan election, Juncker visits Trump, US tech earnings
Britain’s prime minister Theresa May takes her cabinet to Newcastle for an “away day”, which is expected to involve 
a range of ministerial visits and ties in with the Great Exhibition of the North. Parliament breaks up for its summer 
recess on Tuesday, but first Brexit secretary Dominic Raab and health secretary Matt Hancock will be grilled by 
Commons select committees on their new briefs, which they took on in the cabinet reshuffle forced by the 
resignations of Boris Johnson and David Davis. Mr Raab will be joined by Mrs May’s top Brexit adviser Olly 
Robbins, who has been leading negotiations in Brussels. Also appearing before MPs on Tuesday will be transport 
secretary Chris Grayling, who will be questioned on the problems facing the Intercity East Coast rail franchise.
•
Lessons for May from the torrid battles of Callaghan’s era
Tuesday
Corporate earnings
Eli Lilly will post second-quarter earnings with the possible sale of the drugmaker’s animal health business of 
interest to investors. Biogen is expected to report higher second-quarter profits, helped by sales growth of 
neuromuscular disorder drug Spinraza and its multiple sclerosis franchise. US wireless carrier AT&T is forecast to 
post a rise in second-quarter profits and investors will look for comments on the US justice department’s appeal of 
the ruling that allowed AT&T to buy Time Warner. An increase in phone subscribers is expected to drive a rise in 
second-quarter profits at Verizon Communications, while strong missiles and fire control sales are expected to 
help Lockheed Martin post higher second-quarter revenue and profit.
Wednesday
Pakistan election
Pakistan goes to the polls with analysts predicting a close fight between the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz and 
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, led by the country’s charismatic former cricket captain Imran Khan. It will be Pakistan’s 
only second transition from one civilian administration to another, but workers and candidates for the PML-N said 
they have come under pressure from the country’s powerful army, which some allege is behind the jailing of Nawaz 
Sharif, the former prime minister and party leader. If Mr Khan wins, it will be a rare victory for a candidate who 
comes from outside the country’s two major dynasties — the Sharifs and the Bhuttos. The PTI leader has projected 
himself on the campaign trail as an anti-corruption campaigner willing to take on the country’s established political 
elite. But his opponents say he has been supported and funded by the armed forces.
•
Pakistan’s Imran Khan embarks on final election rallies
Juncker visits Trump
Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, is set to travel to Washington for talks with Donald 
Trump in a last-ditch attempt to convince the US president not to go ahead with punitive tariffs on the EU car sector. 
A sign of the seriousness with which Brussels is taking the threat to its car exports is that the commission is 
pressing ahead with work to identify US products that could be hit with retaliatory tariffs if the initiative fails.
•
Full-scale trade war looms closer
Corporate earnings 
Facebook is expected to report a rise in second-quarter profit as the social network’s mobile adverts continue to 
benefit from businesses spending, particularly on video adverts. Boeing is expected to report a rise in second-
quarter revenue and profits helped by strong demand for air travel, while investors will look for an update on its full-
year financial forecast. Automakers General Motors, Ford and Fiat Chrysler will report second-quarter results with 
the focus on the latter’s strategy after the sudden appointment of Mike Manley as chief executive. More generally, 
investors will be watching for updates on trade tensions between the US and China, steel and aluminium tariffs and 
the state of new vehicle sales in the US market. Vodafone is expected to post a first-quarter slowdown in Europe, 
hurt by tougher competition in Italy and difficult comparisons with the previous quarter in its German division. Higher 
prices in Spain and a better performance in the UK should help offset this. Deutsche Bank reports second-quarter 
Pakistan election, Juncker visits Trump, US tech earnings
earnings with investors focused on the latest restructuring. The lender’s long-running efforts to find a sustainable 
model have meant revenue has declined faster than costs, eroding profitability further, which raises questions for 
investors over how and when the contraction will stop.
Thursday
ECB
The European Central Bank, which last month said it would phase out its three-year €2.4tn stimulus programme by 
the end of the year, is widely expected to leave rates unchanged. Given the policy changes at the last meeting, the 
next few are expected to be low-key. ECB president Mario Draghi’s post-meeting press briefing will be closely 
watched for any comment on how the trade spat with the US will affect European and global growth.
•
Quantitative easing helped vulnerable more than rich, says ECB
Corporate earnings
Investors will watch half-year results at Nestlé for evidence of sales growth accelerating at the world’s largest food 
and drinks company. Nestlé is under pressure to pep up its performance as the global food industry faces rapid 
changes in consumer tastes, increasingly severe cost competition and a wave of mergers and acquisitions. 
Allergan is expected to report a smaller loss as demand for its aesthetics products, including Botox, increases, and 
sales of eye drug Restasis grow. US cable provider Comcast is expected to report a rise in revenue and profit, 
helped by customer additions to its internet service. Analysts and investors will watch out for comments on Sky and 
other deals. Chipmaker Intel is expected to post a rise in revenue and profit helped by strength in its data centre 
business and investors will also watch for comments on chief executive succession plans following Brian Krzanich’s 
departure. AstraZeneca is set to post a 25 per cent drop in headline earnings per share to 64.6 cents, while 
revenues rise 2.2 per cent to $5.16bn in its second-quarter earnings. New product launches should be a key feature 
of the quarter, with launches beating expectations, but weaker divestment levels will hit income. Amazon is 
expected to post a rise in second-quarter sales, driven by solid growth in its cloud computing and retail businesses. 
Analysts also expect its successful Prime Day event to boost sales numbers.
Friday
US GDP
US gross domestic product data are released and renewed momentum in consumer spending over the past three 
months, growth in capital expenditures and a net boost from trade are expected to have driven a rebound in 
second-quarter growth. Economists predict GDP expanded at a 4.2 per cent annualised rate, compared with a 2 per 
cent increase at the start of the year.
Corporate earnings
Twitter is expected to report a rise in second-quarter profit as advertisers outside the US begin to warm to Twitter’s 
video ads. Merck is expected to report a rise in second-quarter profit as blockbuster cancer drug Keytruda gains 
traction. Investors, hoping to see a diversification in Merck’s business, will be looking for updates on the company’s 
pipeline products and comments on any future deals.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet to complain to European Commission as cost of strikes takes off
EasyJet to complain to European Commission as cost of strikes takes off
 
FT.com
July 18, 2018 Wednesday 6:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 303 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
EasyJet chief executive Johan Lundgren said the airline will file a complaint with the European Commission about 
air traffic controller strikes next week as it reported increased costs after a spate of industrial action.
In its Q3 trading statement, the group said headline profit before tax for the year to the end of September “is 
expected to be between £550m and £590m, up from previous guidance of £530m to £580m”. For the quarter, it 
reported revenue up 14 per cent on last year, to £1.6bn.
But it also predicted that the full-year headline cost per seat, ex-fuel, would increase by 3 per cent, compared with 2 
per cent previously, thanks to higher levels of disruption.
EasyJet blamed “the regular and sustained [air traffic control] industrial action in France as well as the impact of 
severe weather” for the rise in costs. It had to cancel 2,600 flights in the quarter, up from 314 the year before, and 
said disruption had cost £25m more than last year.
Mr Lundgren said the complaint to the European Commission would be based on the strikes “restricting movement”, 
breaching one of the EU’s “four freedoms”. He said: “Disruption this year so far has been equivalent to all of 2017, 
which has been challenging, and we estimate this will not go away.”
He added that EasyJet would file a complaint by itself, rather than joining competitors Ryanair and IAG, which have 
previously indicated they wanted to take legal action following thousands of strikes.
EasyJet to complain to European Commission as cost of strikes takes off
But it is also likely to benefit from a series of strikes affecting Ryanair this summer, which started with pilots in 
Ireland earlier this month and will soon spread to cabin crew across the continent.
The airline reported that headline losses relating to integrating Air Berlin’s former operations at Tegel airport would 
be £125m, up from a previous estimate of £95m.
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
Opening Quote: EasyJet takes off despite French strikes
Opening Quote: EasyJet takes off despite French strikes
 
FT.com
July 18, 2018 Wednesday 7:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1163 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Yesterday, the FT Alphaville blog declared: “OK, so it's summer. Officially. Posh schools have broken up (I 
assume). Important people are heading off to wherever important people go these days. News has reduced 
to . . . well, look at it. How do we pass our valuable time together? Results, I guess. Precious, precious in-line 
results.”
However, the FT Opening Quote email — being so much slower on the uptake — didn’t notice it was properly 
summer until this morning . . . because only now have we seen those two other tell-tale signs of lazy, hazy days: a 
water company imposing a hosepipe ban, and an airline saying whether customary strikes by French air traffic 
controllers will affect full-year profit. Sometimes Opening Quote wishes it was a French air traffic controller . . . the 
hours seem so much more agreeable.
EasyJet was that airline. In today’s third quarter trading statement, it said its operational performance had been 
“significantly impacted” by “the regular and sustained air traffic control industrial action in France” as well as severe 
weather. As a result, EasyJet has to cancel 2,606 flights in the period compared with just 314 in the same period 
last year.
Disruption costs were £25m higher, meaning headline cost per seat excluding fuel increased by 4 per cent against 
Q3 2017.
In fact, it has been so bad that chief executive Johan Lundgren said the airline will now file a complaint with the 
European Commission about the French strikes next week. He said the complaint would be based on the strikes 
Opening Quote: EasyJet takes off despite French strikes
“restricting movement”, breaching one of the EU’s “four freedoms”. EasyJet plans to file a complaint by itself, rather 
than joining competitors Ryanair and IAG, which have previously indicated that they wanted to take legal action.
But, despite all of this, EasyJet’s passenger numbers in the quarter still increased by 9.3 per cent to 24.4 million, 
driven by a 8.9 per cent increase in capacity, to 26m seats — although this was lower than originally planned due to 
all that disruption. Aircraft load factor increased by 0.3 percentage points to 93.4 per cent.
Total revenue per seat also increased by 4.8 per cent at constant currency, thanks to a lack of strong competition, 
bank holiday timing, and an 11.5 per cent increase in ancillary revenue per seat. It seems more customers chose to 
pay extra for allocated seating and adding bags — even though it didn’t get them to France any faster. 
EasyJet now expects revenue per seat to increase by low to mid-single digits in the second half. 
For all these reasons, Mr Lundgren actually expects a positive summer trading period, with full year capacity 
growing by c. 4.5 per cent — so he is raising the guidance for full year headline profit before tax to between £550m-
£590m, up from the £530m-£580m previously expected.
It seems it doesn’t matter if air traffic controllers take French leave. Plenty of Brits still plan to take their leave via 
EasyJet. 
And United Utilities was the water company that introduced the inevitable hosepipe ban — prompting inevitable 
newspaper ire over how much water it loses through leaky pipes. So this morning’s update from Severn Trent 
enabled it to highlight its relative lack of leaks or bans.
Severn Trent simply said: “We continue to focus on the things that matter most to our customers and we are 
pleased to be in the upper quartile of utility companies in the most recent UK Customer Service Index. We are on 
track with the £100m reinvestment announced in May which will benefit our customers.” In other words, you can 
keep those hoses sprinkling! 
And don’t expect anything to change any time soon. Severn Trent said it had made a good start to the financial year 
and — despite the heatwave — there has been “no material change” to its business performance or outlook since 
May. Full-year trading performance is, like all those results on Alphaville, “in-line with its expectations”.
Water saving is firmly on the summer, autumn, winter and spring agenda in China, however. So, for washing 
machine technology group Xeros, it represents a massive opportunity — and one that it has now taken. This 
morning, the group announced that it had secured the biggest ever licensing deal for its water saving commercial 
washing machine design, with a subsidiary of the market-leading Chinese manufacturer Jiangsu SeaLion 
Machinery.
Sea-Lion will integrate Xeros’ proprietary technologies into its own commercial washing machines and sell them 
through its extensive distribution network in China, on an exclusive basis. It will be the first partner to incorporate 
Xeros’ new drum technology, and sales are expected to come through in 2019. 
Approximately 27,000 commercial washing machines are sold in China every year and water rates are increasing 
significantly for industrial users across large parts of China. 
Xeros’ contract runs for a 10-year period with minimum annual sales targets agreed between both parties — but not 
disclosed. Xeros will receive a royalty on both machine sales and on the multiyear service contracts signed 
between Sea-Lion and the customer.
And, finally, the summer boardroom battle at Premier Foods is hotting up. Gavin Darby, the under-fire chief 
executive, has come out fighting in defence of his strategy to improve the fortunes of the indebted Mr Kipling cake 
maker. 
Opening Quote: EasyJet takes off despite French strikes
Ahead of a meeting today in which shareholders will vote on an activist investor’s proposal to oust him, Mr Darby 
used Premier’s quarterly trading update to remind investors that his “strategy of product innovation and working 
closely with our strategic partnerships is delivering results.” 
This comes in the face of a revolt by two of the company’s largest shareholders, Hong Kong-based hedge fund 
Oasis Management and US hedge fund Paulson & Co. 
They intend to use their combined 23 per cent stake in Premier to vote against Mr Darby’s reappointment at today’s 
meeting. Oasis has also called for the company to sell its fast-growing Batchelors soup and dried noodle business. 
Who wants soup when it’s 30 degrees? We’ll find out later if cool heads prevail.
Today’s Lombard column focuses on Royal Mail, junk mail and its deal with workers. 
Royal Mail’s new boss, Rico Back, opened something this week that began “Congratulations . . . ” But it was not a 
letter telling him he had won a prize draw and need send only £50 to cover administrative expenses. Nor was it any 
other type of junk mail. It was something far rarer: a report from that scourge of chief executives, Frank Field MP, 
congratulating Mr Back and his company on a “groundbreaking” pension deal with the unions — a very “model of 
constructive industrial relations”. 
However, it seems that both types of communication — the unsolicited and the solicitous — will determine how Mr 
Back’s first year turns out.
Read the rest of today’s Lombard column here. 
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can receive it by 
email at 8am every morning by  signing up here.
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet to complain to Brussels over air traffic control strikes
EasyJet to complain to Brussels over air traffic control strikes
 
FT.com
July 18, 2018 Wednesday 1:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 438 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet said on Wednesday it would file a complaint with the European Commission about air traffic controller 
strikes planned for next week, even as the low-cost airline raised its full-year profit guidance. 
Johan Lundgren, chief executive, said the complaint would be based on the strikes “restricting movement”, 
breaching one of the EU’s “four freedoms”. He said: “Disruption this year so far has been equivalent to all of 2017, 
which has been challenging, and we estimate this will not go away.” 
He added that easyJet would file a complaint by itself, rather than joining competitors Ryanair and IAG, which have 
previously indicated they wanted to take legal action following thousands of strikes. 
Eurocontrol, the EU’s air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m. A report from consultancy PwC found that air traffic control strikes had reduced the EU’s gross 
domestic product by €10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
In a third-quarter trading statement, easyJet said it expected headline profit before tax for the year to the end of 
September of between £550m and £590m, up from previous guidance of £530m to £580m. For the quarter, it 
reported revenue up 14 per cent year on year to £1.6bn. 
But the airline also predicted that full-year headline costs per seat excluding fuel would increase 3 per cent, 
compared with 2 per cent previously, due to higher levels of disruption. 
EasyJet to complain to Brussels over air traffic control strikes
EasyJet blamed the rise in costs on “the regular and sustained [air traffic control] industrial action in France as well 
as the impact of severe weather”. It had to cancel 2,600 flights in the quarter, up from 314 over the same period in 
2017, and said disruption had cost £25m more than last year. 
The negative news about costs was in part offset by third-quarter passenger numbers growing 9.3 per cent to 24m 
and revenue per seat rising 4.8 per cent. The revenue figure excluded costs relating to integrating Air Berlin’s 
former operations at Tegel airport, which the airline said would be £125m, up from a previous estimate of £95m. 
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said that easyJet was vulnerable to continued disruption. “Their network is 
highly exposed to congested airports and it’s those congested airports that suffer the most at times of disruption 
and during strike action . . . If disruption carries on at an elevated level, it’s unlikely they’ll get it back in yield.” 
EasyJet shares climbed as much as 4.7 per cent in early London trading back before settling back to stand 1.2 per 
cent higher at £16.73 by lunchtime.
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian admits transatlantic travel push has made it vulnerable
Norwegian admits transatlantic travel push has made it vulnerable
 
FT.com
July 12, 2018 Thursday 11:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 502 words
Byline: Richard Milne in Oslo
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle said its days of rapid expansion were coming to an end as the low-cost airline admitted that 
its big push into transatlantic travel had made it vulnerable to being taken over. 
Europe’s third-largest low-cost airline has been circled by buyers ever since the owner of British Airways 
announced in April that it had taken a 4.6 per cent stake and was interested in a full takeover. 
Norwegian’s capacity increased by almost a half in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, an exceptional 
pace for the airline industry. 
But executives and directors said that this quarter marked the peak as it now has more than 60 intercontinental 
routes, and the growth would be more modest in future. 
“You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes, we will come down to a moderate growth phase. Our focus will 
be on cost reduction,” said Bjorn Kjos, chief executive, on Thursday. 
Lufthansa became the latest airline publicly to declare it was looking at Norwegian, but Ryanair — long-rumoured 
by analysts to be a prime purchaser for the dominant low-cost transatlantic carrier — has denied an interest. 
Bjorn Kise, Norwegian’s chairman who together with Mr Kjos owns 27 per cent of the airline, said: “When you are 
going through a phase of big expansion, it makes the company — with all its costs, its investments — vulnerable.” 
Norwegian admits transatlantic travel push has made it vulnerable
Their comments came as Norwegian’s shares rose 7 per cent to NKr255.60, giving it a market capitalisation of 
NKr11.6bn ($1.4bn), due to an unexpected swing from a net loss a year ago to a profit of NKr300m. 
 Results were flattered by currency gains of NKr448m. Revenues increased 32 per cent to NKr10.2bn while its unit 
costs decreased 9 per cent despite a rise in fuel prices. 
The Oslo-based airline’s shares have risen more than 40 per cent since International Airlines Group, which also 
owns Iberia and Aer Lingus, revealed its stake. 
But its shares are down 18 per cent in the past three months as some investors think a bid may not come, as 
nobody appears to want to launch a hostile offer. 
Mr Kise said: “There has been interest from a lot of parties in the industry. We are very pleased. It shows us that 
what we are doing is correct and right. But there was no initiative from the board or shareholders to sell the 
company.” 
Both Messrs Kjos and Kise insisted they were not beautifying Norwegian for a sale. They also argued that recent 
announcements to sell off some of its aircraft and a possible divestment of its frequent flyer programme were part of 
its “long-term strategy” and not designed to shore up Norwegian’s balance sheet. 
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s outspoken chief executive, has frequently forecast that Norwegian would go bankrupt 
and other airline executives have said that its financial troubles — it raised NKr1bn in a share placement earlier this 
year — made it more attractive. 
Its suitors are also interested in its long-haul business and landing slots at London Gatwick, from where it flies not 
just to the US but also Argentina and Asia.
Load-Date: July 15, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair faces further strike disruption this summer
Ryanair faces further strike disruption this summer
 
FT.com
July 5, 2018 Thursday 5:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 574 words
Byline: Josh Spero, transport correspondent
Body
Ryanair faces strikes among pilots and cabin crew across Europe this summer after talks with labour unions failed 
to reach an agreement.
The Irish Airline Pilots Association (Ialpa) has voted to strike on Thursday next week, and cabin crew unions from 
Spain, Portugal and Belgium are taking industrial action on July 25 and 26. Italian crews will also strike on July 25.
Cabin crew unions estimate that 4,800 workers will be involved, a significant fraction of Ryanair’s 13,000 total 
employees.
Ialpa said its members had “seen no evidence whatsoever on the part of Ryanair management to engage in 
meaningful negotiations with a view to reaching agreement on the issues they have presented to the company”.
European cabin crew unions had asked Ryanair to apply local, not Irish, law to its employment contracts, but 
Ryanair “chose to continue to ignore its workforce”, it said. It called Ryanair’s practices “social dumping”.
Alex Paterson, analyst at Investec, said the strikes were “unhelpful” but it remained to see whether they were “a 
new normal”.
“Now Ryanair has recognised its unions, are they all going to test Ryanair very soon with threats of strikes or is this 
more isolated?”
Ryanair faces further strike disruption this summer
The Spanish cabin crew union, SITCPLA, said: “We and the rest of the unions across Europe have come to the 
conclusion that [Ryanair] are time-wasting. We are not asking for anything special, we just want basic rule of law 
and rights to be respected.
“We want Ryanair to be successful and the number one airline in the world. But the vast expansion and continuous 
erosion of workers’ rights have brought us here.”
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of a 
rostering failure that led to a shortage of air crew. Pilots were emboldened to push for better terms in the wake of 
the crisis and as Ryanair looked to recruit more cockpit staff.
In January, it came to an agreement with its British pilots’ union, which represents 600 employees, after offering a 
20 per cent pay increase.
Mr Paterson said he did not think the strikes would be nearly as expensive as the €25m that Ryanair had incurred in 
September, but added that they would consume significant management time.
Ryanair has suffered recent industrial action: a one-day pilots’ strike in Germany in December 2017 and three days 
of cabin crew strikes in Portugal this spring. In its annual results, chief executive Michael O’Leary said: “We will 
continue to deal openly and fairly with our people and their unions, but we will not make concessions on pay or 
productivity which threatens either our low-cost model or our cost leadership in Europe.”
Mr O’Leary had for decades vowed never to recognise unions. Regarding its Irish pilots, Ryanair said it had already 
given them a 20 per cent pay increase and called the strike “unnecessary”.
Ryanair’s German pilots’ union, Vereinigung Cockpit, is balloting members on a strike, with a result expected at the 
end of July. The union said: “Ryanair’s management, in our view, was not really interested in constructive 
negotiations.” 
The ballot also extends to pilots employed by Laudamotion, an Austrian airline of which Ryanair owns a quarter.
On Tuesday, Ryanair’s cabin crew, spread across 21 countries, launched a  charter of demands, which included a 
“fair living wage”, seniority pay, predictable working hours and the application of national law.
Ryanair did not reply to a request for comment.
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
End of Document
Manchester and Stansted boast of spare runway capacity
Manchester and Stansted boast of spare runway capacity
 
FT.com
July 5, 2018 Thursday 7:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 309 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Manchester Airport Group, which also owns London’s Stansted airport, has used its latest results to remind 
investors that it still has spare runway capacity, while the progress on expanding Heathrow grinds through potential 
judicial reviews.
Revenues for the group jumped by 10 per cent to £818m in the 12 months to the end of March. Pre-tax profit rose 
almost a quarter to £157.9m. Driven by passenger growth of 6.7 per cent to 59m at its three airports — East 
Midlands is the third — MAG increased its dividends by 18 per cent to £166m.
Manchester and Stansted benefit from spare runway capacity in a system where the largest airports — Heathrow 
and Gatwick — are currently constrained. Stansted has applied to its local council to increase its number of 
permitted passengers from 35m to 43m, which it says it can do “without increasing the currently permitted number 
of flights or the agreed noise footprint”.
Chief executive Charlie Cornish, said: “Manchester and London Stansted are the two largest UK airports with 
significant runway capacity and our investment will allow us to meet continued demand for aviation growth both in 
and out of the UK.”
The business said it had faced “challenges” during the year because of airline Monarch entering administration in 
October 2017 and Ryanair cutting capacity from its winter schedule. Monarch had been responsible for 5.5 per cent 
of Manchester’s flights in summer 2017.
Manchester and Stansted boast of spare runway capacity
In June 2018, however, Emirates Airline, the Gulf carrier that has become a formidable competitor for airlines 
including British Airways, launched its first services from Stansted, the UK’s fourth-largest airport, to the company’s 
Dubai hub. Stansted also had new low-cost flights from Primera Air and Wow Air.
MAG is owned by Manchester city council, Australian group IFM Investors and nine other local authorities in 
Greater Manchester.
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian fights for survival as predators circle
Norwegian fights for survival as predators circle
 
FT.com
June 22, 2018 Friday 12:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1369 words
Byline: Josh Spero in Brussels and Richard Milne in Oslo
Body
Bjorn Kjos was in quite some trouble. He was a paratrooper on a training jump when the line of his parachute 
became tangled. His reserve chute would not open. With only seconds left till he plummeted to the ground, he 
managed to free the line and landed shortly afterwards. That was 1967.
Fast-forward to 2018, and the 71-year-old chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle faces another test of his 
sangfroid. The airline he helped out of bankruptcy a quarter of a century ago to become the pioneer of low-cost 
long-haul air travel, finds itself fought over by some of the biggest names of the industry in what could be a fractious 
takeover tussle.
Lufthansa and the owner of British Airways have both talked about buying Norwegian, Europe’s third-largest low-
cost airline behind Ryanair and easyJet. Mr Kjos has said Ryanair has looked at making a bid but Michael O’Leary, 
Ryanair’s combative chief executive, has denied any interest.
“Either Michael O’Leary or I have a bad memory. I know who it is,” added Mr Kjos, talking to the Financial Times on 
a train from Brussels to Paris. 
Mr O’Leary as well as some analysts and investors have even suggested lossmaking Norwegian could go bust 
soon due to a stretched balance sheet and too fast expansion. 
In five years, it has gone from 68 aircraft flying 330 routes to 145 planes last year on 512 legs. Worryingly for a low-
cost airline, its unit costs have been increasing, ending last year up 7 per cent over 2016. 
Norwegian fights for survival as predators circle
Long accustomed to the role of underdog — Mr Kjos was born weighing just 600 grams while his twin brother was 
five times that — the Norwegian chief executive dismisses talk of the airline failing. “That’s exactly the statement 
they’ve made for 15 years,” he said.
Aeroplanes have played a central role in Mr Kjos’s life. His father, a farmer in countryside surrounded by mountains 
about 80km north-west of Oslo, started a side business using a small aircraft to take pictures of other farms from 
the air. His children caught the air bug with Jon, Bjorn’s twin, becoming a pilot for local airline Wideroe. 
Bjorn himself took a more adrenalin-filled route, leaving paratrooper training to become a jet fighter pilot on models 
such as the F-5 and F-104. 
Based in Bodo inside the Arctic Circle, at the height of the cold war in the early 1970s, he remembered “intercepting 
Russian aircraft when they approached the Norwegian border”. His time there served as inspiration for spy thriller 
Murmanskaffaeren, which he wrote in 2006 when boss of the airline about a Soviet agent charged with blowing up a 
Norwegian fighter jet.
His dislike of, and fierce competition with, Scandinavian flag carrier SAS may well stem from its decision to turn him 
down as a pilot in the 1970s. He became a lawyer and later on a judge but did not entirely lose contact with airlines 
— his wife, whom he met while hunting for grouse — was a flight attendant with SAS for more than three decades. 
His return to the airline industry was almost accidental — some friends in 1992 needed money to rescue a small 
airline known as Busy Bee from bankruptcy, and he became the biggest owner and chairman for the carrier that 
was soon given the name of Norwegian. 
A decade later, SAS took over Norwegian’s main business partner and the future looked bleak for the tiny airline 
that had just six propeller planes for domestic flights. 
Instead, Mr Kjos went all in and became chief executive in 2002, aiming to transform Norwegian into Scandinavia’s 
low-cost airline by using Boeing’s 737 aircraft. He succeeded, outflanking SAS on costs and marketing before 
placing one of the industry’s largest orders — for 222 planes — in 2012 and launching a long-haul business that 
sees Norwegian today fly to the US, Argentina, Thailand and Singapore as well as all around Europe.
Mr Kjos is no mere chief executive. Together with his law school friend and chairman of Norwegian, Bjorn Kise, he 
owns 27 per cent of the airline making a friendly deal — something Willie Walsh of BA owner IAG has said is a 
must — all but impossible to do without him. 
He has been clear in the past that he does not want to sell. But his response today appears more open. “My 
obligation is to run Norwegian as the CEO. If the board or the shareholders decide to sell, I will listen carefully to 
them, of course,” he said. 
Partly, this reflects the public interest in Norwegian. Carsten Spohr, chief executive of Lufthansa, told Süddeutsche 
Zeitung on Monday: “Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. 
This means that we are also in contact with Norwegian.”
That follows the news in April that IAG had taken a 4.6 per cent stake in Norwegian and wanted to buy it all. 
Norwegian has said it has turned down two approaches from IAG but Mr Walsh has said he will not enter a bidding 
war for it. Mr Kjos has also talked up the interest from other, unnamed airlines. 
Mr Kjos cast a critical eye over both IAG and Lufthansa even if he conceded a deal would be good for either of 
them. IAG, owner of Iberia and Aer Lingus too, has the greater route overlap while it is not clear what Lufthansa’s 
strategy is for its own low-cost airline Eurowings, according to Norwegian’s chief executive. 
The circling of rivals has rescued Norwegian’s share price, which has risen by 50 per cent to NKr276 since IAG 
confirmed its interest, given it an equity value of NKr12bn ($1.5bn). Much of Norwegian’s appeal lies in its still 
expanding long-haul business, the most lucrative part of Lufthansa’s and BA’s model. 
Norwegian fights for survival as predators circle
But as the airline has struggled to turn its losses into profits even with the best conditions for the industry in a 
decade, doubts are growing over the company’s future, particularly as troubles for the carrier could be about to 
increase.
Fuel prices are rising while Rolls-Royce has said there are problems with the engines that are due to power the 
Boeing 787 Dreamliners that Norwegian is buying. 
Cancellations as a result of faulty aircraft last year cost Norwegian tens of millions of dollars and lots of bad 
headlines as passengers were often stranded in airports for hours if not days. 
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said: “If you’re a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the 
stock.” A second analyst, who did not want to be named, is blunter: Norwegian could “go bust in the autumn”. 
Mr Kjos is sanguine about the difficulties. He argued that a fleet of fuel-efficient aircraft was the “best hedge” 
against higher oil prices and that Norwegian should be able to recover some of its costs from Rolls-Royce. 
The airline is shoring up its balance sheet with a private placement of up to NKr1.3bn as well as the divestment of 
as many as 140 of its aircraft and the possible sale of its rewards programme. Mr Kjos also stressed that the 
interest rate on the company’s debt was extremely low. 
But Norwegian’s financial woes are a big reason why rival airlines are preparing to swoop. A senior banker in Oslo 
says: “Norwegian had a great idea but you can question the execution. I think BA and the others think they can 
smell blood in the water.”
Pioneer of unbundling
Norwegian has been a pioneer in the unbundling of the airline industry’s business model, according to Bernstein 
analyst Daniel Roeska. Unbundling separates the seat fare — with its low margin — from more profitable ancillary 
options, including in-flight meals, rental cars and hotel rooms. 
A NKr1,200 flight to Miami would become NKr500 dearer if an upgrade option is chosen including two on-board 
meals, a checked bag and reserved seat. 
For Mr Kjos, that is part of the reason he believes Norwegian’s transatlantic routes will be profitable by next year 
despite Mr Roeska estimating that each such flight currently costs the airline €20,000-€25,000, or €300m-€400m 
per year. 
The Bernstein analyst expressed scepticism that a deal would happen given that the earliest IAG could change 
Norwegian’s routes to fit its own strategy would be the summer of 2019 and that the low-cost airline was continuing 
to lose money. 
“Who will put himself into the situation of . . . having a very tangible risk of the airline disappearing or needing major 
cash infusions until we get to that point?” 
 
Load-Date: June 25, 2018
End of Document
IAG and Ryanair plan EU legal challenge over air traffic strikes
IAG and Ryanair plan EU legal challenge over air traffic strikes
 
FT.com
June 20, 2018 Wednesday 10:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 548 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
British Airways owner IAG and low-cost carrier Ryanair are preparing a complaint to the European Commission 
over  air traffic control strikes which have led to 5,000 flight cancellations so far this year.
The two airlines claim that the commission’s failure to deal with strikes in countries such as France was breaching 
Europeans’ freedom of movement, one of the EU’s four fundamental freedoms. IAG’s low-cost Vueling airline, 
based in Spain, has had 50 per cent of its flights affected by strikes.
IAG and Ryanair’s complaint will argue that EU law is infringed by not adequately protecting flights over France.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said: “They are destroying European air traffic and having a huge impact on 
consumers . . . It’s a political problem that needs to be addressed by politicians, it’s not an airlines problem.”
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, criticised the “lethargy and inaction” of the commission and national 
governments. In Europe, air traffic control is managed on a national level.
“Nothing will get in the way of the four freedoms, unless you’re a French air traffic controller,” he said. 
Aviation lawyers said it was an unusual legal complaint. Peter Willis, a partner at Bird & Bird, said: “Clearly any 
complaint in an area like this is going to be as much about politics as about the substance of EU law, and so a key 
objective of this action will be to put political pressure on the French government rather than necessarily to deliver 
some sort of legal ruling.”
IAG and Ryanair plan EU legal challenge over air traffic strikes
It would not be a simple course of action, he added: “An obstacle to involving EU law in this case will be that the 
French ATC strikes affect domestic flights just as much as international flights. The commission is therefore likely to 
need to apply other pressure and not just rely on free movement rules.”
But some aviation industry advisers said the airlines had a legitimate complaint. Consultant John Strickland said 
French ATC strikes were “a massive headache” especially for flights to and from Spain and the western 
Mediterranean.
He pointed to the circuitous routes aeroplanes had to take to avoid flying over France during strikes, costing 
passenger time and airlines’ money in fuel and compensation. Airlines whose flights are delayed have to 
compensate customers, but they cannot reclaim costs from national ATCs.
“It’s a big issue and airlines for too long have been seen as relatively passive about this,” Mr Strickland added.
Mr O’Leary used his customary colourful language when talking about other reasons for flight cancellations, 
including bad weather. He said 60 per cent of weather-related cancellations happened on Fridays and Saturdays, 
which was statistically unlikely. He said ATC bodies were “frigging with the figures and covering up their staff 
shortages”.
Mr Walsh and Mr O’Leary were speaking as part of Airlines for Europe (A4E), a trade body which also includes Air 
France-KLM, the Lufthansa group and easyJet.
Eurocontrol, which is the EU’s air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 
per cent from 2017 to 14.3m. A report from consultancy PwC, commissioned by A4E, found that air traffic control 
strikes had reduced EU GDP by €10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian Air shares jump on prospect of Lufthansa deal
Norwegian Air shares jump on prospect of Lufthansa deal
 
FT.com
June 18, 2018 Monday 9:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 246 words
Byline: Josh Spero in London
Body
Shares in  Norwegian Air have gained almost 10 per cent after the chief executive of the Lufthansa group said his 
company was interested in making a bid for its northern neighbour.
In an interview with the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in Germany, Carsten Spohr said: “Everyone in Europe is 
talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. This means that we are also in contact with 
Norwegian.”
He said all acquisitions were a matter of value, price and opportunity, with “no simple answers”.
Norwegian has been engaged in conversations with several potential suitors about a takeover. British Airways 
owner IAG bought 4.6 per cent of Norwegian in April and made two approaches to buy for an undisclosed price, 
both of which were rejected by Norwegian’s board.
Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian chief executive and joint biggest shareholder, has said: “We are happy to have IAG as an 
investor. Needless to say, they are not the only interested party that has approached us.”
Mr Kjos has also said Norwegian had held discussions with low-cost carrier Ryanair, but Ryanair denied this: 
“There is no truth to these claims. We have not made an approach to Norwegian and we have no interest.”
Norwegian’s operating revenue for the first three months of the year rose a third from the same period a year earlier 
to NKr6.99bn ($879m), and the group’s net loss shrank from NKr1.49bn in the quarter last year to NKr46m.
Norwegian Air shares jump on prospect of Lufthansa deal
At pixel time, Norwegian’s shares were up 9.8 per cent to NKr273.
Load-Date: June 19, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian shares soar on Lufthansa takeover interest
Norwegian shares soar on Lufthansa takeover interest
 
FT.com
June 18, 2018 Monday 3:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 618 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Shares in Norwegian Air rose 10 per cent after the chief executive of rival Lufthansa said his company was 
interested in buying the Scandinavian low-cost carrier. 
In an interview with the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in Germany, Carsten Spohr said: “Everyone in Europe is 
talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. This means that we are also in contact with 
Norwegian.”
He said all acquisitions were a matter of value, price and opportunity, with “no simple answers”. 
Lufthansa declined to answer further questions. Norwegian said it had received several expressions of “indicative 
and preliminary interest in share acquisitions, mergers … and various forms of operational and financial co-
operation”.
Norwegian has said previously that it has had conversations with several potential suitors about a takeover. British 
Airways owner IAG bought 4.6 per cent of Norwegian in April 2018 and made two approaches to buy the carrier for 
an undisclosed price, both of which were rejected by Norwegian’s board.
However, analysts were sceptical about a potential Lufthansa/Norwegian deal, saying it made far less strategic 
sense for Lufthansa than for IAG. “The synergy values would be a lot less at Lufthansa,” said Daniel Roeska, 
analyst at Bernstein. “In a rational world, they should have a lower willingness to pay.”
Norwegian shares soar on Lufthansa takeover interest
Another analyst, who did not want to be named, said there was a “powerful industrial logic” for the IAG/Norwegian 
combination. BA would be able to protect its profitable north Atlantic routes from Norwegian’s long-haul low-cost 
services, it would increase its fleet and it would win more slots at Gatwick airport, which is operating near capacity. 
“None of that applies to Lufthansa,” he added.
Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian’s chief executive and joint biggest shareholder, has said of the IAG stake: “We are happy to 
have IAG as an investor. Needless to say, they are not the only interested party that has approached us.”
Mr Kjos has also said Norwegian had discussions with low-cost carrier Ryanair, but Ryanair denied this: “There is 
no truth to these claims. We have not made an approach to Norwegian and we have no interest.”
A spate of consolidations in the European aviation industry has followed the failure of several airlines in 2017: BA 
bought Monarch Airlines’ Gatwick slots, Lufthansa bought parts of Air Berlin, and Lufthansa and easyJet have both 
expressed an interest in Alitalia. The impact of a rising oil price on profitability has also prompted strategic thinking 
about consolidation. 
Lufthansa may be in exploratory mode, Mr Roeska said: “As long as Alitalia is not progressing, investigating the 
Norwegian case makes sense for Lufthansa’s M&A team.”
The second analyst suggested that interest from other potential suitors would benefit Norwegian by “beefing up the 
price”. However, IAG chief executive Willie Walsh told his company’s AGM last week that he would not engage in a 
“bidding war” for Norwegian.
Industry figures have questioned the sustainability of Norwegian’s business model, which has involved ordering 
large fleets of aeroplanes and expanding unprofitable transatlantic routes on top of its profitable short-haul Nordic 
business. Bernstein has estimated that Norwegian loses €20,000-€25,000 on each of its transatlantic flights, and 
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair chief executive, has predicted its bankruptcy as the oil price has risen.
Norwegian had negative free cash flow of NKr3.8bn ($463m) in the first three months of the year, although its 
operating revenue rose by a third from the same period a year earlier to NKr6.99bn. The group’s net loss shrank 
from NKr1.49bn in the quarter last year to NKr46m. 
Additional reporting by Cat Rutter Pooley
Load-Date: June 19, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa / Norwegian Air: carried away
Lufthansa/Norwegian Air: carried away
 
FT.com
June 18, 2018 Monday 4:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 418 words
Body
Success at poker takes guile, luck and calculation. Europe’s airline bosses need those qualities to profit from their 
industry’s consolidation too. Lufthansa has upped the stakes by expressing an interest in buying Norwegian Air 
Shuttle. The move sent the low cost carrier’s share price up 12 per cent. 
The move might be a bluff, some say. Bidding up the price of Norwegian would make life tougher for would-be 
acquirer IAG. It would not be the first such accusation. When Ryanair was said to be in the running, boss Michael 
O’Leary accused Norwegian of “trying to manufacture a mythical interest”.
But Lufthansa could be serious. It has made it clear it wants to participate in the wave of mergers in Europe’s 
fragmented airline industry. It could be in the running to buy struggling Alitalia, though the sale process is being held 
up by political turmoil. Having modernised its fleet and improved its margins, Lufthansa has the financial muscle to 
deal with Norwegian. The rapid growth of the airline run by Bjorn Kjos, the “Freddie Laker of the fiords”, has created 
deep losses and debts.
Even so, the merits of such a tie-up are limited. The operations of the two airlines are poorly matched. Nor would 
Lufthansa have a need for all the spare aircraft that would come with a Norwegian deal.
IAG would be a better fit. The benefits would go beyond the ability to damp down transatlantic competition. These, 
however would be significant given that Norwegian’s biggest long-haul base is at London Gatwick, in BA’s 
backyard. If Norwegian was valued at five times ebitdar, a cash earnings measure that includes rental costs, it 
would be worth €1.6bn, say analysts, after deducting net debts of €5.2bn. But this depends on cost cuts and, more 
nebulously, so-called “marketing synergies” totalling €3.3bn when taxed and capitalised.
Lufthansa / Norwegian Air: carried away
The implicit share price would be 30 per cent above current levels. That looks a stretch. The risks involved in buying 
Norwegian are real. Success is not guaranteed when it comes to applying the low-cost model to the long-haul 
market, where costs among the legacy airlines are already low. 
After two rejected approaches, IAG insists it will not enter a bidding war for Norwegian. The share price is already 
two-fifths higher than in the months before IAG revealed its interest. Investors expecting further gains risk 
overplaying their hands.
Lex recommends the FT’s Due Diligence newsletter, a curated briefing on the world of mergers and acquisitions. 
Sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: July 12, 2018
End of Document
Women’s struggle to gain altitude in aviation industry
Women’s struggle to gain altitude in aviation industry
 
FT.com
June 18, 2018 Monday 3:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 994 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
When the chief executive of Qatar Airways said this month that a woman could not do his job, industry leaders were 
quick to criticise. Akbar Al Baker was equally speedy in issuing his “heartfelt apologies” for a remark that has stirred 
up the gender debate in the aviation sector.
Whether it is in the boardroom or the cockpit, the aviation industry trails on the issue of gender and diversity. Only 3 
per cent of airline chief executives are women, according to a 2017 survey by industry journal Airline Business of 
the 100 biggest carriers by revenue. This compared with 7 per cent in the FTSE 100 at the time of the study.
The irony was not lost on some that when Mr Baker made his comments, he had just been appointed chairman of 
the International Air Transport Association’s board of governors, which only has two women out of 31 members.
When it comes to pilots, the figures are just as unforgiving. In the US in 2017, just 7 per cent of 609,000 pilots were 
women, according to data from the Federal Aviation Administration. 
Yet Mr Baker’s comments demonstrated at least one positive thing, according to Christine Ourmi￿res-Widener, 
chief executive of UK regional airline Flybe and one of the two women on the Iata board. 
Even five years ago, she said, no one senior would have condemned him. “[Mr Baker’s remarks are] putting more 
emphasis [on the issue] and it could help in the change,” she said. “What happened is good for diversity and gender 
in our industry.”
However, the figures illustrate how much further the industry needs to progress, particularly in areas such as pay.
Women’s struggle to gain altitude in aviation industry
As part of a transparency initiative, the UK government uncovered poor gender pay gaps in aviation. Ryanair’s 
median hourly rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet’s was 46 per cent lower and British 
Airways’ was 10 per cent lower. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent, while Ryanair had only 3 per 
cent of women in its top quartile by pay.
Personal experiences of some women in the industry also highlight disturbing examples of discrimination. 
Kathy McCullough, who started as a pilot in the early 1980s, said in the first years of her career discrimination was 
overt. “You should be home barefoot and pregnant in the kitchen,” was the attitude directed at her, she said. “I just 
tried not to bristle.”
Ms McCullough, who retired as a captain flying 747s out of Anchorage, Alaska, for Northwest Airlines, added that 
there were also subtler means of undermining female pilots in the industry. For example, men made check rides — 
practical flying tests — more difficult for women by “overloading them” and giving them “too many emergencies to 
deal with at one time”. 
“A lot of the time on the way up, when we’re flying for smaller airlines, the check airmen know that they’re 
competing for the same jobs as a woman so they make it harder or bust them because they know the airlines won’t 
hire women with records that are blemished.”
Many of those men were ex-military, Ms McCullough said, a reference echoed by Beverley Harrison, archivist for 
the British Women Pilots’ Association and a retired RAF officer. 
She said that “the whole commercial flying world has had a tendency to be ‘fed’ by retired RAF pilots”, and as those 
full-time pilots were only men until the early 1990s, there had been a systemic shortage of women.
Cindy Youngblood, a private jet pilot, said that early in her career she was surprised by a source of discontent: her 
colleagues’ wives. 
When going for a job, a potential employer told her, “very nicely, that he would hire me but his wife would divorce 
him”. Ms Youngblood says she appreciated his candour — she was not left questioning her ability — but pointed 
out he could not say that today.
Aside from that, Ms Youngblood said the men she had worked with had been “wonderful and supportive” and that 
she had not experienced the difficulties other women report.
Ms Ourmi￿res-Widener trained as an aeronautical engineer before moving into management and even today finds 
men patronising her, avoiding technical terms in case she does not understand them.
In the allied field of aircraft brokerage, the few female brokers find themselves excluded, said René Banglesdorf, 
chief executive of Charlie Bravo Aviation. There were “the slights that come with not being part of the good old 
boys’ club” and no appreciation for the intellectual diversity women brought, she added.
At conferences, Ms Banglesdorf said she was one of few women in attendance: “Sometimes that feels great 
because I feel like I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out.” At the CAPA — Centre for 
Aviation conference in Ireland in May — there were several men-only panels, and at Iata’s annual meeting, where 
Mr Baker made his remarks, male speakers outnumbered female ones by 19 to five.
However, progress is being made with networks to promote and support female pilots such as the International 
Aviation Womens Association and Women in Aviation International.
The latter organisation, which has more than 12,000 active members, is running its fourth  Girls in Aviation Day this 
October and has provided $11.5m in scholarships since 1995. Its corporate sponsors include large airlines, aircraft 
manufacturers and even Amazon.
Women’s struggle to gain altitude in aviation industry
Ms McCullough worries that progress can be slow in areas such as maternity leave, which has discouraged women 
from being pilots. “We are making progress but we shouldn’t still have to be having issues like maternity leave in 
this day and age — but we do.”
Many women agreed that there was no short-term solution, but that the right steps included encouraging girls to 
study the so-called Stem subjects of science, technology, engineering and maths at school, and introducing them to 
flying at a young age. 
Ms Youngblood said she received a flying lesson as a gift for her 17th birthday. “One hour — that’s all it took me, 
and I was hooked. You go up for that discovery flight and it becomes a realistic prospect.”
Load-Date: June 21, 2018
End of Document
Stobart spat looks like a recipe for the lawyers
Stobart spat looks like a recipe for the lawyers
 
FT.com
June 17, 2018 Sunday 12:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 694 words
Byline: Kate Burgess
Body
The spat between Stobart, the biomass-airport group, and Andrew Tinkler, former chief executive and director, 
edged towards farce last week amid accusations of mud-slinging, defamation and the rest. 
On Thursday, the Stobart board sacked Mr Tinkler as a director, claiming breach of contract and fiduciary duty. The 
catfight risks splitting the City, dragging celestial names such as one-time investor ace Neil Woodford, Invesco and 
M&G into the fray. Everyone seems to have reached for their lawyers, including Mr Woodford. 
Mr Tinkler’s talents in turning Stobart from a Cumbrian haulier into a multimillion-pound logistics group are manifest. 
But the castle-owning entrepreneur, a joiner by trade, has created less value than chaos in recent months. 
Two of Stobart’s four independent directors have threatened to quit should he succeed in unseating chairman Iain 
Ferguson. And he has stirred up more than the board. He claims in a letter to investors that 80 per cent of Stobart’s 
executives would like to see Mr Ferguson displaced by his man, Philip Day, the Dubai-based retail tycoon. 
Warwick Brady, who replaced Mr Tinkler as chief executive last year, said in a statement last week that Mr Tinkler's 
actions had “threatened to destabilise the company and severely impacted my ability and that of my team to 
manage the business on a day-to-day basis”.
Mr Brady wants a non-partisan, independent board to help realise his strategy for Stobart. Last week he illustrated 
how that might work, signing a watershed deal with Ryanair to use Southend as a base for its aircraft. Stobart 
shares rose 12.5 per cent. 
Stobart spat looks like a recipe for the lawyers
So why does Mr Woodford continue to support Mr Tinkler? He says he wants a new chairman to restore stability “to 
ensure that shareholder value creation continues in the manner that we have become accustomed to over the past 
decade or more”.
The fund manager holds a fifth of Stobart. Years back he was also involved in deals on which Stobart’s air division 
was founded.
Other investors have less reason to be loyal. They may say “he has made us money in the past”. They should ask 
“will he make us money in the future?”
Connect, unconnected
Connect, the UK’s largest distributor of newspapers that was once part of WH Smith, is already disappointed in the 
World Cup. Sales of football stickers have been slower than expected, it said last week. Profits will fall short of 
forecasts, and the dividend is under threat. The shares fell 45 per cent. 
It is not just poor sales of World Cup ephemera. Pass My Parcel, the click-and-collect delivery business set up in 
2014 with Amazon as its first customer, is continuing to lose money to the point where Mark Cashmore, Connect’s 
chief executive, is closing it down. Aside from Amazon, it hasn’t won any big contracts. 
Pass My Parcel was one of many attempts by Connect to diversify revenues away from the low-margin, terminally 
challenged business of newspaper distribution. As a plan it hasn’t worked. News distribution still accounts for 90 per 
cent of total revenues.
After demerging from WH Smith in 2006, Smith News, as it was then called, bought wholesalers Bertram Books for 
£8m in 2009 and Dawson Books for £20m in 2011. A year later it bought Consortium, supplier of textbooks to 
schools, for £38m. And in 2014 it bought Tuffnells, which delivers lumpy parcels, for £113m. 
The group’s progress has been just as misshapen. Connect’s revenues and profits are lower than they were in 
2013 and its stock market value, at £130m, is a third of what it was. Connect sold its education business for £58m 
last year, and the book division for £6m this year. Tuffnells remains but suffers from a killer combination of pricing 
pressures, poor service quality and rising costs.
Rivals such as DX talk of a challenges and a dearth of qualified drivers. But Tuffnell is inefficient, says Mr 
Cashmore candidly. “This is about self-help.” He reckons the division could make £10m in profits on £180m of 
revenues in time. But he won’t be around to see his recovery plan through. Last week he quit.
“The group has a clear sense of purpose and is ambitious for growth,” Connect’s website declares. It has a funny 
way of showing it. 
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to launch operations at UK’s Southend airport
Ryanair to launch operations at UK’s Southend airport
 
FT.com
June 13, 2018 Wednesday 10:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 352 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Ryanair has announced that it is opening a new London base at Southend airport, but warned it was not a “vote of 
confidence” in post-Brexit UK aviation.
David O’Brien, chief commercial officer, said: “Don’t confuse this great news as some sort of vote of confidence in 
the future of UK aviation, it’s a vote of confidence in Southend airport” and the airport’s owner, Stobart Group.
It was not a “reversal of opinion on the merits of Brexit”, which Ryanair has vociferously opposed, Mr O’Brien said.
Ryanair will be basing three aeroplanes at London Southend, representing an investment of $300m and more than 
55 flights a week.
Mr O’Brien also said Ryanair would stop its operations from Glasgow airport at the end of the summer, “not to be 
reopened for the foreseeable future”, because of the airport’s remoteness, decreasing demand and high air 
passenger duty.
Stobart Group is going through a period of turmoil as a former chief executive tries to oust the company’s chairman. 
Warwick Brady, CEO of Stobart Group, said he had been telling shareholders that “the current management team 
and stability at the board level” would lead to growth.
“Ryanair’s commitment to London Southend is real sign of confidence in the management team and my leadership,” 
he said.
Ryanair to launch operations at UK’s Southend airport
Earlier this week, Ryanair signed its second agreement to recognise a cabin crew union. This was with Unite, the 
British union, after an agreement with the Italian ANPAC/ANPAV unions.
Ryanair’s chief people officer Eddie Wilson said it showed the company was serious about its commitments to allow 
its staff to unionise. He said “practical and positive” unions in certain countries would yield further agreements, but 
“we are making less progress in some smaller countries where minor issues (such as days off for union officials) 
are unnecessarily delaying agreements”.
Ryanair has yet to reach agreement with its Spanish and Belgian unions, who have threatened to strike this 
summer if there is no resolution by June 30.
In January, Stobart Air — the group’s airline — named former Ryanair executive Conor McCarthy as non-executive 
chairman of its board.
Load-Date: June 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair boss offloads shares
Ryanair boss offloads shares
 
FT.com
June 8, 2018 Friday 4:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 279 words
Byline: Julia Faurschou and Tom Dines, Investors Chronicle
Body
Budget airline Ryanair is “on the pessimistic side of cautious” when it comes to the current financial year. Sales are 
expected to increase, but at a slower rate than costs. Last year was not easy, either, with rising fuel prices and 
troubles with pilot scheduling. Granted, Ryanair’s low ticket prices helped boost passenger numbers to more than 
130m with an “industry-leading” load factor of 95 per cent.
Perhaps one of the most significant issues causing turbulence at Ryanair is what it plans to do in the absence of a 
Brexit aviation deal. If an agreement isn’t struck before September, then summer 2019 scheduling could be 
affected. It doesn’t appear that chief executive Michael O’Leary is optimistic: he sold 2m shares at €16.49 (£14.44) 
each, leaving the airline boss with about 44.1m shares or a 3.8 per cent stake. A representative from Ryanair would 
not comment on the €33m (£28.9m) transaction.
Homeserve shares have performed well in recent months, jumping from about 720p in early April to close to 900p in 
early June, spurred by good recent trading and plans to create an online home repairs platform that promises to 
become the “Airbnb, Just Eat or Expedia” of its sector. The question is, why is management selling shares right as 
they seem to be taking off?
Johnathan Ford, the group’s chief operating officer, sold roughly a quarter of his stake, while global chief executive 
of the membership business, Tom Rusin, sold a fifth of his. Both sales were made just days after the release of full-
year numbers in which management announced its “best year ever” thanks to growing customer numbers in North 
America and a sharp increase in adjusted operating profits.
Ryanair boss offloads shares
Load-Date: June 9, 2018
End of Document
Qatar Airways chief Akbar Al Baker’s remarks stir up gender debate
Qatar Airways chief Akbar Al Baker’s remarks stir up gender debate
 
FT.com
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 3:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 521 words
Byline: Josh Spero, Transport Correspondent
Body
Akbar Al Baker, the chief executive of Qatar Airways, stirred up the gender debate on Tuesday when he said only a 
man could do his job.
His comment highlights a gender diversity problem in the aviation sector and comes at an awkward time for the 
industry as Mr Baker has just become chairman of the International Air Transport Association’s board of governors.
In response to a question about the underrepresentation of women in Middle Eastern airlines, Mr Baker said of his 
job as head of  Qatar Airways: “Of course it has to be led by a man, because it is a very challenging position.”
He later said that he had not meant women in general, rather that there was no particular woman ready to succeed 
him at Qatar. He added that the airline had more than a third of female staff and women up to senior vice-president 
level.
Mr Baker was speaking in Sydney at IATA’s annual meeting where director-general Alexandre de Juniac had 
previously referred to gender in his annual address.
Mr de Juniac had acknowledged: “As you can see from this room, we have work to do on gender balance.” He said 
the organisation now required gender-diverse lists of candidates for jobs.
IATA’s board, however, has only two women out of 31 members: Christine Ourmières-Widener, chief executive of 
UK regional airline Flybe Group, and María José Hidalgo Gutiérrez, chief executive of Spain’s Air Europa.
Qatar Airways chief Akbar Al Baker’s remarks stir up gender debate
Global figures for female airline pilots are poor. In the US in 2016, only 6.3 per cent of 96,000 commercial pilots 
were women, according to data from the Federal Aviation Administration.
Brian Strutton, general secretary of the British Airline Pilots’ Association (Balpa), stressed gender should not be an 
issue in aviation when recruiting a pilot. “Balpa believes that when it comes to being a pilot, or running an airline, it 
is the ability to do the job that matters, full stop.”
Airlines, however, have reported poor gender pay gaps as part of the UK government’s transparency initiative. 
EasyJet’s median hourly rate for women was 46 per cent lower than for men, and Ryanair’s was 72 per cent lower. 
British Airways’ was 10 per cent. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent.
Ryanair had only 3 per cent of women in its top quartile by pay.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which owns British Airways, said recently: “I don’t see it as an industry issue, I 
see it as a societal issue.” 
He said it was “an issue of supply” and that it would be easier if more girls did subjects such as science, technology, 
engineering and maths at school.
Mr Walsh added that he did not expect a quick resolution: “It’s taken 40 years for Aer Lingus to get from zero to 10 
per cent [female pilots], and that’s in an environment where they were actively recruiting women, ahead of a lot of 
other airlines.”
Qatar came 117th out of 122 countries in business school Insead’s 2016  Gender Progress index, with a labour 
participation rate of 51 per cent for women and 96 per cent for men.
But Qatar and its neighbours are trying to catch up with other regions by promoting women to positions of power in 
politics and business.
Additional reporting by Simeon Kerr
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach
Air France-KLM/Accor: butterflies in stomach
 
FT.com
June 4, 2018 Monday 4:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 342 words
Body
French government diversification into the hospitality industry has precedents. Sadly, Papillon, the book that convict 
Henri Charrière wrote about his all-inclusive trip to Devil’s Island, fell short of a five-point TripAdvisor review. 
Disease and murder were rife. Room service was mediocre at best. 
France should sell its 14 per cent economic stake in Air France-KLM but prefer cash to shares in potential 
purchaser AccorHotels. President Emmanuel Macron hopes to whittle down state ownership of business. A 3 per 
cent holding in the worldwide hotels group would not achieve that aim.
That is a reflection of how battered shares are in France’s flag carrier. They are trading at five times forward 
earnings, compared with seven times for IAG, owner of British Airways, and 14.4 times for Ryanair. The company’s 
high labour costs mean it is in need of significant reform.
AccorHotels will only say it is “reflecting” on whether to buy a small chunk of the airline. Strikes over pay have cost 
the airline more than €400m, prompting the resignation of Jean-Marc Janaillac as chief executive. 
What Accor could gain from owning a stake in a struggling airline is not apparent. Its influence as a big investor 
would be curtailed by the need for Air France to treat other customers fairly.
In a sketchy statement Accor said it would develop a joint loyalty programme. But it could presumably strike a 
marketing deal with Air France-KLM anyway, if it made sense. Equally, protection from takeovers may be implicit, 
even under Mr Macron’s softly-softly reforms. The stake would cost just €452m. The danger is that the €4.65bn 
Accor recently received for selling its property investment arm is burning a hole in its pocket. 
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach
As a hotel company, Accor’s biggest worry should be US room-sharing start-up Airbnb. It has made some 
acquisitions to bolster itself against online interlopers. In 2016 it bought Onefinestay, a UK home rentals website. 
Last summer it bought Squarebreak, a similar French company. Those deals make sense. Owning some of an 
airline does not. 
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Lightning strike at Stansted leaves passengers in limbo
Lightning strike at Stansted leaves passengers in limbo
 
FT.com
May 27, 2018 Sunday 5:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 369 words
Byline: Josh Spero and Michael Pooler
Body
A lightning strike at Stansted airport forced the cancellation of flights and left angry passengers in limbo on Sunday.
The airport said in a tweet at 9am on Sunday morning: “Due to an earlier lightning strike, the aircraft fuelling system 
was unavailable for a period this morning. Engineers have been on site and have now restored the system, 
however flights may still be subject to diversion, delay or cancellation.”
At noon, Ryanair — the airport’s biggest operator — had cancelled 23 flights and another airline Jet 2 had cancelled 
three. Later in the day EasyJet had cancelled one flight because the delays meant its crew were out of shift. Other 
flights were taking off with three- or four-hour delays.
Lauren Tuxford, a history teacher from Milton Keynes, tweeted that the experience had been a “shocker from 
Ryanair and Stansted”. Ms Tuxford told the Financial Times that she and her father were hoping to fly to Krakow to 
visit the Auschwitz concentration camp but Ryanair’s mobile app said they could not rebook their flight until 
Wednesday.
John Grant, partner at consultancy Midas Aviation, said he expected problems to continue for a few days because 
of “knock-on delays, with crew rosters impacted”. He added that this did not reflect on Ryanair in particular but such 
circumstances would have affected any airline.
Lightning strike at Stansted leaves passengers in limbo
Airlines have to pay passengers compensation for delayed or cancelled flights under EU regulation 261. Ryanair 
said: “All affected customers are being contacted and advised of their options of a full refund, a free transfer on to 
the next available flight or a free transfer on to an alternative routing.”
Ryanair last faced mass disruption — on a much larger scale — in September when it cancelled as many as 2,100 
flights because it had “messed up the allocation of annual leave to pilots”, according to chief executive Michael 
O’Leary. The cancellations affected 315,000 people.
It then cancelled flights for 400,000 people later in the month.
In its recent full-year results, Ryanair warned that the cancellations had cost it €25m because of EU261. It said that 
sum, added to rising staff costs, had increased ex-fuel unit costs by 3 per cent.
Jet2 did not respond to a request for comment.
Load-Date: May 28, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair : suits EU, sir
Ryanair: suits EU, sir
 
FT.com
May 21, 2018 Monday 2:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 433 words
Body
“Always Getting Better” is the slogan with which Ryanair has countered customer moans about its patchy service 
record. It worked until the Irish low-cost carrier ran out of pilots last year and many flights were cancelled. Things 
have — necessarily — had to get better for these stakeholders ever since. They could hardly have got worse. 
The stock price has fallen a fifth since August. Shareholders could do with a little more love too. They will not get 
any soon, given rising European capacity, which will hold down industry fares. Worse, Ryanair says non-EU 
shareholders may well lose their voting rights.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s boss, offered yet another of his cautious assessments in the carrier’s full-year results on 
Monday. As usual, he talked down the potential for fare increases in the coming months. Mr O’Leary also 
suggested earnings would decline a tenth year on year, double what analysts were expecting. If that troubled 
traders, you would not have known. Ryanair’s share price jumped as much as 5 per cent. 
This rally came despite a pointed warning that Ryanair remained prepared to restrict the voting rights of non-EU 
shareholders if Britain leaves the EU without a trade deal. That includes agreements over European air travel. Non-
EU holders can only account for a maximum 49.9 per cent of the shares for European airlines, so this is Ryanair’s 
response.
Including both UK shareholders and those holding American Depository Receipts, more than 60 per cent of 
Ryanair’s share register is non-EU. Although Ryanair’s solution looks elegant, and is permitted under its own 
articles, it remains to be seen whether EU regulators would accept it. And it takes no account of how shareholders 
may feel at having their voting rights stripped away. 
Ryanair : suits EU, sir
So far, ADR holders do not mind. Already these ADRs have no right of conversion into ordinary voting shares. The 
view is that Ryanair’s buyback of shares, €750m this financial year to end October, will focus on ADRs. Adjusting 
for the currency, a premium of 23 per cent has built up since autumn last year between the price of these ADRs and 
their underlying equivalent shares. It was a third of that a year ago.
Better is a relative term. Even after raising staff salaries,  Ryanair has the lowest costs among European airlines. As 
industry capacity rises steadily, revenue per seat should not grow, while oil and staff costs increase. With or without 
votes, airline shares are a poor investment.
Lex recommends the FT’s Due Diligence newsletter, a curated briefing on the world of mergers and acquisitions. 
Sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns on fuel prices, staff costs and Brexit uncertainty
Ryanair warns on fuel prices, staff costs and Brexit uncertainty
 
FT.com
May 21, 2018 Monday 10:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 485 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Ryanair has predicted a tough 2019 because of rising jet fuel prices, increased staff costs and the risk of a cliff-
edge Brexit. 
The warnings came even as the airline reported a strong increase in passengers and profits in its annual results for 
2018.
Passenger numbers rose 9 per cent to 130m and post-tax profits increased 10 per cent to €1.45bn, in line with the 
company’s earlier guidance. Revenue rose 8 per cent to €7.15bn and earnings per share were up 15 per cent to 
€1.22.
Ryanair shares rose 3 per cent to €15.96 by late morning in London trade. 
For 2019, chief executive Michael O’Leary said profits would fall to between €1.25bn and €1.35bn and that he 
expected a rise of 9 per cent in unit costs, with fuel alone adding €400m. He said: “Our outlook for FY19 is on the 
pessimistic side of cautious.”
At the end of last week, jet fuel prices had increased to $223.77 cents per gallon, an increase of more than 50 per 
cent on the previous year. The airline said it was 90 per cent hedged for 2019 fuel but expected prices to remain 
elevated.
Staff dissatisfaction has led Ryanair to start recognising its pilots’ unions, and while it has reached agreement in the 
UK and Italy, earlier in May the Spanish union broke off talks and its Irish union recently threatened strikes. 
Ryanair warns on fuel prices, staff costs and Brexit uncertainty
Staff costs in 2017-18 rose 17 per cent to €738.5m after early offers of higher pay.
On Brexit, Mr O’Leary noted that if the UK fell out of the EU, in order to remain an EU airline — and thus fly freely 
around the EU — Ryanair would need to be “majority owned and controlled by EU shareholders at all times to 
comply with our licences”.
To do this, the company said it might be forced “to restrict the voting rights of all non-EU shareholders”. The airline’s 
move “would result in non-EU shareholders not being able to vote on shareholder resolutions”.
The Financial Times reported on Sunday that Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair’s chief marketing officer, had said a good 
Brexit deal was looking “precarious”.
Despite the failure of three European airlines last year, Mr O’Leary said there had been “above average EU 
capacity growth”, which would continue into 2019 and put pressure on fares.
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said: “The company’s careful wording . . . highlights the risk that EU airlines 
may get squeezed between higher fuel prices and lower yields due to higher capacity into 2019.”
Unit costs for the financial year fell 1 per cent because of fuel hedging, compared with the 2 per cent Ryanair had 
predicted at Q3, and rose 3 per cent excluding fuel “mainly due to one-off EU261m [compensation] costs arising 
from our September 2017 cancellations, and higher H2 staff costs”, said Mr O’Leary.
In September, Ryanair had to cancel flights and ground planes because it had insufficient staff to fly them after 
roster errors.
This article has been updated to reflect a misinterpretation of a technical reference linked to costs
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Stocks to watch: Ryanair, Rotork, G4S, Ocado, AstraZeneca
Stocks to watch: Ryanair, Rotork, G4S, Ocado, AstraZeneca
 
FT.com
May 21, 2018 Monday 3:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1196 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Monday 16:00 BST
What’s happening
Ryanair climbed after full-year results from the airline came in at the top end of guidance, driven by a 7 per cent 
increase in ancillary spending per passenger that was better than expected. A cautious year-end 2019 outlook had 
initially weighed on the stock, with Ryanair pointing to net income of €1.25bn to €1.35bn compared with a €1.37bn 
consensus. 
“To some extent, it looks as though they have kitchen-sinked their labour costs,” said stockbrokers Goodbody, 
which highlighted Ryanair’s guidance that staffing costs would rise 19 per cent per passenger. “This is the main 
negative from management commentary and will call into question their ability to control labour cost inflation as they 
become fully unionised.” 
However, Goodbody retained “buy” advice on Ryanair. The acceleration in ancillary revenue growth was 
encouraging and guidance for flat fares over 2019 “looks cautious”, and with negative news on costs out of the way 
“the stock has now found a base with better news of fares to come at the next release in July”, it said.
Evraz led the FTSE 100 fallers after reports that the UK had not yet renewed a visa for Roman Abramovich, the 
steelmaker’s biggest shareholder, after it expired last month. Separately, Credit Suisse downgraded Evraz from 
“outperform” to “underperform” on valuation grounds.
Stocks to watch: Ryanair, Rotork, G4S, Ocado, AstraZeneca
3i hit a record high on the back of last week’s full-year results, and after Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad 
highlighted that it might sell part of its stake in discount retailer Action in 2019 when Eurofund V, 3i’s mid-market 
buyout fund, reaches the end of its 13-year lifespan. 
“Is this as good as it gets? Possibly not,” said Winterflood analyst Simon Elliott. “Despite its growing pains, Action 
still has the potential to drive 3i to new levels and there is clearly no hurry to exit the holding during this high-growth 
phase. A partial liquidity event will result from the expiry of Eurofund V next year, which may result in a validation of 
the business’ valuation.”
VAT Group led the Stoxx 600 fallers, seemingly in a delayed response to disappointing guidance last week from 
Applied Materials, a key customer of the Swiss valve maker. 
Applied Materials cautioned of slowing semiconductor systems sales growth and blamed weak demand for 
smartphones for holding back demand for OLED display manufacturing equipment. The display end-market 
accounts for between 15 and 20 per cent of VAT’s sales, according to JPMorgan Cazenove.
Altice slipped after MSCI said the telecoms group’s A shares would be deleted from its global standard and large-
cap indices, effective on Tuesday. The deletion follows Altice shareholders on Friday approving a spin-off of its US 
division. 
In New York, General Electric has agreed to combine its transportation unit with Wabtec, the maker of passenger 
and freight locomotives, in an $11.1bn deal that provides the US blue-chip company with a $2.9bn cash infusion. 
Shares in GE were 2.3 per cent higher in early trading. 
Blue-chip industrials, whose shares have been knocked back by tariff threats between the US and China, were 
firmer at the open of trading on Monday with investors relieved that the two countries were talking and had delayed 
the launch of a trade war.
Caterpillar is up 3.2 per cent, Boeing climbed 2.7 per cent and Deere gained 3.9 per cent. 
Micron Technology was the S&P 500’s biggest gainer after the memory chipmaker pre-announced better than 
expected quarterly sales and earnings ahead of an analyst day. 
Sellside stories
● BoA Merrill Lynch raised its target price on Ocado to £10.20 and repeated “buy” advice in response to the grocery 
delivery group’s landmark deal last week with Kroger. “By selling its online grocery solution, Ocado proved it 
developed a credible and profitable alternative to Amazon’s threat,” said Merrill. “With almost no competition, we 
see further potential for Ocado Smart Platform solution.”
● Barclays repeated an “overweight” rating and £65 target on AstraZeneca, saying first-quarter results last week 
from the drugmaker missed headline expectations but “beat where it mattered”. Progress with new products — 
cancer treatments Imfinzi, Tagrisso and Lynparza, as well as Fasenra for asthma — should eclipse concerns about 
costs and margins, it said.
“We acknowledge that pressures within respiratory/diabetes are clearly not abating, but nonetheless expect 
AstraZeneca to rapidly outgrow those and deliver double-digit revenue growth 2019-20 along with a 17 per cent 
core compound annual earnings growth per share from 2018 to 2021,” said Barclays. 
● Credit Suisse downgraded Rotork from “neutral” to “underperform” in a review of the European capital goods 
makers. 
Organic growth for the sector last quarter was at its strongest since 2012 but margin expansion was muted due to 
rising labour and raw materials costs, said Credit Suisse, which maintained a neutral stance overall. The maturing 
cycle meant organic growth was likely to slow in 2019, which favoured engineers with exposure to late-cycle 
Stocks to watch: Ryanair, Rotork, G4S, Ocado, AstraZeneca
industries such as process automation and marine, it said. The broker’s sector top picks were Schneider, Kone, 
Konecranes, Prysmian and Bodycote
● Kepler Cheuvreux started coverage of G4S with a “buy” rating and 310p target. It argued that a temporary 
slowdown in organic growth rates “provides a major buying opportunity ahead of the significant profitability boost 
expected by next year”, when G4S’s problem contract with the UK government to house asylum seekers is due to 
end.
“For the last four years, management has been busy addressing past issues. It has focused on repairing its balance 
sheet, selling non-core assets, discontinuing ‘onerous’ contracts and introducing new internal processes aimed at 
promoting operational excellence and providing more innovative security and cash handling solutions for its clients. 
Although this has made G4S’s investment case hard to follow, we believe payback time is rapidly approaching. 
Now, the company is poised to benefit from a series of self-help refinancing and cost-saving catalysts, while its 
portfolio has been pruned to the core, just as the group is about to return to a more reliable 4-6 per cent organic 
growth path.”
● Citigroup restarted coverage of Tesco with a “buy” rating and 290p price target. Citi — Tesco’s joint corporate 
broker — had suspended coverage while acting as an adviser for its acquisition of Booker. 
Using VAT returns, Citi estimated that the UK wholesale food and beverage market was worth more than £90bn in 
annual sales — three times the size estimated by the oft-quoted IGD Retail Analysis. IGD’s data appear to 
underestimate sales to caterers, which gives Tesco a large and valuable specialised wholesale market that has 
gone unappreciated, said Citi.
● In brief: BP cut to “underweight” at Santander; IWG downgraded to “hold” at Stifel; Ocado upgraded to “add” at 
Alphavalue; Saras raised to “add” at Alphavalue; Peel Hunt started coverage of Ten Lifestyle Group with “buy”; 
Jefferies started coverage of British Empire with “buy”.
Read more
Stocks gain as US and China pull back from trade war
For market updates and comment follow us on Twitter  @FTMarkets
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
US - South Korea talks, Catalonia crisis, Macron visits Russia
US-South Korea talks, Catalonia crisis, Macron visits Russia
 
FT.com
May 20, 2018 Sunday 3:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1712 words
Body
Monday
Ryanair
Labour problems and natural forces are expected to weigh on Ryanair’s full-year results. In September 2017, the 
airline discovered it had insufficient pilots for its roster and had to ground planes into October, which cost it €261m, 
on top of €45m in salary increases to co-operate more with pilots and crews. It has even agreed to start recognising 
pilots’ unions. Meanwhile, the storm known as “the Beast from the East” prompted cancellations across the industry 
in the UK in February and March. In the third quarter, the airline said it was 70 per cent hedged for next year 
against jet fuel prices, which have risen by more than half since last year, but this is an item to watch. In February, 
the company predicted full-year profits after tax of €1.4bn-€1.45bn.
•
Clouds on horizon for Ryanair after union U-turn
Tuesday
US-South Korea talks
South Korean President Moon Jae-in is to meet his counterpart Donald Trump in Washington. Top of the agenda 
will be North Korea, which last week sparked concern when it raised the possibility of cancelling a potentially 
historic summit with the US next month. Pyongyang accused the US of pressuring it to “unilaterally” abandon its 
nuclear weapons programme. It also took aim at US national security adviser John Bolton for demanding a Libya-
style denuclearisation of North Korea. Mr Moon’s visit is probably aimed at sharing strategies before Mr Trump’s 
planned meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Singapore on June 12. But North Korea’s recent 
comments about denuclearisation suggest Mr Trump can expect tough negotiations.
US - South Korea talks, Catalonia crisis, Macron visits Russia
•
North Korea’s summit threats bode ill for nuclear deal
Catalonia
Catalonia’s new leader Quim Torra must form a government to avert more elections and end a seven-month stand-
off that has rocked Spain. Mr Torra, a hardline nationalist chosen by the region’s deposed president, Carles 
Puigdemont, was elected by a 66 votes to 65 last Monday and sworn in as president of Catalonia in Barcelona on 
Thursday. His appointment helps ease uncertainty in the region, which represents one-fifth of Spain’s economy. 
New elections would have been called if the Catalan parliament had not agreed on a viable candidate to lead the 
region. Madrid has said it will end direct rule over Catalonia once a regional government is formed but it remains 
unclear how it will respond to Mr Torra’s pledge to pursue Catalan independence.
•
New Catalan leader calls for unconditional talks with Madrid
Chelsea Flower Show
London’s RHS Chelsea Flower Show opens at the Royal Hospital today and runs until Friday. It will feature gardens 
from designers such as Sarah Price, Jo Thompson, Chris Beardshaw and new talent including Tom Massey and 
Jonathan Snow. 
Halfords
Motoring and cycling retailer Halfords publishes its full-year financial results. The group said in a trading update in 
January that same-store sales rose 2.7 per cent in the 15 weeks to January 12 compared with the same time last 
year, boosted by a strong British cycling market. This followed an almost 10 per cent fall in underlying pre-tax profits 
for its first half-year after adverse currency movements hit retail margins. In January, CFO Jonny Mason said full-
year profits at the FTSE 250-listed group were set to meet analysts’ expectations.
•
Bikes and dash cams keep sales humming at Halfords
Shell AGM
Royal Dutch Shell is set for a confrontational annual general meeting in The Hague with shareholders prepared to 
revolt on a number of issues. Institutional Shareholder Services, the advisory firm whose recommendations 
influence votes at annual meetings, is threatening to block the chief executive’s €9m annual pay packet, citing 
concerns about high payouts and safety. An explosion involving a road tanker operated by a Shell contractor in 
Pakistan last year caused more than 200 deaths and led to a $2.4m fine for the company’s local subsidiary. A group 
of activist investors has also declared support for a resolution calling on the Anglo-Dutch oil company to adopt 
tougher targets for reducing its carbon footprint. 
•
Shell faces new revolt as chief’s €9m pay stirs investor concern
Wednesday
UK CPI
Bank of England economists will be keeping a close watch when the Office for National Statistics publishes its 
Consumer Prices Indices for April 2018. Last month’s CPI figure showed that inflation in March was 2.5 per cent, 
below the 2.7 per cent expected by economists. Falling inflation and improving wage growth has not led to 
increased household spending, with people choosing to rebuild their savings as optimism about the future of the 
overall economy declines. Worries about slowing consumer expenditure saw the Bank of England Monetary Policy 
Committee hold off on increasing interest rates at its May meeting. 
•
UK inflation falls sharply to 2.5%
Marks and Spencer
US - South Korea talks, Catalonia crisis, Macron visits Russia
Clothing sales used to be what concerned Marks and Spencer investors. Now they can add food: at its last trading 
update M&S warned of “ongoing underperformance” in food sales, where it has struggled to pass on price 
increases to customers. The latest data from market research group Nielsen suggest there has been little let-up 
since, and the group replaced its head of food at the end of April — one of a flurry of management changes in 
recent months. Analysts expect pre-tax profit of £573m before adjustments for the year to March 2018, around 7 
per cent less than last year. They will be alert to any further deterioration in trading and will also be looking out for 
any sign of tension between chief executive Steve Rowe, a company lifer, and chairman Archie Norman, a 
turnround specialist. 
•
M&S shows the strain with declines in food and clothing
Thursday
Macron in Russia
French president Emmanuel Macron meets his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin at the St Petersburg 
International Economic Forum amid rising tensions in the Middle East after US president Donald Trump pulled out 
of the multilateral Iran nuclear deal. The meeting follows US, UK and French air strikes last month against assets 
held by the Russia-supported Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad, in retaliation for a suspected chemical attack on 
civilians. EU attention has since shifted to salvaging the Iranian nuclear deal, notably with the help of Russia, a 
fellow signatory to the 2015 Vienna accord. Mr Macron is likely to talk about enforcement of the Minsk ceasefire 
agreement between Ukraine and Russia after Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014. 
•
Europeans look to salvage Iran deal without Trump
Merkel visits China
Germany’s Angela Merkel arrives in China on a two-day visit for her first talks with Xi Jinping since being re-elected 
to a fourth term as chancellor in March. The talks are expected to focus on the crises triggered by Donald Trump’s 
decision to quit the Iran nuclear deal and impose tariffs on imported steel and aluminium. Germany and China are 
both concerned that Mr Trump’s tariff could unleash a trade war. As big exporters, both countries are highly 
sensitive to any disruption in international trade flows. But, like the US, Germany also has grievances against China 
— particularly the issues of access to the Chinese market and technology transfers from German companies. As 
well as speaking to Xi Jinping, Ms Merkel will hold talks with prime minister Li Keqiang.
•
Merkel and Xi agree to tackle steel output within G20
South Africa
The South African Reserve Bank ends its three-day Monetary Policy Committee meeting to review and set its repo 
rate. A Reuters poll of 25 economists predicts the central bank will hold rates at 6.5% after a bout of volatility in the 
rand. The currency fell to R12.78 to the dollar on Friday afternoon — a five-month low.
•
South Africa’s central bank cuts interest rates to 2-year low
Friday
Ireland abortion 
Irish voters go the polls in a referendum to repeal the country’s constitutional ban on abortion. The abortion 
question is one of the most contentious in the politics of a once strongly-Catholic country that voted in 2015 to 
legalise gay marriage. But surveys suggest the campaign to remove the ban has a large but narrowing lead. 
•
US tech giants caught up in Irish abortion debate
SSE
US - South Korea talks, Catalonia crisis, Macron visits Russia
London-listed SSE, one of the UK’s ‘big six’ energy suppliers, announces its preliminary results. Analysts expect a 
boost to profits from higher demand for gas and gas-fired power during snow and freezing weather at the end of 
February and start of March. But the year ahead faces challenges, not least the proposed merger of the household 
supply business of SSE and Npower, owned by Germany’s Innogy, which has been referred for an in-depth 
investigation by the Competition and Markets Authority. 
•
Competition watchdog refers SSE and Npower merger for full probe
GDPR
The European General Data Protection Regulation comes into force, representing the biggest change to data 
protection rules in two decades in the UK. GDPR, which will affect any organisation that processes the personal 
data of consumers and citizens inside the EU, will introduce tougher rules around privacy, user consent and the 
notification of data breaches. It also makes the concept of “privacy by design” — that is, putting data protection at 
the heart of systems and operations — a legal requirement for the first time. MEPs and national MPs are to meet in 
Brussels for discussions on implementation with law enforcement authorities, intergovernmental organisations and 
business.
•
UK business confidence about GDPR preparation falls
Sunday
Colombia elections
Colombians are likely to buck the global populist trend in presidential elections today and vote for a centre-right 
candidate from the establishment. Ivan Duque, 41, a protégé of former president, Alvaro Uribe, comfortably leads 
polls, with 34 per cent of the vote. That lead is probably not enough to win outright in the first round vote, but it is 
enough to propel him into the June 17 run-off. There his rival will most likely be Gustavo Petro, a former M-19 
guerrilla and mayor of Bogotá, polling at 23 per cent. The electoral race has been polarised by President Juan 
Manuel Santos’ controversial peace deal with the FARC, a Marxist guerrilla group, and the implosion of 
neighbouring socialist Venezuela. The polarisation has seen more centrist candidates fall away. 
•
Former guerrilla makes radical pitch for Colombian presidency
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Europe airlines face ‘precarious’ Brexit transition
Europe airlines face ‘precarious’ Brexit transition
 
FT.com
May 20, 2018 Sunday 9:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 499 words
Byline: Josh Spero in Dublin
Body
European airlines are facing a “precarious” transition as uncertainty surrounding Britain’s exit from the EU 
intensifies in the industry.
Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair’s chief marketing officer, said he feared “hardcore Brexiters” were putting in doubt a draft 
transition deal that would allow airlines to continue flying freely between the UK and EU.
UK Prime Minister Theresa May had agreed to the draft transition in March, but Mr Jacobs feared pressure from 
pro-Brexit MPs would lead to the deal not being signed. This would mean there was no UK-EU agreement in place 
after Britain’s exit.
If this happens, Ireland-based Ryanair would lose rights to fly freely into the UK and its few intra-UK routes could 
also be  impaired. 
From the UK’s perspective, Britain-based airlines including British Airways and Virgin Atlantic would also lose rights 
to fly freely into the EU and US.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has previously warned about the threat to airlines from Brexit. 
In the company’s full-year results for 2016-17, Mr O’Leary said: “Until we get clarity over the final terms of the UK’s 
future trading relationship with the EU, there must be significant uncertainty over flights between the UK and the EU 
for a period of time from March 2019 onwards.”
Europe airlines face ‘precarious’ Brexit transition
Mr Jacobs’ warning comes at a difficult time for European carriers. Air France-KLM is looking for a permanent chief 
executive after unions forced the resignation of Jean-Marc Janaillac this month (May). Strikes have cost it more 
than €300m.
In 2017, three mid-size European airlines went bankrupt: Alitalia, Air Berlin and Monarch, while BA, which took a 
4.6 per cent stake in Norwegian Air, has had two proposals to buy the airline rejected by the board.
Mr Jacobs, speaking on the fringes of the CAPA Airline Leader Summit in Ireland, said he wished President 
Emmanuel Macron of France “godspeed” with his efforts to reform French institutions, including Air France-KLM, of 
which the state owns 14 per cent.
Ryanair could face ownership issues after Brexit too. EU regulations say that the bloc’s airlines should be majority-
owned by EU nationals. According to the latest estimates, Ryanair is 60 per cent owned by EU nationals but that 
drops to 40 per cent once UK shareholders are excluded.
Mr Jacobs said this was not a “straightforward” problem given the airline’s significant UK shareholders, who were 
considering options including moving their holdings from London to Frankfurt and even selling them down.
In March, the Financial Times reported that UK-based airlines would suffer a similar problem. Under the terms of a 
post-Brexit bilateral deal, the US would expect British airlines to be majority-owned and controlled by British parties. 
British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Norwegian UK have large foreign shareholders.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, owner of British Airways and Iberia, said the company would not face any 
ownership issues as a result of Brexit. But Mr Jacobs said Ryanair was “more realistic” than Mr Walsh.
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Best of Lex: your weekly round-up
Best of Lex: your weekly round-up
 
FT.com
May 18, 2018 Friday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 660 words
Byline: Tom Braithwaite in San Francisco
Body
Dear readers,
Here in Silicon Valley, we tried and  failed to shed a tear for Facebook or Theranos. Both retain the unstinting, 
unreasoning, undeserved support of Tim Draper, a local venture capitalist who thinks the government should stop 
“picking on” the social media company and journalists should stop writing mean things about the blood-testing start-
up, even though the Securities and Exchange Commission has now deemed it a “massive fraud”. We did manage 
some heartfelt sympathy for Rupert Murdoch, though, who             lost a bundle of money on Theranos thanks, in 
part, to the enterprising work of one of his own             reporters.
I don’t know what the German for schadenfreude is but, anyway, there is none on display at easyJet, the budget 
airline profiting from the demise of Air Berlin, from which it purchased slots at Tegel airport. However, 
easyJet shares are showing signs of altitude sickness at 16 times forward earnings, the highest valuation among its 
European peers. Labour productivity is weak, cost control is no better than Ryanair and that Air Berlin slot win is 
rather distorting capacity metrics.
The lack of candour around the  departure of Martin Sorrell from WPP is quite remarkable. Proxy adviser Glass 
Lewis thinks it should cost the job of chairman Roberto Quarta; shareholders will get a vote next month. On the one 
hand, those shareholders have enjoyed a double-digit percentage gain since Sir Martin bade his mysterious 
farewell. On the other, that pop is mainly on hopes that a lucrative break-up may follow on from the founder’s 
departure.
For questionable leadership, though, WPP cannot compete with Xerox, which really lowers the toner. The copier 
company announced a merger with Fuji of Japan, bitterly contested by the US company’s activist shareholders Carl 
Best of Lex: your weekly round-up
Icahn and Darwin Deason. Mr Deason sued. A New York court concluded chief executive Jeff Jacobson was 
“hopelessly conflicted” in negotiating the deal. He had been told by his chairman that he was likely to be replaced 
but proceeded with the transaction. Then Xerox settled with the activists and Mr Jacobson agreed to step down. 
Then Xerox reversed that decision. Then it fired Mr Jacobson anyway. Given the glaring ineptitude of Xerox, we 
wondered instead about the  tactics of the activists: why not just concentrate on winning the shareholder vote on the 
Fuji deal and avoid all the drama? Now it is their problem. Aged 82, Mr Icahn has to hawk photocopiers.
As Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg informed an ignorant member of Congress during one of his recent sessions being 
“picked on”, China has internet companies too.  Tencent results this week showed revenue growth rattling along at 
48 per cent a year in the first quarter to Rmb73.5bn ($11.5bn). Churlishly, we warned that investors should look at 
dwindling operating margins, weighed down by loosely defined “other” business units, whose revenue is no more 
than a fifth of the total.
The UK and US diverged this week in gambling rules. The UK government  cut sharply the amount that can be 
wagered at fixed-odds betting terminals from £100 to £2, with concerns over addiction outweighing the tax hit. The 
US Supreme Court             ruled that a law preventing states from allowing sports betting was unconstitutional. In 
aggregate, this might seem bad news for UK gambling groups but that is not the case: the UK clampdown was 
priced in while UK groups such as William Hill have been laying the groundwork for several years for a dash for 
growth in the US. William Hill still needs a lot of restructuring — and a private equity bid remains possible. Even if it 
has cleverly positioned itself in Nevada and New Jersey, it may need to shed stores in Norwich and Nuneaton.
I wish you a winning weekend,
Tom Braithwaite
Lex writer
Best of Lex articles
•
Silicon Valley: it’s not fair!
•
EasyJet: ich bin ein barnstormer
•
WPP: a Sorrell state
•
Xerox: Re-fuji status
•
Tencent: peaking duck
•
Bookmakers: machine learning
•
US sports betting: grow your own dopes
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet : ich bin ein barnstormer
EasyJet: ich bin ein barnstormer
 
FT.com
May 15, 2018 Tuesday 1:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 327 words
Body
Oil up, airline share prices down. Energy is a major cost for carriers. It should be that simple. It is not. Crude is more 
than $70 per barrel, and jet fuel prices have jumped by a half over the past year. European airlines’ shares are also 
up and have kept up with broader regional indices.
One of the best performers is easyJet. With labour issues behind it and newish chief executive Johan Lundgren 
front and centre, the low-cost carrier has taken advantage of rivals’ woes. It should not get too comfortable. Shares 
look pricey.
First-half results were well received. Profits were as the market had expected. A healthy 10 per cent increase in 
revenues per seat coincided with good cost control. The collapse of Monarch airlines late last year, as well as 
Ryanair’s forced flight cancellations, made by far the biggest contribution to improved sales per seat.
EasyJet also raised its full-year forecast for profits before tax to at least £530m. That is almost a third higher than 
analysts had expected. The shares jumped 3 per cent.
That puts them at cruising altitude. At 16 times forward earnings, including upgrades to guidance, easyJet is not far 
from its five-year peak. This year it has the highest valuation of its European peers. Fuel hedging aside, cost control 
is no better than at Ryanair. Labour productivity is persistently lower at easyJet, says Bernstein. And capacity is 
rising, likely up 13 per cent year on year by September. 
Yes, most of that is due to its purchase of slots at Berlin’s Tegel airport, following the demise of Air Berlin last year. 
But easyJet remains one of the top contributors to the growth of seats in European short haul, after Ryanair and 
Lufthansa. 
EasyJet : ich bin ein barnstormer
Mr Lundgren’s big plan is to build up easyJet’s holiday business. That comes as no shock, given his background in 
the travel business. Ancillary revenues may increase accordingly. It will not turn many heads in the City. Expect 
easyJet shares to depressurise later this summer.
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet numbers cheer budget airlines’ shares in UK and Europe
EasyJet numbers cheer budget airlines’ shares in UK and Europe
 
FT.com
May 15, 2018 Tuesday 3:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 727 words
Byline: FT reporters
Body
Shares in EasyJet rose more than 3 per cent after the budget airline reduced its losses with a 19 per cent rise in 
revenue for its recent half-year period.
The budget airline’s revenue surpassed £2bn for the first time for the six-month period at the end of March, while it 
issued a full-year profit estimate before tax in a range between £530m and £580m. Analysts at Liberum said this 
represented “a material uplift” to consensus forecasts. 
But Gerald Khoo, analyst at the broker, added: “In our view, this is already at least partially priced in. We believe the 
market is focusing excessively on short-term earnings momentum rather than fundamentals.”
Nonetheless, EasyJet’s numbers lifted the mood toward the wider sector. Its fellow low-cost airline Ryanair also 
advanced by more than 2 per cent at one stage before paring gains while Tui, the travel operator that owns German 
rival Tui fly Deutschland, rose 1 per cent.
Vodafone was the biggest single faller among London’s top tier shares, down by more than 4 per cent after news of 
the departure of its chief executive, Vittorio Colao, and the publication of its full-year results. 
The announcement comes only days after the company sealed an €18bn takeover of Liberty Global’s German and 
eastern European cable companies. It precedes the merger of its struggling Indian business with Idea Cellular, a 
deal that is expected to close in June.
The 56-year-old Italian will be replaced by Vodafone’s current chief financial officer, Nick Read, who is 53. 
EasyJet numbers cheer budget airlines’ shares in UK and Europe
Vodafone also reported its full-year results, including forecast-beating earnings before interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation of €15bn — up 12 per cent from the same period a year ago. 
Richard Hunter, head of markets at Interactive Investor, pointed to “pockets of caution” within Vodafone’s results 
and said Mr Colao’s departure “had an unsettling effect in early trade”. But he concluded that, “given Vodafone’s 
cash-generative abilities, the attraction of the dividend and its continuing growth prospects”, the shares justified a 
strong “buy” rating. 
Analysis from UBS said Vodafone shares looked “cheap” on a couple of metrics, including their 6.5 per cent 
dividend yield.
“We think the main drivers for the share price will be visibility over [French competitor] Iliad’s entry into the Italian 
mobile market in summer 2018 and visibility over regulatory clearance for the Liberty Global deal in mid-2019,” said 
analyst Polo Tang. 
Iliad’s stock, meanwhile, had the biggest single fall on the Europe-wide Stoxx 600, down more than 19 per cent 
from the previous session’s close. The tumble came after it replaced its chief executive and reported disappointing 
first-quarter sales at its higher margin broadband business. 
The group is best known for its low-cost mobile offering, and its plans to enter Italian markets have been a major 
talking point across the sector. Thomas Reynaud will move up to the top job from his current post as chief financial 
officer after the departure of current boss Maxime Lombardini in a reshuffle announced late on Monday. 
Land Securities fell 1.7 per cent after it warned that the prospect of Brexit would lead to subdued property markets.
The comments from the UK’s biggest listed property company came as it reported full-year results, which revealed 
a loss of £251m after refinancing costs relating to £1.5bn of bonds. 
Landsec’s measure of “revenue profit” increased 6.3 per cent to £406m and adjusted diluted earnings per share 
rose 9.9 per cent to 53.1p. As a result, the dividend for the period is being raised by 14.7 per cent.
The group also appointed a new chairman, Cressida Hogg, to succeed Dame Alison Carnwath.
European banking stocks were encouraged by news of progress on Commerzbank’s plans to resume dividend 
payments. Germany’s second-biggest bank by assets also reported a narrower than expected fall in first-quarter 
profit, helping it secure top place on the leaderboard in Frankfurt. 
The lender, which is still part-owned by the taxpayer, said it had accrued €0.05 per share after its pledge to resume 
payouts for the 2018 financial year.
First-quarter pre-tax profit fell 12 per cent to €289m, but had been expected to decline as far as €276m. 
Its shares rose 3.9 per cent, against a gain of 0.1 per cent for the wider Xetra Dax 30, while the Stoxx 600 banking 
index ticked up 0.3 per cent. 
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
A selection of the FT’s biggest stories and best reads every Friday
A selection of the FT’s biggest stories and best reads every Friday
 
FT.com
May 11, 2018 Friday 12:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1060 words
Byline: Emma Jacobs
Body
Welcome to the weekend! In London, the sun came out and the city bloomed. In case you were distracted, here’s 
my pick of this week’s FT stories, plus a few others you shouldn’t miss.
If you want to receive Long Story Short by email every Friday, you can  sign up here.
1. ‘Beauty is absolutely the best place to be’
Full disclosure: I’ve always wanted to go to the Beautycon convention — or “festival”, as it seems to have become. 
It’s an insight into another (more youthful) world, filled with beauty YouTubers and Instagrammers whose fame 
would no doubt entirely pass me by. This long read by Anna Nicolaou and Aimee Keane captures the buzz of the 
New York Beautycon bonanza and offers a compelling look at why the beauty market is thriving when bankruptcies 
and store closures have devastated other parts of retail. Despite the optimism, the idea that the sector is “Amazon-
proof” doesn’t convince Joel Bines of AlixPartners consultancy:
I’m not saying that beauty will be the same as toilet paper. But nobody would have thought Nike would be 
selling on Amazon. And [as of 2017] they are.
2. ‘For every passenger, we know every detail’
Big data is hailed as the answer to myriad corporate ailments — and this fascinating story looks at how airlines are 
trying to harvest passenger information to boost loyalty and sell services. They have a lot of data to play with. Did 
you know, for example, that the average transatlantic flight generates about 1,000 gigabytes of data, the equivalent 
of 2,000 hours of CD-quality recording (which raises a few questions about passenger privacy and the 
A selection of the FT’s biggest stories and best reads every Friday
personalisation ick factor)? Low-cost Ryanair is pursuing opportunities to sell targeted extras — Kenny Jacobs, 
chief marketing officer, says:
If a customer is travelling to Alicante with two children, we can offer them a five-seat car for hire.
3. ‘We are doomed in this country’
Donald Trump announced on Tuesday that the US is pulling out of the 2015 accord that put Iran’s nuclear 
programme on hold, defying pleas from European leaders. “If I allowed this deal to stand,” the president said, “there 
soon would be a nuclear arms race in the Middle East.” But what of the mood in Iran? Najmeh Bozorgmehr took to 
the streets of the capital — and says that, in two decades of reporting on the country for the Financial Times, she 
cannot recall such high levels of anxiety and disappointment with the government in Tehran. Sheida, a young 
woman who works in a beauty salon, says:
It is not only me [who is] completely hopeless. All my customers are down and depressed.
4. ‘We don’t like cash’
When I started paying with contactless cards I found it unnerving, feeling vulnerable to unscrupulous retailers 
inflating my shopping bill. That unease swiftly disappeared; I now feel over-exerted if I have to key in my pin. Patrick 
Jenkins, the FT’s financial editor, travels to Sweden where only 19 per cent of payments are in cash (the European 
average is about 80 per cent). His lively feature looks at a future without cash, and whether we can survive IT 
glitches, cyber security and even cyber warfare. Referring to the “30-year sweetspot . . . after the cold war”, Cecilia 
Skingsley, Sweden’s deputy central bank governor, says enigmatically:
We relaxed a bit. Now we need to think about how we handle different situations.
5. Memo from Bezos: tell a good story
Jeff Bezos has made the news again (Amazon has been mentioned twice in this email alone). This time it was not 
because of another vampiric move by his online behemoth but because of memos: meetings at Amazon start in 
complete silence as participants digest a six-page briefing. John Gapper, an FT columnist, writes of Bezos’ 
surprising faith in narrative rather than the data on which his business relies. His appreciation of a good story is one 
thing he shares with Winston Churchill. Just before the Blitz, the UK’s second world war leader wrote to civil 
servants on the topic of memos: 
To do our work, we all have to read a mass of papers. Nearly all of them are far too long. The discipline of 
setting out the real points concisely will prove an aid to clearer thinking.
Quick hits
A few of the week’s other FT highlights
•
Anyway, back to me . . . Based on painful experience, Work & Careers this year launched a fortnightly 
Work Tribes column about the people you might meet as you go about your business. This week: the 
conference-goer (“just two comments, an observation and a question, Madam Chair”) and the incurable 
career-changer.
•
Wall Street should suppress its delight at Eric Schneiderman’s fall — it needs a determined cop at this 
risky point in the economic cycle.
•
Mahathir Mohamad won an unexpected victory in Malaysia’s general election, the first transfer of power in 
the country’s post-independence history. Some Malyasians (and investors) see the 92-year-old as weighed 
down by baggage from his previous strongman rule.
•
The Trump administration delivers a trade ultimatum to Beijing — in effect, writes Martin Wolf, declaring a 
trade war with China.
•
The UK’s new “universal credit” is meant to simplify the benefits system but its critics warn that it increases 
the risk of domestic abuse for thousands of women.
A selection of the FT’s biggest stories and best reads every Friday
Best of the rest
•
I’m not black, I’m Kanye — The Atlantic. Ta-Nehisi Coates’ essay on the rapper is a masterclass in 
blending the personal with the political.
•
How Ryan Murphy became the most powerful man in TV — The New Yorker. Having just finished watching 
The Assassination of Gianni Versace (and as a massive fan of Emily Nussbaum’s writing), I had to include 
this profile of the showrunner. 
•
‘It’s the same old Sh*t Town’: Tyler Goodson explains how S-Town changed his life — Esquire. A moving 
tale of life after appearing in a true-life podcast on love and loss, a year and almost 80m downloads later.
Before you go
My video pick The internet lit up after Childish Gambino (aka actor-comedian-producer-polymath Donald Glover) 
released a video last weekend to accompany his new song, “This is America”. It’s worth reading the reflective 
Twitter thread on the video’s themes from Jim Crow to gun violence to pop culture by  Justin Simien, creator of the 
Netflix series, Dear White People: “This is a love letter” (although be sure to read to the end to catch the correction).
We love to hear your thoughts and feedback — so do email us at . And have a lovely weekend.
Emma JacobsWork & Careers writer
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
China buys up flying schools as pilot demand rises
China buys up flying schools as pilot demand rises
 
FT.com
May 10, 2018 Thursday 9:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1291 words
Byline: Jamie Smyth in Melbourne and Ben Bland in Hong Kong
Body
Chinese airlines are buying foreign flying schools and poaching pilots, amplifying a talent shortage that has affected 
airlines in other regions.
“The growth in Chinese aviation is unprecedented in our lifetimes and probably in history,” said Paul Jebely, a 
Hong-Kong-based lawyer specialising in aviation. “There have been more aircraft ordered than there are pilots to fly 
them. ”
The squeeze on flying talent has triggered flight cancellations, dented profits and threatened the industry’s 
ambitious growth targets around the world. 
Emirates is the latest major airline to feel the impact of a war for aviation talent with the Middle Eastern carrier 
cancelling flights and grounding aircraft this month due to a shortage of about 125 pilots. 
“We’re a tad short of pilots,” Tim Clark, Emirates chief executive, said last month in a moment of understatement, 
adding that Chinese carriers were offering extremely competitive packages to pilots to move to Shanghai or Beijing. 
In September Ryanair axed 20,000 flights due to a rostering mess-up made worse by pilot shortages. This forced 
the low-cost carrier to reverse a longstanding policy and recognise trade unions and agree new pay deals — a 
move that it said would cost it €100m ($120m) a year from 2019. 
Experts say the pilot shortage has been prompted by surging demand for air travel fuelled by the rise of low cost 
carriers in recent decades. 
China buys up flying schools as pilot demand rises
Some say this has gone hand-in-hand with a lowering in the status and pay of pilots, in comparison to other 
industries, and the rising cost of flight training in western nations, which is putting off new recruits.
China is on course to overtake the US as the world’s largest air travel market by 2022, according to the 
International Air Transport Association. 
US aircraft maker Boeing predicts China will need 110,000 new pilots in the years through to 2035, and its airlines 
are expected to purchase 7,000 commercial aircraft over the next two decades.
China’s aviation market grew by 13 per cent last year, with 549m passengers taking to the skies, double the 
number who flew in 2010. Growth is being driven by the rising middle class, an expansion of routes by Chinese 
airlines and the easing of visa restrictions by foreign governments keen to attract Chinese tourists. 
The number of pilots and co-pilots working in China almost doubled between 2011 and 2017. Over recent months 
China’s main airlines — China Eastern, Air China, China Southern and Hainan Airlines — have stepped up 
recruitment and are expanding their offshore training. 
“Chinese airlines have raised pay dramatically,” said Dave Ross, the president of Wasinc International, which helps 
Chinese airlines find foreign pilots. Mr Ross said pilots coming from Central or Latin America, and some places in 
Europe could quadruple their compensation in China. 
The starting salary offered to foreign pilots in China has jumped over the past 10 years from $10,000 per month to 
$26,000 per month, tax free, and was still rising, he said.
“Some Chinese airlines are offering tax-free salary packages, which can be up to twice what western airlines offer,” 
said Murray Butt, president of the Australian and International Pilots Association.
India’s surging air travel — where passenger numbers have been growing by an average of  about 16 per cent a 
year since the beginning of the millennium — adds more pressure to the global pilot shortage. 
Having seen rapid growth in passenger numbers over the past few years, Indian airlines have been recruiting from 
the military, from abroad and from their competitors by offering increasingly lucrative contracts. They have also 
made it more difficult for pilots to leave, forcing commanding officers to give a year’s notice if they wish to leave. 
“Airlines have been poaching each other’s pilots, and this move was meant to stop some of that,” said one pilot, 
referring to the one-year notice period. “But as far as the pilots are concerned, it is outrageous.”
Chinese airlines pay the tuition of cadet pilots and are intensifying efforts to develop more local talent. But there are 
only 22 pilot schools in China and restrictions on the use of domestic airspace mean they are increasingly looking 
overseas to partner with foreign flights schools.
Almost half of China’s 5,053 trainee pilots last year were trained abroad, creating a flourishing business for flight 
schools and their owners in the US, Canada and Australia. 
“Chinese companies have been on a buying spree of foreign flight schools from Australia to the US and the 
Philippines to Canada,” said Mr Jebely. “There are many very happy flight school owners who have cashed out, 
with some significant premiums paid.”
The gleaming new offices and recently purchased Cessna aircraft at CAE Oxford’s flight school at Moorabbin 
airport in Melbourne highlights how Chinese cash is transforming the flight school industry in Australia. 
“About half our students are Chinese students at the moment — it means we can invest in aircraft and facilities that 
you see here,” said Mike Drinkall, general manager of CAE Oxford, which operates more than 50 pilot schools 
globally.
China buys up flying schools as pilot demand rises
China Eastern bought half of CAE’s Australian subsidiary in 2014. It is training 150 pilots at the centre this year and 
plans to double that number following a $50m investment in facilities, now under construction.
The influx of Chinese trainees into Australian flight schools has coincided with a 25 per cent drop in the number of 
local trainees receiving commercial pilots’ licences — prompting concern among the country’s airlines.
“There is a shortage of pilots everywhere. We are lucky because we are at the top of the food chain,” said Alan 
Joyce, Qantas chief executive. “But what we are worried about is that we are taking pilots from the military and 
general aviation, and we can’t keep doing that or the ecosystem won’t survive.”
Qantas says it will open the biggest flight school in Australia next year and train up to 500 pilots a year. The school 
will train Australians but also foreign candidates — including Chinese — as the airline seeks to capitalise on the 
fastest growing aviation market in the world.
“Given our brand name this could be a good business in its own right,” said Mr Joyce.
Additional reporting by Nicolle Liu in Hong Kong and Kiran Stacey in New Delhi
Life as a Chinese pilot cadet in Melbourne: fresh air, sunshine and English lessons
Bo Song is one of the army of 2,500 trainee pilots sent overseas every year by Chinese airlines to meet rocketing 
demand for pilots.
The 22-year-old from China’s Shandong province is studying at CAE Oxford’s Melbourne flight school, which is 
home to 150 China Eastern cadets. 
“You know in China we need more and more pilots but we don’t have enough airspace or flight schools. So we 
need to come here,” he said.
Mr Song is training for a commercial pilot’s licence issued by the Australia’s Civil Aviation Safety Authority. He will 
spend 20 months in Australia and fly about 200-250 hours, as well as taking English lessons.
“English is really important. We have to communicate with our instructors and communicate with the tower,” he 
said.
Some of the students undertake extra high-performance training when they have completed their commercial 
licence. If successful, the cadets will graduate and join China Eastern — one of the country’s biggest carriers. 
“I think every pilot wants to be captain. Maybe when I finish my training I will fly the big jets. That would be 
amazing,” said Mr Song.
Asked the difference between his hometown in China and Melbourne, he replied: “Life here is very comfortable. In 
fact the biggest difference is the weather and the atmosphere. In China the air is polluted, whereas in Melbourne 
the beautiful weather and fresh air is amazing.”
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Wizz Air obtains UK licences in response to Brexit
Wizz Air obtains UK licences in response to Brexit
 
FT.com
May 3, 2018 Thursday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 403 words
Byline: Josh Spero
Body
Wizz Air, the Hungarian low-cost airline, has obtained licences for its UK subsidiary in part to ensure it can keep 
operating in the UK after Brexit.
József Váradi, chief executive, said: “Brexit may give legal uncertainties so we need to plan legal 
contingencies . . . It’s safer to have a UK airline to make sure we preserve the rights we have been enjoying.”
Wizz Air UK, which has its headquarters at Luton airport, began operations on Thursday with a flight to Bucharest, 
Romania.
The move is in the opposite direction to UK-based easyJet, which announced it was setting up a subsidiary in 
Vienna last July so it could continue intra-EU flights post-Brexit.
Mr Váradi added he was confident such a need would not arise: “In our view Brexit is going to be a well-managed 
process in the end . . . It’s in the interest of all parties.”
London-listed Wizz Air is central and eastern Europe’s largest airline, with more than 600 routes and 29.6m 
passengers in 2017-18, and is now the eighth largest airline group operating in the UK. 
Mr Varadi expects most of the company’s growth to come from central and eastern Europe. 
Alex Paterson, an analyst at Investec, said central and eastern Europe represented a “huge opportunity” for the 
airline over the next five to 10 years, based on growth from current low levels of penetration. 
Wizz Air obtains UK licences in response to Brexit
Kathryn Leonard of Numis said she was bullish “based on the structural growth of the market they’re in and their 
relatively high market share both in terms of low-cost carriers and central and eastern Europe-based airlines”. 
One threat she said Wizz needed to consider was Ryanair, which was active in the market.
Mr Váradi described Wizz as an heir to Ryanair, saying his airline was “the new kid on the block trying to refine the 
model and get better outputs”.
Wizz, which now rents its aircraft, has made a significant bet on growth, with orders for 273 planes before 2026.
In the event of a downturn, Mr Váradi said, the aeroplanes could be converted or delayed. If there was a deep 
industry-wide slump, he said, “whoever is the lowest-cost provider will have the least pain”.
In its third-quarter results, revenue increased year-on-year by almost a quarter to €422.9m and earnings before 
interest, tax, amortisation, depreciation and rent or restructuring by 17 per cent to €104.2m. Profit grew 3.6 per cent 
to €14m.
The company’s share price was up 1.2 per cent at midday in London at £32.64.
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian Air receives ‘several inquiries’ from suitors
Norwegian Air receives ‘several inquiries’ from suitors
 
FT.com
April 26, 2018 Thursday 11:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 451 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic Correspondent
Body
Norwegian Air said it had received “several inquiries” from unnamed suitors only days after the owner of British 
Airways announced the possibility of a bid for the low-cost airline. 
Shares in Norwegian rose 15 per cent on Thursday morning after the pioneer of low-cost long-haul air travel said it 
had set up a steering committee of its board and appointed banking and legal advisers to deal with any 
approaches. 
News that International Airlines Group, the owner of BA, Iberia, and Aer Lingus, had bought a 4.6 per cent stake in 
Norwegian in the hope of starting discussions with the low-cost carrier “including the possibility of a full offer” had 
already led to a jump of more than 50 per cent in its share price. 
“We are happy to have IAG as an investor. Needless to say, they are not the only interested party that has 
approached us,” Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian’s chief executive and joint biggest shareholder, said on Thursday. 
Norwegian has been under financial pressure due to rapid expansion plans, particularly in long-haul with flights to 
the US, Asia and Argentina. 
The airline, whose current market capitalisation is about NKr13bn ($1.7bn), reversed course on its strategy up till 
now and said it would divest up to 140 planes through sales, leasebacks and replacement of older aircraft. 
Analysts, worried by what they saw as a stressed balance sheet, had urged it to take action as the company is rare 
in the industry in owning most of the 151 planes in its fleet. 
Norwegian Air receives ‘several inquiries’ from suitors
Norwegian’s operating loss widened from NKr1.6bn a year earlier to NKr2.2bn in the first quarter, as the airline 
boosted its capacity and suffered from markedly higher fuel costs. 
Mr Kjos would not be drawn on the names of potential suitors but told Reuters they were “serious players” including 
rival airlines. 
Ryanair has often been named as a possible buyer of Norwegian. The Irish low-cost airline’s chief executive 
Michael O’Leary claimed in September that Norwegian was running out of cash and would not survive the winter. 
As well as selling off planes, Norwegian has also put its frequent-flyer programme up for sale and raised NKr450m 
from a private placement in the first quarter. 
IAG has said little since announcing its stake in Norwegian earlier this month but analysts think it is most interested 
in the long-haul operations, which have a big base at London Gatwick.
IAG, through a new airline called Level, Lufthansa and Air France have all responded to Norwegian’s commercial 
success by setting up their own low-cost long-haul operations. 
Mr Kjos, who owns 27 per cent of Norwegian together with his chairman, reiterated that he did not want to sell his 
shares but would do so if the board strongly recommended an offer.
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Frequent flyer should come down to earth
Frequent flyer should come down to earth
 
FT.com
April 20, 2018 Friday 8:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 75 words
Body
Forget conventional air travel; your writer Nick Remsen (Life & Arts, April 14/15) is surely on another planet if he 
thinks readers can afford to copy his “frequent flyer’s ultimate checklist”. 
The total cost of his suggestions is £13,046! Does he live in the real world? Currently, Ryanair offers flights from 
London Stansted to Bremen for £4.99. Mr Remsen could make 2,614 of those journeys for the price of his self-
pampering.
Leaf Kalfayan
London N7, UK
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Correction: Airlines chart
Correction: Airlines chart
 
FT.com
April 15, 2018 Sunday 10:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 26 words
Body
A chart on the world’s largest listed airlines failed to include Ryanair, which is the fourth biggest with a market value 
of $23.4bn, in an article on April 13.
Load-Date: April 15, 2018
End of Document
IAG takes Norwegian route to low-cost long-haul travel
IAG takes Norwegian route to low-cost long-haul travel
 
FT.com
April 12, 2018 Thursday 6:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 800 words
Byline: Peter Campbell in London
Body
In the battle for the skies over the Atlantic, International Airlines Group is eyeing another co-pilot.
The owner of British Airways has taken a 4.61 per cent stake in Norwegian Air Shuttle, the low-cost airline whose 
launch of ultra-cheap US flightsfrom Europe has led to a scramble among established players to mimic offerings or 
risk losing passengers. It said it would “initiate discussions with Norwegian, including the possibility of a full offer for 
Norwegian”.
IAG, which also owns Vueling, Aer Lingus and Iberia, brings with it financial muscle to help patch Norwegian’s 
wounds, which include deep losses anda NKr22.3bn ($2.9bn) debt mountain. 
But its investment, or even a full takeover, does not solve the Scandinavian carrier’s most fundamental problem — 
how to make moneyflying passengers across the Atlantic for under £70.
“Unless you have the right business model, deeper pockets only help you fund losses for longer,” says Jonathan 
Wober, analyst at CAPA Centre for Aviation.
IAG has timed its approach as its quarry looks to raise badly needed finances to help it nurse increasing levels of 
red ink. Norwegian booked a NKr299m loss last year, against a profit of NKr1.14bn a year earlier — its third year of 
losses in the last four. Michael O’Leary, chief executive of rival Ryanair, even went as far as to predict last 
September that Norwegian would run out of cash in “four to five months”.
IAG takes Norwegian route to low-cost long-haul travel
The move also comes at a time of consolidation among European airlines, driven by a brace of corporate failures as 
years of discounting drives the need for scale to thrive. EasyJet, which recently bought collapsed airline Air Berlin’s 
operations at Tegel Airport, is vying with Lufthansa to buy out Alitalia, which the Italian government is seeking to 
keep running.
In its brief statement on Thursday, IAG offered little insight into the rationale for its move, leaving analysts and 
industry insiders to speculate over the myriad reasons it may want to invest in another low-cost carrier.
BA, which missed out on the low-cost short-haul bonanza in Europe by selling its cut-price Go brand to EasyJet, is 
keen to avoid a similar mis-step when it comes to the lucrative long-distance market.
IAG has launched Level, a Spain-based low-cost service offering hand luggage-only flights to the US, but the 
fledgling operation remains a long way behind Norwegian in its share of the budget market. 
“Growing that to scale organically is very, very difficult,” says Daniel Röska, an analyst at Bernstein. 
IAG may also bring a degree of business restraint to Norwegian, whose years of rapid growth have seen it plan 
ventures as varied as domestic flights in Argentina and leasing aircraft to other carriers — on top of operating its 
existing European short-haul network while pioneering long-haul budget travel.
Mr Wober at CAPA says: “They have been fighting battles on many fronts for too long.”
The move may also give Norwegian the chance to offload some of the 200 new aircraft it ordered in 2012 to other 
IAG brands, Mr Röska at Bernstein suggests.
Norwegian’s strategy of avoiding larger airports and flying “point to point” from cities such as Edinburgh or Dublin 
avoids the costs of the “hub and spoke” model offered by larger players, but leaves potential customers the 
headache of reaching those second-tier airports.
IAG’s network of short-haul flights would offer additional travel options, regardless of whether the businesses fully 
merge.
At the same time, Norwegian has built a formidable presence at Gatwick, rivalling BA’s position at the UK’s second-
biggest airport.
Mr Röska wrote in a note on Thursday: “A partnership that looks to maximise the synergies of the two networks, 
minimise duplications of capacity and investment on key routes, and use IAG’s travel management capabilities to 
improve Norwegian’s expertise in this area, could all provide some of the benefits of consolidation without the likely 
high cost of a deal.” 
He said he believed IAG would be gambling if it bought the airline outright because it had no proof that synergies 
would work and the business could be run profitably.
But the risk in creating synergies now is it drives up the value of the business — making it even more expensive if 
IAG does want a full takeover.
Ultimately, the move brings Norwegian funding at a time when it was looking to raise more capital by selling some 
aircraft and putting its frequent flyer scheme up for sale.
Stephen Furlong at Davy says: “Norwegian has been doing in low-cost long-haul what Ryanair did in low-cost short-
haul. The difference is that Ryanair did it with conservative financial leverage.
“Norwegian needed a partner with muscle. Perhaps this is it.”
This article has been amendedsince original publication to include Ryanair in the chart on the world’s biggest listed 
airlines
IAG takes Norwegian route to low-cost long-haul travel
Load-Date: April 15, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian /IAG: pioneering for the fjords
Norwegian/IAG: pioneering for the fjords
 
FT.com
April 12, 2018 Thursday 5:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 352 words
Body
International Airlines Group has good strategic reasons for wanting to buy Norwegian Air, the latest pioneer of low-
cost, long-haul air travel. The chance to irritate Ryanair merely adds spice. Michael O’Leary, whose rehab from 
motormouth appears a work in progress, said last year he expected Norwegian to go under. Proving him wrong 
might amuse Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG.
Cynics will suspect keeping a handle on transatlantic competition would be the main motive for IAG. The group’s 
largest airline, British Airways, fought ferociously in its time with Virgin Atlantic and Laker Airways.
The latter, a forerunner of Norwegian, went bust in 1982. Bears think the fast-growing newbie has been flirting with 
the same fate. Net debt of NKr22.3bn ($3bn) at the last record date was 13 times forecast earnings before interest, 
tax, depreciation and amortisation. The horde of short sellers targeting Norwegian have had their pips squeezed by 
the 47 per cent leap in the shares on Thursday.
At this market worth of $1.3bn, the fiords flyer has an enterprise value of $4.3bn. If IAG was to bid successfully at 
this price, the takeout would be at some 19 times 2018 ebitda, according to broker Davy’s data. That looks steep, 
given IAG paid 17 times for Aer Lingus in 2015 after lengthy haggles. The multiple should contract to just 9 times 
using a 2019 forecast.
That is a very guessy guesstimate, given the unreliability of Norwegian’s earnings. Founder Bjorn Kos, who owns 
15 or 20 per cent depending on which database you believe, flies the business by the seat of his pants. Norwegian 
made a NKr300m net loss last year. A recent rights issue was too small to buffer against any big new reversals.
Norwegian /IAG: pioneering for the fjords
Buying a 4.6 per cent stake without prior warning is a funny way for IAG to make friends. But Norwegian needs 
hefty financial support as much as BA needs to protect its cheerless cross-pond service. Norwegian, blue in mood 
like Monty Python’s parrot, might otherwise become an ex-airline.
Sign up to Lex’s new midweek newsletter from writers in London, New York, San Francisco and Hong Kong at  
ft.com/newsletters. 
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
IAG weighs takeover offer for Norwegian Air Shuttle
IAG weighs takeover offer for Norwegian Air Shuttle
 
FT.com
April 12, 2018 Thursday 1:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 597 words
Byline: Richard Milne in Oslo and Mark Odell in London
Body
British Airways owner International Airlines Group is eyeing a takeover offer for Norwegian Air Shuttle after 
snapping up a 4.6 per cent stake in the low-cost carrier that has disrupted Europe’s airline industry by launching 
cheap long-haul flights. 
IAG said on Thursday that it had bought the stake to start discussions with Norwegian “including the possibility of a 
full offer” for the airline, whose shares initially jumped as much as 47 per cent.
It said no discussions had yet taken place and cautioned that it was not certain to make a takeover offer. 
IAG has taken advantage of recent weakness in Norwegian’s shares to make its move. The low-cost airline has 
faced increasing questions about its finances as its rapid growth has put pressure on costs. It continues to lose 
money despite the rest of the industry being in good shape. 
 Norwegian said there had been no talks and that it only found out about IAG’s purchase from the media.
“Norwegian believes that interest from one of the largest international aviation groups demonstrates the 
sustainability and potential of our business model and global growth,” it said. 
IAG was created out of the merger of BA and Spain’s Iberia in 2010 as part of a consolidation drive in the European 
airline industry and subsequently the parent bought Ireland’s Aer Lingus in 2015.
IAG weighs takeover offer for Norwegian Air Shuttle
Norwegian has itself expanded massively in recent years, first becoming the number three in European low-cost 
airlines behind Ryanair and easyJet before starting long-haul flights to the US and Asia. 
Although low-cost carriers have enjoyed huge success — since Southwest Airlines of the US pioneered the 
approach in the 1970s — in disrupting short-haul markets and making money in the process, the nature of the long-
haul market, where costs among the legacy airlines are already low, has made it much harder to crack.
But some analysts believe Norwegian is getting there and said IAG would be particularly interested in its long-haul 
operations. Norwegian’s biggest long-haul base is at London Gatwick in BA’s backyard and the UK flag carrier, as 
well as rivals Lufthansa and Air France-KLM, are trying to respond with their own lower-cost offerings. 
“It will be a challenge for carriers like BA to build a low-cost long-haul operation due to a lot of legacy costs. The fit 
is extremely good between IAG and Norwegian,” said Kenneth Sivertsen, analyst at Pareto Securities in Oslo. 
Shares in Norwegian were up 37 per cent at NKr245 in mid-afternoon trading in Oslo, giving the airline a market 
capitalisation of NKr9.5bn ($1.2bn). They are at the same level they were at in March 2017 and well below their 
recent peak in 2016 of NKr370. 
IAG shares were down less than 1 per cent in London. 
Shares in other airlines jumped as expectations of another round of consolidation in Europe’s fragmented airline 
industry took hold. SAS rose 8 per cent, while Finnair was up 4 per cent.
Norwegian raised NKr1.3bn through a private placement last month while signalling it would sell off aircraft and 
possibly its frequent-flyer programme in an effort to shore up its balance sheet. It has more than 200 aircraft on 
order, many bought at low prices in 2012. 
Norwegian’s co-founders, Bjorn Kjos and Bjorn Kise, who are chief executive and chairman respectively, increased 
their joint stake to 27 per cent last year. The 71-year-old Mr Kjos has “always tried to build a carrier that could last 
after him”, Mr Sivertsen said. 
IAG has launched its own low-cost service called Level, flying from Barcelona and Paris to destinations including 
Los Angeles, Boston and Montreal.
Load-Date: April 13, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa : well grounded
Lufthansa: well grounded
 
FT.com
April 10, 2018 Tuesday 3:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 418 words
Body
The notion of a 28-hour working week and hefty pay rises sounds outlandish in Germany, land of punctilious 
productivity. But unions are serious about demanding a bigger share of the country’s economic spoils. VW has 
already made a deal. Lufthansa, Germany’s largest airline, is the latest to feel the effect of disputes. 
The strike by airport ground workers is directed at the public sector, not Lufthansa. But there is no point flying an 
aircraft if passengers cannot get off with their bags.
A one-day strike is not a real threat when Lufthansa is still flying high on its best ever set of full-year results. But if 
the “warning” stoppage turns into longer discord, it will be. Labour battles have dragged on performance in the past. 
A pilot strike in 2014 resulted in a profit warning and sharp share price fall. 
Back then, the airline was in the midst of a restructuring drive to cut €1.5bn in costs and faced intense competition 
from local carriers. The fruits of those savings plus the recent collapse of rivals Monarch, Air Berlin and Alitalia puts 
it in a different position now. Operating profit rose 70 per cent to a record high of almost €3bn in 2017 — double that 
of rival Air France-KLM. A chunky purchase of about half of Air Berlin has increased revenue, passenger numbers 
and capacity. Adjusted operating margins are just over 8 per cent. 
Past troubles still hamper valuations. Despite last year’s outperformance, Lufthansa is still valued at a discount to 
peers. At the same multiple, shares would be 7 per cent higher than now. 
That does not mean 2018 will be a breeze. If discontent worsens, the airline will face pressure on labour costs and 
its pension deficit. Fuel prices have increased by about a quarter in the past year, meaning margins are under 
Lufthansa : well grounded
pressure across the industry. And while Lufthansa cashed in on Air Berlin’s woes, so did easyJet and Ryanair. Both 
have kick-started German operations. 
That leaves Lufthansa in an awkward position. It expects fuel prices to rise by €700m this year and has said cost 
cuts will “largely” offset the rise, but not quite. Competition means it cannot raise prices to make up the difference. 
That suggests earnings before the usual adjustments will be flat this year. The airline’s increased dominance of 
German airspace will not become clear until this pressure eases. Expect next year to be better. 
Lex recommends the FT’s Due Diligence newsletter, a curated briefing on the world of mergers and acquisitions. 
Sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
Brussels plans more legal power for consumers
Brussels plans more legal power for consumers
 
FT.com
April 8, 2018 Sunday 10:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 628 words
Byline: Jim Brunsden in Brussels
Body
Consumers hit by scandals such as emissions-test cheating by carmakers would get greater powers collectively to 
sue companies that violate their rights, under EU plans that reflect Brussels’ frustration with corporate-rule breaking.
The European Commission will on Wednesday propose giving consumer groups the right to seek compensation on 
behalf of large numbers of customers, opening up legal avenues that are limited or non-existent in many EU 
countries.
Brussels will also seek to increase the financial penalties for companies that break EU consumer law, saying 
national authorities should be able to levy fines of up to 4 per cent of turnover for “widespread infringements”. 
Countries would be free to legislate for higher maximum penalties if they wished. 
Vera Jourova, the EU’s justice commissioner, said that the plans, which need approval from national governments 
and the European Parliament, would be “a moment for everyone to show their cards whether we are serious in 
drawing the consequences from dieselgate and give a fair chance for compensation to consumers”. 
Ms Jourova fought Volkswagen, the company at the centre of the dieselgate scandal, over its refusal to 
compensate EU customers despite doing so in the US. The episode, along with others such as Ryanair’s mass 
cancellations of flights in 2017, have hardened Brussels’ view that the EU lacks the legal armoury to tackle cases 
affecting large numbers of people in multiple countries.
Brussels plans more legal power for consumers
Jean-Claude Juncker, commission president, last year pledged a “new deal for consumers” that would give them 
better protection. 
“It cannot be cheap to cheat, especially in the globalised world where the big companies have a huge advantage 
over individual consumers,” Ms Jourova said. “We need to level these odds.”
Citizens rights’ groups have long called for greater collective redress powers, saying EU consumer law is under-
enforced. Only Belgium, Italy, Portugal, Spain and Sweden have well-developed and functioning procedures, 
according to the BEUC,  the European consumer organisation. The German government has pledged in its coalition 
agreement to introduce a new system.
“On paper European consumers have rights, but getting them respected when things go wrong is too frequently 
mission impossible,” Monique Goyens, the BEUC’s director-general, said. 
However business leaders said Brussels risked leading the EU towards a US-style class-action system that would 
encourage frivolous lawsuits in search of payouts. Concern has also been expressed that Brussels was overstating 
the problems consumers faced in upholding their rights. 
“EU citizens already enjoy the most efficient and strongest consumer protection in the world,” Markus Beyrer, 
director-general of BusinessEurope, said. 
Ms Jourova said her plans contained safeguards that would protect businesses from spurious cases — notably the 
fact that collective actions would only be open to consumer organisations and other non-profit groups.
“We are not following the US model, but we will make sure EU citizens can fully benefit from their rights,” she said. 
“It’s not about more business, but about more fairness.”
Wednesday’s package will also tackle other consumer issues, notably some companies’ use of lower-quality 
ingredients in food sold in central and eastern Europe, even when they were branded identically to products 
marketed in the west. Officials said rules would clarify that it was illegal to market different products as being 
identical. 
Other changes are aimed specifically at the online market, including making it easier for a person to know whether 
they are buying from an individual or from a business, as well as giving people clearer information about the terms 
and conditions of social media networks and cloud storage platforms.
Load-Date: April 9, 2018
End of Document
How to avoid the crowds on holiday
How to avoid the crowds on holiday
 
FT.com
April 5, 2018 Thursday 2:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1118 words
Byline: Tom Robbins
Body
Are you planning on taking a break and “getting away from it all” this summer? Increasingly, some of the most 
enduring holiday destinations are overcrowded, reducing the quality of your downtime, while pushing up the price. 
Here we take four popular holiday destinations — Venice, Reykjavik, Prague and The Serengeti — and present four 
lesser-known alternatives, enabling you to avoid the crowds and make the most of your time off. 
Don’t go to Venice — try Treviso
Few cities have such history, such a setting — or such a misleading nickname as Venice. These days, the 55,000 
residents of La Serinissima are deluged by almost 3m tourists per year and the city has been in the vanguard of 
protests about “over tourism”. 
Bypass its standing room-only piazzas and instead explore Treviso which, despite being just 20 minutes away by 
train and having its own airport, remains blissfully overlooked by mass tourism. 
The diminutive walled city has canals, a 12th century cathedral, an array of fashion boutiques — it is the home of 
Bennetton — as well as numerous cobbled squares in which to sip your spritz al bitter (which, unlike in Venice, will 
arrive with free nibbles). 
Work up an appetite with a stroll along the Buranelli canal, then head for lunch at  Le Beccherie, a fixture in the 
town for almost 80 years, though it has changed ownership and premises, and was apparently where tiramisu was 
How to avoid the crowds on holiday
invented. Make time too for a visit to             Toni del Spin, a classic Italian trattoria with wood-panelled walls and 
red-checked tablecloths that is a firm favourite with locals. 
This is Prosecco country, so rent a car and drive through the vineyards along La Strada del Prosecco in the hills 
just to the north, stopping at small producers en route. You could still strike out to Venice by train of course, or, 
better still, sail there: rent a motorboat at Casale (just outside Treviso) then sail down the pretty Sile river into the 
Lagoon. Explore the minor islands, then head to San Marco to marvel at the architecture (and the crowds). 
For general information see  comune.treviso.it and             italia.it. Both Ryanair and Wizz Air fly direct to Treviso 
from numerous European cities. For boat rental at Casale, see             leboat.co.uk; instruction is given and the 
boats have cabins so you can moor for the night at numerous spots around Venice and the Lagoon.
Don’t go to Reykjavik — try Akureyri
Helped by its role in television’s Game of Thrones, its dramatic volcanic scenery and the musical success of Sigur 
Rós and Bjork, Iceland is witnessing an unprecedented tourism boom. Visitors numbers have soared from 489,000 
in 2010 to 2.2m last year. 
Such a sudden rise has prompted consternation, particularly as almost all those tourists are concentrated in 
Iceland’s capital, Reykjavik, and the surrounding “golden triangle” area. 
Bypass that and fly instead to Akureryi, on the shores of Iceland’s longest fiord, in the far north. The country’s 
second city (though it has fewer than 20,000 residents), Akureryi has much to offer. There’s a pretty downtown 
area, several museums, some lively bars (it’s a university town), a celebrated modernist church and a geothermal 
outdoor pool. 
It’s also an ideal base for exploring Iceland’s wild north — hiking or horseriding in the mountains of the Troll 
peninsula, whale watching, or driving through the bizarre landscapes of Myvatn, stopping to wander past bubbling 
mud pools and steaming fumaroles. In winter, there’s the country’s best ski area, and in summer, the chance to play 
the world’s most northerly 18-hole golf courses. 
Akureyri is a 45-minute flight from Reykjavik on Air Iceland Connect (  airicelandconnect.com), and there are direct 
charter flights from several UK regional airports with Superbreak (             superbreak.com). For general visitor 
information see             visitakureyri.is and             northiceland.is
Don’t go to the Serengeti — try western Tanzania
The great wildebeest migration through Tanzania’s Serengeti National Park is one of the world’s most awe-inspiring 
natural spectacles, but as well as attracting big cats and other predators, it now draws hundreds of thousands of 
tourists. 
In-the-know safari enthusiasts are instead turning to the country’s far west — accepting the long (and expensive) 
journey to get there in return for a complete absence of lion-chasing minibuses. 
Covering 4,471 square km, Katavi National Park is Tanzania’s third-largest, and has large populations of lions, 
buffaloes, elephants, hippos and more, yet it receives only 1,500 foreign visitors each year. There are just four 
permanent camps, the largest with fewer than a dozen rooms, all offering a real sense of remote adventure. 
Close by, Mahale Mountains National Park gets even fewer visitors but is home to around 1,000 chimpanzees, 
including one group that have been habituated by researchers and so can often be watched at close-quarters in 
their natural forest habitat. The park is also home to Greystoke Mahale, a supremely elegant six-room lodge on a 
white sand beach on Lake Tanganyika. 
Katavi and Mahale Mountains are a four to five hours flight by light aircraft from Dar es Salaam or Arusha (see  
flysal.com or             zantasair.com); tour operators include Expert Africa (             expertafrica.com) and Natural 
High Safaris (             naturalhighsafaris.com).
How to avoid the crowds on holiday
Don’t go to Prague — try Brno
A popular destination for stag and hen parties, the Czech Republic’s capital may not be your idea of a relaxing 
weekend away. 
Instead look east to Brno which, after enduring Nazi occupation, communism and the break-up of Czechoslovakia, 
has blossomed, drawing significant inward investment and becoming a hub for high-tech industries and research.
In tourism terms, however, the historic capital of Moravia has remained decidedly in the shadow of Prague and 
Vienna. 
A city break here offers a blend of art, architecture, history — and food and wine that is noticeably good value. Key 
sites include the Gothic church of St James, the cathedral of Saint Peter and Paul, which sits on Petrov hill and 
whose soaring 84m-high spires are a city landmark, the medieval castles of Spilberk and Ververi and the 13th 
century Old Town Hall. 
Altogether different is Villa Tugendhat, built between 1928 and 1930 by Mies van der Rohe (before he moved to the 
US to escape the Nazis) and now regarded as one of Europe’s most important examples of early Modernism. 
Afterwards, explore the little known wines of Moravia at Petit Cru (  petit-cru.cz), or head for cocktails at the award-
winning Super Panda Circus.
There are direct flights to Brno from London with Ryanair, and from Munich with BMI. For further details, see  
czechtourism.com and             gotobrno.cz.
Tom Robbins is the travel editor for FT Weekend; ; Twitter:  @TRtravels
Load-Date: April 7, 2018
End of Document
Deadline looms for UK gender pay gap declarations
Deadline looms for UK gender pay gap declarations
 
FT.com
April 4, 2018 Wednesday 8:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 163 words
Byline: Henry Mance 
Body
UK companies with more than 250 employees have until the end of Wednesday to declare their gender pay gap, 
with declarations so far putting the median differential at 18 per cent. 
Ahead of the deadline, Theresa May, prime minister, called for more action to “close the gap for good within a 
generation.” 
She wrote in the Daily Telegraph that although 18 per cent was a “historic low”, “progress in shrinking it remains far 
too slow.” The Conservative party, which has fewer than 250 employees, will publish its own figures on 
Wednesday. 
On Tuesday Ryanair revealed it had a gender pay gap of 67 per cent, which it blamed on men mainly filling pilot 
roles while women are employed as lower-paid cabin staff. Only eight of the airline’s 554 pilots are women. 
At least 8,330 of the approximately 9,000 bodies required to report their gender pay figures have now done so. 
Employers who don’t meet the deadline will be written to by the Equality and Human Rights Commission next week.
Load-Date: April 4, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair reaches pact to launch service to Ukraine
Ryanair reaches pact to launch service to Ukraine
 
FT.com
March 23, 2018 Friday 11:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 271 words
Byline: Roman Olearchyk
Body
Ireland’s low-cost airline Ryanair announced on Friday that it had reached an agreement to expand to Ukraine this 
autumn. 
Beginning in October, Ryanair will offer 15 new routes between European cities and Boryspil airport in Kiev, the 
capital, as well as Lviv, the largest city in the country’s western regions.
The agreement follows a collapse in talks last July in which Ryanair accusedUkrainian airport authorities of 
choosing “to protect high fare” domestic airlines and “deprive Ukrainian consumers/visitors access to Europe’s 
lowest air fares and widest route network.”
In a statement issued during Friday’s signing ceremony in Kiev, Ryanair’s CEO Michael O’Leary said:
Ryanair is pleased to announce that low fares have officially arrived in Ukraine, our 36th country of 
operation . . . which will help deliver 800,000 annual customers at these two Ukraine airports.
“Ryanair’s entry to Ukraine is the most important event for the national airspace over the past 20 years,” added 
Ukraine’s infrastructure minister Volodymyr Omelyan.
Attending the signing ceremony at Boryspil airport, Petro Poroshenko, Ukraine’s president, mentioned discussions 
with Ryanair on establishing Ukraine-based service and IT centres, as well as launching domestic flights. 
Ryanair reaches pact to launch service to Ukraine
Ryanair’s Ukraine expansion come’s nearly a year after the country’s citizens obtained visa-free travel rights to EU 
countries, and as some 1.5m Ukrainian migrant labourers have landed employment in neighbouring Poland.
New routes will connect Ukrainians with five Polish cities, as well as London Stansted, Barcelona, Bratislava, 
Stockholm, Vilnius, Düsseldorf and Memmingen.
Load-Date: March 23, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian Air to raise NKr1.3bn to bolster finances
Norwegian Air to raise NKr1.3bn to bolster finances
 
FT.com
March 20, 2018 Tuesday 6:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 332 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic Correspondent
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle is raising fresh capital, selling off some aircraft and putting its frequent flyer scheme up for 
sale as the fast-growing low-cost airline tries to shore up its finances. 
Norwegian also announced deepening estimated losses for the first quarter despite rapidly increasing revenues. 
The low-cost carrier, which has targeted the long-haul market with flights from Europe to the US, Asia and 
Argentina, will raise NKr1.3bn ($165m) through a private placement, it  announced on Tuesday.
It will sell five Airbus 320neo aircraft that will lead to an estimated gain of $15m-$20m, while it has started a 
strategic review of its Reward programme that will look at “its incorporation and possibly ownership”. A subsidiary 
has also signed a sale-and-leaseback deal for six aircraft that will boost its liquidity by $250m. 
Norwegian is coming to the end of a dizzying period of growth during which it has challenged low-cost rivals such 
as Ryanair and forced flag carriers to launch their own budget offerings.
But investors are increasingly worried about growing losses and its stretched balance sheet, with its shares 
languishing at a five-year low. 
Norwegian said its pre-tax loss for the first quarter was expected to be NKr2.6bn compared with a NKr1.8bn loss a 
year earlier. Revenues increased almost a third to NKr7.1bn. 
Norwegian Air to raise NKr1.3bn to bolster finances
The airline said: “Additional capital will boost competitiveness and protect existing and future investments in a 
market characterised by higher oil prices and fluctuating currencies. The company is now positioning itself for the 
final stages of a strong growth period that has lasted for several years and will reach its peak by the second quarter 
of 2018.” 
The pace of its expansion has caused an increase in costs and Norwegian said that both fuel prices and exchange 
rates were worse than it had previously estimated. Jet fuel was 12 per cent higher in the first quarter and the euro 8 
per cent stronger than expected. 
Norwegian currently has 150 aircraft.
Load-Date: May 30, 2018
End of Document
My wife should have braved our Ryanair flight in her fur
My wife should have braved our Ryanair flight in her fur
 
FT.com
March 16, 2018 Friday 7:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 75 words
Body
Sir, Further to Charlie Porter’s interesting and thoughtful article on fur (“Are you fur real?”, Life & Arts, March 10): 
we bought a marvellous fur coat for my wife many years ago at a bargain price as a result of the anti-fur campaign. 
On a trip to Milan one February she refused to take it on the grounds that we were flying Ryanair. Taking the metro 
in Milan, she was the only woman in the carriage not wearing a fur coat!
Ian Maitland
London SW1, UK
Load-Date: March 17, 2018
End of Document
Virgin Atlantic makes first loss in 4 years
Virgin Atlantic makes first loss in 4 years
 
FT.com
March 15, 2018 Thursday 1:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 575 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
Virgin Atlantic has made its first loss in four years after the UK airline founded by Sir Richard Branson was hit by 
problems with the Rolls-Royce engines that power its Boeing 787 Dreamliners and a weak pound that hurt UK 
demand. 
The group on Thursday reported a £28.4m loss before tax and exceptional items for 2017, compared with a £23m 
profit a year ago. 
The UK carrier, which is 49 per cent owned by US carrier Delta Air Lines, has had a tough year after all of its 
Boeing 787 Dreamliners, which make up a third of its fleet, were affected by faults with the Rolls-Royce Trent 1000 
engine.
The problems have caused disruption and costs for  Virgin Atlantic that has been forced to ground up to four of its 
aircraft at a time for repairs, as well as leasing additional planes. 
Craig Kreeger, chief executive of Virgin Atlantic, said the airline had to deal with a trio of big external issues last 
year. 
A weak sterling relative to the dollar, which impacted demand from UK travellers flying to the US, problems with the 
Trent 1000 engines as well as Hurricane disruption in the Caribbean and the US. 
The group declined to say whether it expected to make another loss in 2018, saying only that the environment 
remained “challenging”. 
Virgin Atlantic makes first loss in 4 years
Virgin Atlantic confirmed on Thursday it had leased three additional Airbus A330-200 to make sure it continued to 
provide a reliable service amid a shortage in the supply of the Trent 1000 engines. 
Tom Mackay, chief financial officer at Virgin Atlantic, said it was in private discussions with Rolls-Royce regarding 
compensation and would not comment on how much the engine problems had cost the airline to date. 
Last week, Rolls-Royce revealed that repairing problems with turbine and compressor blades on the Trent 1000 
engine, and the Trent 900 engine that powers the A380 superjumbo, incurred a cash cost of £170m for the UK 
engineering group in 2017. This was expected to increase to about £340m this year. The problems were expected 
to be fully resolved by 2021-22, it said. 
Virgin Atlantic is hoping that the launch of its first hand-baggage only ticket will help attract more customers this 
year as it looks to fight back against the rise of low-cost competitors, such as Norwegian Air Shuttle, offering cheap 
flights across the Atlantic.
While the weak pound helped the airline see a 20 per cent rise in US-based customers, overall passenger numbers 
flying with Virgin Atlantic fell by 100,000 from 5.4m in 2016 to 5.3m last year. 
Traditional transatlantic carriers are under increasing pressure from low-cost airlines such as Norwegian and 
WestJet, which have disrupted the market for long-haul travel in the same way that Ryanair and easyJet have done 
for short-haul in Europe.
The revamp of its economy seat offering comes at an important time for Virgin Atlantic. 
Once a trailblazing carrier, the UK airline has struggled over the past decade. 
The group’s fortunes were rescued by its joint venture with Delta Air Lines, which took a 49 per cent stake in the 
company in 2012, and helped Virgin Atlantic return to profit in 2014.
In a further shake up in July, Virgin Atlantic announced that Air France-KLM was buying a 31 per cent stake in the 
airline as part of a plan to create “the most comprehensive transatlantic route network” in the world. 
This would see Sir Richard’s 51 per cent stake in the airline fall to 20 per cent. Mr Kreeger on Thursday said it 
expected the deal to go through by spring 2019. 
Load-Date: March 16, 2018
End of Document
The Boldness in Business awards: a look back at previous stories of success
The Boldness in Business awards: a look back at previous stories of 
success
 
FT.com
March 15, 2018 Thursday 11:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1385 words
Body
Person of the Year
2009
 Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan chief executive, ‘King of the Street’
2010
As chief executive, Alan Mulally steered Ford Motor from a $12.7bn loss in 2006, when he took over, to a $6.6bn 
profit in 2010. Since he retired in 2014 Ford has struggled to find a replacement to match him.
2011
Michael Woodford, named president in 2011 of Japanese camera maker Olympus, was sacked for questioning 
earlier deals of about Y130bn ($1.7bn). Some former executives were convicted for involvement in fraud; he sued 
Olympus for a sizeable sum and has since focused on charity work.
2012
Miner and trader Glencore’s chief executive Ivan Glasenberg struck 2012’s deal of the year when he bought mining 
group Xstrata for $76bn. Low raw materials prices took their toll but global growth has meant they, and Glencore, 
have surged.
The Boldness in Business awards: a look back at previous stories of success
2013
Moya Greene, Royal Mail chief executive, she took the UK’s 500-year-old postal service into the private sector, 
something that had eluded UK governments for decades. Despite some hard times, she and the Royal Mail remain 
in situ.
2014
Travis Kalanick, who founded Uber in 2009, saw the ride-hailing app rise in value to more than $40bn. After a spate 
of scandals, legal obstacles and angry words with drivers, he resigned as chief executive in 2017.
2015
Andy Jassy, Amazon Web Services innovator
2016
Helena Morrissey, asset manager and campaigner against business ‘group think’
2017
James Dyson. Read the story
Lifetime achievement
2008
 Warren Buffett, investor and chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway, ‘Sage of Omaha’
Drivers of Change
2008
Against a skyline of last year’s messed-up schedules, dissident staff and thin-on-the-ground pilots,  Ryanair our first 
winner in 2008, still drives change — it recently agreed the first trade union deal in its history.
2009
While  Fiat Chrysler’s 2017 profit doubled to €3.5bn, chief executive Sergio Marchionne says carmakers must 
combine to spread the costs of future technology. Strong sales, meanwhile, of such brands as Ram, Jeep and 
Maserati are expected to continue.
2010
 Apple, iPad launcher
2011
 Amazon, retail transformer
2012
Mondragon, Basque workers’ co-operative
2013
The Boldness in Business awards: a look back at previous stories of success
Almost all China’s 750m web users have smartphones. Payments via QR codes led by platforms such as internet 
group  Alibaba’s Alipay, are making cash obsolete. Old banks are worried: Alibaba’s Ant Financial is already as big 
as the US’s ninth-largest.
2014
 HBO, ‘golden age’ US television channel
2015
 Fanuc, Japanese robot-maker
2016
DeepMind Technologies, artificial intelligence systems
2017
Reliance Industries. Read the story
Technology
2012
 3D Systems, printing equipment supplier
2013
Bosch, the private German group best known for making car parts, reported healthy 2017 revenues as it expands 
into the internet of things and industry 4.0 applications. “We recognised the potential of connectivity early on,” notes 
chief executive Volkmar Denner.
2014
Open Garden, smartphone networking app
2015
With  Tencent, the $500bn gaming and social media group, China’s tech revolution continues. Its WeChat 
messaging app has about 1bn monthly users. The share price has doubled in the past year.
2016
Preferred Networks, Japanese artificial intelligence start-up
2017
23andMe. Read the story
Corporate Responsibility/Environment
2011
Helveta, green software maker
2012
The Boldness in Business awards: a look back at previous stories of success
Since being founded in 2000, India’s Narayana Hrudayalaya (now Narayana Health) has built itself into a multi-
speciality hospital chain. It also pioneered micro health insurance, with many treatments provided below cost or 
free.
2013
 Skanska, green Swedish building contractor
2014
Sweden’s  Handelsbanken put the boring back into banking and survived the 2008 crisis with excellent customer-
branch manager relations and limited flashy products. A rare whiff of excitement saw the chairman questioned last 
year over possible bribes related to elk-hunting outings.
2015
Toyota, carmaker gambling on hydrogen
2016
Dong Energy, once a coal-intensive utility, installed its 1,000th sea wind turbine in 2016 — the first company to 
reach that total — and announced its withdrawal from oil and gas. It has renamed itself Orsted after the Dane who 
discovered electromagnetism.
2017
Lemon Tree Hotels. Read the story
Corporate Responsibility
2008
Selco, solar power for India’s poor
2009
 Standard Chartered, charitable projects in emerging markets
2010
 Marks and Spencer, sustainable retail
Environment
2008
Masdar, Abu Dhabi’s ‘green city’
2009
Rapid, subsidy-fuelled expansion of China’s solar industry drove down the cost of solar panels, causing chaos 
among manufacturers.  Suntech, the first private Chinese company to list on the New York Stock Exchange, went 
bankrupt in 2013.
2010
Jain Irrigation Systems, more food for less water in rural India
The Boldness in Business awards: a look back at previous stories of success
Entrepreneurship
2008
 Google, the ‘wisdom of crowds’ in action
2009
Founded in Ireland, based in London, oil and gas exploration group  Tullow Oil suffered when crude prices crashed 
in 2014. Its return to exploration in Peru’s mostly untapped offshore basin and raised output in Ghana show its 
renewed confidence.
2010
Free, French internet and telecoms force
2011
 Hyflux, Singaporean water treatment company
2012
Japan’s  SoftBank hopes soon to float its domestic telecoms business, from which it could raise $18bn. It has had 
its eye on a share of Swiss Re, while other recent ventures into diversity include stakes in Uber and US dog walking 
service, Wag.
2013 
Pesa, Polish train and tram maker
2014
Mobileye, Israeli self-drive vehicle tech specialist, now hitched to Intel
2015
WeWork, office space for the gig economy
2016
Dollar Shave Club, online men’s razor market leader
2017
Wheelys Café. Read the story
Newcomer
2009
Founded in 2006,  Twitter had 60m users by 2009. An estimated 1.3bn accounts have been created. It recently 
reported its first ever profit, with net income of $91m in last year’s fourth quarter. In these Trumpian times, about 80 
per cent of world leaders are said to use the service.
2010
The Boldness in Business awards: a look back at previous stories of success
 Groupon, the Chicago online marketplace company, internationally thrived by offering emailed discounts to 
subscribers on anything from pizza to dry cleaning. Copycat sites plagued its advance, though it reports that it still 
operates in 15 countries.
2011
 Muddy Waters Research, researcher for investors in China
Smaller Company
2012
Californian company GoPro’s founder, a surfer, marketed a small, durable, waterproof camera that captured the 
thrill of riding the waves.  GoPro went public (and market capitalisation neared $12bn) but, thanks to imitators, lost 
its poise and is now worth $800m.
2013
 TransferWise, established in 2011 in London by two young Estonians, transfers money at lower fees and better 
exchange rates than conventional banks. A flourishing “unicorn”, it rates today as one of Europe’s few start-ups 
valued at more than $1bn.
2014
Yorkshire-based Xeros is reinventing the washing machine, using less water than conventional devices and tiny 
polymer beads to beat dirt from clothing. After focusing on the industrial market, it unveiled a domestic machine at 
2018’s Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
2015
 Farfetch, boutique clothing online retail platform
2016
Oxbotica, UK robotics developer
2017
EthioChicken. Read the story
Developing Markets
2008
Founded by a former engineer in China’s People’s Liberation Army,  Huawei dominates global telecoms equipment 
sales. Washington concerns about Chinese snooping saw the company’s effort to sell handsets in the US through 
domestic telecoms carrier AT&T blocked in January.
2009
 Vale, multinational Brazilian metal merchant
2010
Taiwan’s  MediaTek, the world’s second-biggest mobile phone chipmaker after the US’s Qualcomm, says its 
revenue may fall 20 per cent this quarter because of sluggish smartphone sales in China. It sees global growth only 
in the sub-$400 handset market.
The Boldness in Business awards: a look back at previous stories of success
2011
 Samsung, South Korean tech trendspotter
2012
Mahindra & Mahindra of India overtook John Deere of Illinois in 2012 to become the world’s largest tractor maker by 
volume. Most Indians know the brand for its sleeker SUVs that race through the streets of cities such as Mumbai 
(its headquarters) and New Delhi.
2013
Sindicato Antioqueño, Colombian business group, based in Medellín
2014
Mara, Dubai property, manufacturing and agriculture company
2015
M-Kopa, Kenyan solar-powered goods supplier
2016
Empresas Polar, Venezuelan purveyor of drinks and staple foods 
2017
CATL. Read the story
Load-Date: March 14, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair reiterates risk of Brexit flight cancellations
Ryanair reiterates risk of Brexit flight cancellations
 
FT.com
March 7, 2018 Wednesday 11:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 229 words
Byline: Katie Martin in London
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has once again warned that time is running out to find a deal between the UK and EU that 
will keep commercial planes flying across the region after Brexit.
The airline has repeatedly raised this issue over recent months, saying last August that flights to popular summer 
holiday destinations are at risk.
On Wednesday, its chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said in a statement:
We remain concerned at the uncertainty which surrounds the terms of the UK’s departure from the EU in March 
’19.While we continue to campaign for the UK to remain in the EU Open Skies agreement, we caution that 
should the UK leave, there may not be sufficient time, or goodwill on both sides, to negotiate a timely 
replacement bilateral which could result in a disruption of flights between the UK and Europe for a period of 
time from April ’19 onwards, and/or the cancellation of flights and routes, and the movement of our based 
aircraft to Continental Europe.
Earlier this week, the FT reported thatthe UK is facing a worse air services deal with the US after Brexit than the 
one it currently enjoys, with formal talks cut short due to the awkward issue of the foreign shareholdings of British 
carriers.
The CEO of British Airways owner IAG quickly responded by dismissing these concerns as “nonsense”. He added 
that “I wouldn’t believe anything that’s written in the FT.”
Ryanair reiterates risk of Brexit flight cancellations
Load-Date: March 7, 2018
End of Document
Brexit’s Open Skies dilemma divides airlines
Brexit’s Open Skies dilemma divides airlines
 
FT.com
March 7, 2018 Wednesday 7:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1230 words
Byline: Mehreen Khan in Brussels
Body
Brexit’s impact on the airline industry is of more than just a business interest. Of the innumerable consequences of 
a “no deal” Brexit, the prospect of grounded planes and mass airport disruption rank as some of the most 
apocalyptic.
But with just 12 months until the UK’s planned EU exit date, the airline sector’s response and preparedness isn’t as 
uniform as you might expect.
Five bosses from Europe’s biggest airlines gathered for a debate in Brussels on Tuesday, and when quizzed about 
what Brexit meant for their industry, came up with at least three different answers.
One of the most vexed issues for many British-based airlines is their ownership structure. Under EU rules, carriers 
in Europe have to be effectively controlled by European nationals, with at least 50 per cent of shares held by the 
bloc’s citizens.
These foreign ownership requirements are a standard feature of most international and bilateral aviation deals and 
will also apply to British airlines running routes to the US when the UK falls out of the EU-US Open Skies 
agreement. Earlier this week, the FT reported the White House was gearing up to give the Brits a worse deal than 
they’ve enjoyed inside the EU.
Brexit’s Open Skies dilemma divides airlines
IAG — owner of British Airways and Aer Lingus — is among the biggest carriers facing a possible crunch under the 
ownership rules. Its current shareholder structure means it could struggle to hit the 50.1 per cent ownership 
threshold to allow it to keep flying in Europe when UK nationals become third-country nationals.
But speaking at an event hosted by an airline lobby group on Tuesday, IAG boss Willie Walsh (pic below) was 
having none of it and even took a dig at the FT for reporting  “fake” news.
“I am completely relaxed” he said, insisting the UK government’s determination to strike a deal with the EU and US 
would mean no flight disruption and no shareholder problems for IAG. “There will be a comprehensive Open Skies 
agreement. Anybody who doesn’t believe that is living in cloud-cuckoo land”.
Mr Walsh’s fellow CEOs weren’t as sanguine. Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, whose current 
ownership structure would also see it classified as a non-EU controlled airline after Brexit, is predicting “a real crisis” 
in April 2019. “There will be disruption, partly because it is in the interests of the Germans and the French to push 
the ownership agenda”.
What do the Germans think? Carsten Spohr, boss of Lufthansa, made a pointedly political intervention. Flight 
disruption, he said, was one of the ways the airline industry could show the Brits the full consequences of the Leave 
vote and “that might be a good thing”.
“It’s only when you get to that stage [disruption], where you’re going to persuade the average British voter they were 
lied to in the entire Brexit debate”, added Mr O’Leary.
On the ownership headache, when pressed on how IAG was planning to convince regulators British Airways was 
both UK and EU controlled after Brexit, Mr Walsh retorted: “magic”.
Chart du jour: Five Star plots a route to power
The anti-establishment movement — which emerged as the biggest party in the Italian parliament — is weighing up 
an alliance with the centre-left as its first option to form a government. The FT’s James Politi reports a M5S official 
saying: “Alliances are tough for Five Star but probably Five Star plus the centre-left would be less traumatic than 
Five Star plus the League”.
Is the centre-left up for it?  Matteo Renzi, outgoing head of the Democratic Party, isn’t enthused. He hit out the 
movement for being “anti-European” mudslingers on Tuesday night. For Brussels, an M5S-centre-left alliance would 
be better than a nightmare populists-alliance with the League. At best, the EU will be hoping that partnering with a 
“traditional” if declining force like the PD will have a moderating effect on Luigi Di Maio and his disparate band of 
anti-elite campaigners. Meanwhile Matteo Salvini, head of the League, tried to reassure the EU they had nothing to 
fear from his anti-immigrant, Eurosceptic party (             Ansa):
“Should Europe be afraid? No, if anything, Italians have been afraid of Europe in the past years, and we will go 
to Europe to change rules which have impoverished the Italians”.
Europe sweep
Another Brexit day
The EU will be releasing its latest guidelines for Brexit negotiations later Wednesday morning (around 1100 CET). 
Donald Tusk will be presenting the framework for trade talks and hosting a press conference in Luxembourg later 
on Wednesday. Expect the guidelines to be short, sparse and to deal a blow to hopes the City of London can enjoy 
wide access to the single market. On Tuesday in Brussels, Arlene Foster — the straight-talking leader of Northern 
Ireland’s Democratic Unionists — was equally blunt. She told Michel Barnier the commission’s fallback Irish border 
plan was “utterly unacceptable” and “economically catastrophic”.
A moment of clarity
Brexit’s Open Skies dilemma divides airlines
 Andrew Duff calls on EU negotiators to use Wednesday’s trade framework to push for the clarity they need from 
London ahead of a showdown March summit: “There are only weeks left to find the key to that new neighbourly 
regime of enduring partnership.”
#TeamWeidmann
Who wants Jens Weidmann to become the next president of the ECB? The FT’s Claire Jones and Guy Chazan 
report his own government is hesitant about backing his candidacy for fear it might come at too high a price.
Trump and the history of protection
The EU has prepared a list of US goods worth €2.8bn it will slap import restrictions on in response to Donald 
Trump’s steel tariffs.  Bloomberg has the list which includes Levi’s jeans, cranberries, and peanut butter. Alan 
Beattie explains the logic behind trade protectionism and why Mr Trump’s measures have no winners (not even 
him):
“History suggests there can be tactically sensible uses of discretionary trade defence instruments. Mr Trump’s 
proposed tariffs are not among them.”
The Dutch boom
Brexit will hurt but for now the good times are rolling for the Dutch economy. Growth is expected to reach an 
impressive 3.2 per cent this year according to the country’s stats office — outstripping 2017,  reports FD. For now, 
the stats office is forecasting an orderly Brexit, but one that will still hit the Netherlands to the tune of €8bn in its 
€800bn economy.
‘A coalition of the unwilling’
On Tuesday the FT brought you news of the eight small hawkish eurozone capitals that are talking tough on the 
eurozone. You can read their  joint finance ministers’ paper here.             Dutch newspaper Volkskrant dub it a case 
of “the Netherlands and the seven dwarfs going up against Macron”.
Selmayr needs scrutiny
The FT’s view:
The commission and the wider EU should examine whether concentrating such power in one person through 
bureaucratic backroom dealing is healthy. The speed and secrecy of the appointment — with commissioners 
kept in the dark until the last moment — do not suggest an open process. No doubt Mr Selmayr’s formidable 
reputation for helping allies and punishing enemies will have helped disarm any remaining opposition.
Coming up on Wednesday
The European Commission will release country-by-country reports on member states’ budget plans this morning as 
well as a separate package on how to boost Europe’s fintech sector using pan-EU licenses. Also to come is a report 
calling out member states for policies that help multinational companies dodge tax.
Email: 
Twitter: @mehreenkhn
Load-Date: March 7, 2018
End of Document
Virgin revamps Atlantic economy travel
Virgin revamps Atlantic economy travel
 
FT.com
March 7, 2018 Wednesday 7:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 488 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
Virgin Atlantic is fighting back against the rise of low-cost competitors with its first hand-baggage only ticket for 
those wanting a cheap flight across the Atlantic. 
The UK carrier, founded by Sir Richard Branson, on Wednesday announced plans to launch three new economy 
fares as it looks to defend its position in the market from long-haul budget rivals such as Norwegian Air Shuttle. 
Traditional transatlantic carriers are under increasing pressure from low-cost airlines such as Norwegian and 
WestJet, which have disrupted the market for long-haul travel in the same way that Ryanair and easyJet have done 
for short-haul in Europe. 
Craig Kreeger, chief executive of  Virgin Atlantic, said its economy revamp will give it the capability to offer a very 
low fare that will be “intensely competitive”.
“We don’t feel we need to create a new airline, we feel we can offer a great Virgin experience at a price people 
wouldn’t necessarily expect,” he said. 
Norwegian, in particular, has become a force in the European airline industry over the past few years, bringing 
down the cost of long-haul flying and forcing rivals to respond with their own budget services. 
Last year, International Airlines Group, which owns British Airways, launched Level, a low-cost transatlantic brand 
in response to this competition. Last week, the group also announced that, from April, it will introduce a basic hand 
baggage-only fare for transatlantic flights on BA and Iberia, its Spanish airline brand. 
Virgin revamps Atlantic economy travel
On Wednesday, Virgin Atlantic outlined plans to compete on similar ground, offering three new economy price tiers: 
“economy delight”, “economy classic” and “economy light”. 
Its most expensive economy ticket, economy delight, will give travellers a more spacious seat with 34 inch legroom, 
priority check in and boarding as well as advanced seat assignment. Its cheapest ticket, economy light, will see 
seats assigned at check in and no checked luggage. Seats will be packed closer together with 31 inch legroom. All 
flyers will continue to get inclusive food and drink and in-flight entertainment. 
John Strickland, an aviation consultant, said airlines have learnt lessons from the complacency initially shown in the 
early days of the rise of low-cost short-haul carriers. 
“Long-haul carriers are making sure they protect themselves and make life challenging for Norwegian to gain 
additional traction by competing more on price,” he added. 
The move comes at an important time for Virgin Atlantic. Once a trailblazing carrier, the UK airline has struggled 
over the past decade. The group’s fortunes were rescued by its joint venture with Delta Air Lines, the US carrier, 
which took a 49 per cent stake in the company in 2012. 
In a further shake up in July, Virgin Atlantic announced that Air France-KLM was buying a 31 per cent stakein the 
airline as part of a plan to create “the most comprehensive transatlantic route network” in the world. 
Load-Date: March 8, 2018
End of Document
Klarna’s profits driven by growth in Nordics and Germany
Klarna’s profits driven by growth in Nordics and Germany
 
FT.com
February 28, 2018 Wednesday 3:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 402 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic Correspondent
Body
Klarna, one of Europe’s most highly valued fintech companies, reported a big jump in profits and sales last year as 
the online payments group had strong growth in the Nordics and Germany. 
The Swedish group  posted a 27 per cent increase in revenues to SKr4.53bn ($546m) while net profit more than 
tripled to SKr346m. Klarna processed about €18bn in online transactions last year, an increase of 42 per cent. 
The group provides payment products for transport and media companies as well as increasingly retailers by giving 
customers the option of paying after they receive their goods as well as taking on the credit risk. 
Valued at $2.25bn in 2015, Klarna last June became the largest European fintech to receive a banking licence with 
its chief executive saying the company wanted to reshape retail banking in the same way that Ryanair had shaken 
up the aviation sector. 
Klarna has a number of high-profile investors including venture capital groups Sequoia Capital and Atomico as well 
as Visa and private equity house Permira. 
The Swedish company has made a big push into the US and UK but progress has been slow in what are highly 
competitive markets. Revenues for countries outside the Nordics, Germany, Austria and Switzerland increased from 
SKr145m in 2016 to SKr186m last year. 
Klarna has partnered with Asos, Topshop and JD Sports in the UK and Microsoft in the US as part of its efforts to 
expand outside its northern European stronghold. 
Klarna’s profits driven by growth in Nordics and Germany
People close to Klarna say that the company saw especially good growth at the end of the year because of Black 
Friday and Christmas but that these do not show up in last year’s results. 
The increase in Klarna’s net profit was flattered by a drop in provisions to do with VAT reclassification in Sweden. In 
2016, the provisions cut SKr166m from net profit while they reduced it by only SKr66m last year. Net profit 
increased about 50 per cent stripping out the effect of the provisions. 
Klarna plans to use its banking licence to offer products such as cards and salary accounts to its 60m customers 
but not mortgages or saving products. 
The vision of Sebastian Siemiatkowski, its chief executive and co-founder, is of a group of fintechs challenging 
banks globally in specific areas such as payments. He told the Financial Times last year: “We are still moving at the 
speed of a fintech, but provide the trust and security of a bank. That makes us a super rare animal.”
Load-Date: March 1, 2018
End of Document
BA owner raises growth plans to meet travel demand
BA owner raises growth plans to meet travel demand
 
FT.com
February 23, 2018 Friday 4:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 552 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
British Airways owner International Airlines Group has become the latest European carrier to ramp up its expansion 
plans this year, as it looks to take advantage of strong travel demand. 
The airline group, which also owns Iberia, Vueling and Aer Lingus, said it would increase capacity by 6.7 per cent 
this year, up from 2.6 per cent in 2017, focusing its growth on the lucrative transatlantic market. 
Its expansion plans come as IAG signalled an upbeat outlook for 2018, with plans to raise both its profit and 
passenger unit revenues — a measure of fares — as well as lowering costs. 
On Friday, the group reported a 19 per cent rise in full-year operating profit before exceptional items to €3.02bn, up 
from €2.5bn a year ago. 
But IAG shares were down 5.7 per cent by late Friday afternoon in London as concerns rose that airlines are 
expanding too quickly at a time when fuel costs are increasing. 
Last week, shares in Air France-KLM also fell after the carrier said it would boost seating by up to 4 per cent this 
year. 
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said he was confident the group would still improve its unit revenue in 2018 in 
spite of an increase in capacity. 
BA owner raises growth plans to meet travel demand
The majority of its growth would be focused on long-haul expansion of its low-cost airline Level, as well as Aer 
Lingus, across the Atlantic. 
“For us, this is all efficient growth because we’re planning for unit revenues to improve through 2018 as well,” said 
Mr Walsh. 
However, some analysts signalled their concern. “IAG’s outlook for a positive unit revenue environment in 2018 
runs counter to our own analysis of the current sector outlook,” said Daniel Roeska, aviation analyst at Bernstein. 
It follows comments made by Ryanair this month, which warned that it didn’t share the optimism of rivals over fare 
rises this year. In January, easyJet talked of reduced competitive pressure on prices following a number of airline 
bankruptcies across Europe. 
IAG said it would also look to grow organically in Austria after its bid to buy insolvent airline Niki was scuppered in 
January by the Austrian airline’s founder, Formula One champion Niki Lauda. 
The airline group’s successful bid for the carrier, which is one of the last assets to be sold out of the Air Berlin 
collapse, was overturned when insolvency proceedings were moved to Austria, forcing a new sale process.
BA will also increase frequencies to key European summer destinations as the group utilises the 20 take-off and 
landing slots it bought from collapsed carrier Monarch Airlines. 
Iata, the global airline association, last year warned that while 2018 was expected to be a good year overall for the 
sector, the biggest challenge to profitability was likely to come from rising fuel prices and higher labour costs. 
IAG said it expected its fuel bill to rise €500m this year to about €5.1bn.
While full-year profits rose, IAG’s quarterly operating profit slipped from €620m to €585m, which the airline group 
blamed on changes in the employee bonus provision. 
Passenger unit revenue growth improved in constant currency terms from the previous quarter, rising from 2.2 per 
cent to 2.4 per cent. Over the year, it increased 1.5 per cent at constant currencies. 
IAG signalled confidence in its outlook with a further €500m share buyback. 
Additional reporting by Cat Rutter Pooley
Load-Date: February 24, 2018
End of Document
Clouds on horizon for Ryanair after union U-turn
Clouds on horizon for Ryanair after union U-turn
 
FT.com
February 10, 2018 Saturday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1337 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
For the past two decades, Ryanair’s voluble chief executive Michael O’Leary has been adamant that hell would 
freeze over or he would supposedly cut off his arms before he agreed to sit down with trade unions. 
But late last year, faced with growing pressure from pilots and threats of strike actionin the run-up to Christmas, 
Europe’s biggest low-cost airline shocked investors with a surprise decision to reverse its longstanding policy and 
recognise unions for the first time in Ryanair’s 32-year history.
It pushed forward with those plans last month, signing its first union deal with Britain’s pilot group Balpa — a 
significant move as the UK accounts for about a quarter of Ryanair’s pilots and aircraft. 
“It’s a critical junction in the airline’s history,” says Daniel Roeska, aviation analyst at Bernstein.
“Its non-union stance was one of the big hallmarks of Ryanair’s ‘why we are very different’ story. 
“The reputational significance here is that it’s not that different any more. Ryanair still has great airline managers, 
it’s still a great business model but . . . it’s becoming more similar to other airlines,” he says.
Its change of course comes after a difficult period for the budget airline. A pilot rostering mess-up in September led 
to Ryanair cancelling more than 20,000 flights, slow its growth plans for winter and next summer and go on a hiring 
spree for more cockpit crew. 
Clouds on horizon for Ryanair after union U-turn
The fiasco dealt a severe blow to the Irish carrier, which has built its reputation over the past two decades as an 
efficient, safe and reliable operator. 
It also sparked a battle with pilots, who were emboldened to push for better terms in the wake of the crisis.
Several analysts think its decision to recognise unions is one of the biggest U-turns in Ryanair’s history, noting that 
its non-union stance has been key in helping the budget carrier build itself into the airline juggernaut it is today with 
its aggressive focus on cutting costs at every opportunity. 
In Europe, alongside its budget rival easyJet, it has upended the airline industry over the past 30 years with a 
single-minded focus on cheap fares, which has seen legacy airlines such as British Airways, Lufthansa and Air 
France-KLM cede as much as 40 per cent of the short-haul market to their budget rivals. 
Keeping labour costs low has been a core part of the Irish airline’s successful business model. Its pilots are a mix of 
full-time employees and independent contractors. Meanwhile, its longstanding refusal to recognise trade unions 
meant it was able to drive productivity harder than legacy flag carriers. 
“If they move to a unionised workforce, I would expect that to lead to normal industry working practices with local 
employment contracts and permanent employment contracts,” says Andrew Lobbenberg, aviation analyst at HSBC.
“A key part of Ryanair’s success has been how flexible the business has been. And part of that has been their 
contractual ability to move people around which has come from their employment structure,” he adds. 
Ryanair has spent the past four months attempting to fix problems with its pilots by offering to increase pay by 20 
per cent, but has only agreed deals with just over half of its 87 bases. 
Some analysts think Ryanair had to change its approach. “They were in a place where their natural established 
behaviour, which is to respond assertively or aggressively to labour or where people are challenging them, was only 
going to make the situation worse,” says Mr Lobbenberg. “It would only serve to accelerate the attrition [of pilots] 
and put them into deeper trouble,” he adds. 
Mr Roeska says its crucial for Ryanair to “safeguard the number of employees they have” in order to keep to their 
flying schedules and their 2024 target of carrying 200m passengers a year, up from 130m this year. 
“That’s why they are so adamant in pushing through the wage rises. Its seldom that an employer is so desperate to 
give people more money. If they don’t, people will leave. Unionisation is also designed to get people to stay and not 
leave as quickly,” he says. 
While concerns exist about what affect unionisation will have on Ryanair’s business, its management team has 
been quick to deny that it will affect its low-cost high-productivity model. 
Last week, the Irish airline said recognising unions and agreeing to new pay deals will cost it €100m a year from 
2019, which includes any future deals reached with cabin crew unions. It also maintained its full-year profit forecast 
of €1.4bn-€1.45bn. 
But while Ryanair has successfully negotiated a deal with the British pilot union, and expects to conclude others 
shortly, it is facing more of a battle with others, including those in Ireland, Germany and Spain. 
However, Ryanair showed it has not lost its combative streak, with Mr O’Leary warning at its third-quarter results 
the airline could be hit with further strikes as it was facing “laughable demands for legacy-type inefficiencies” from 
some unions across Europe. He added: “We are fully prepared to face down any such disruption, if it means 
defending our cost base or our high-productivity model.”
Eddie Wilson, Ryanair’s chief people officer, tells the FT the airline has become more “mature” in terms of its 
approach. “We would have fought to have kept the model that we have because it gives you flexibility but the world 
Clouds on horizon for Ryanair after union U-turn
has moved on,” he says. “The business has changed. You have to adapt to it. If you can’t win something, then you 
just have to change.”
But he reiterated that there would be conflict with unions and pilots if they try to seek anything that would “attack” its 
low-cost, high-productivity model. “If suddenly pilots said they only wanted to fly 400 hours a year like elsewhere 
then, yes there would be conflict,” he says. 
For now, it is likely to take months or even years before the full implication of what union recognition will mean for 
Ryanair’s low-cost business. 
Gerald Khoo, aviation analyst at Liberum, says: “Fundamentally they are still in a strong position, with a very 
competitive cost base, high margins and a very strong balance sheet. It’s not going to be crippled by this. The 
underlying business model is still absolutely viable and successful.”
Bumpy ride ahead
For many investors, the words “union” and “airline” together do not conjure up good images. 
When Ryanair announced in December that it was going to change a long-held policy and accept unions into its 
workforce for the first time in its 32-year history, the stock market’s view was clear. Shares fell more than 8 per cent. 
“The surprise decision late last year to recognise trade unions has unsettled investors. The reversal of yet another 
longstanding and strongly-asserted policy would seem to reduce the differentiation compared with legacy airlines,” 
says Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum. 
But while some analysts do not think it will affect Ryanair’s cost advantage “materially”, much of it will depend on 
how union discussions play out.
It is encountering some bumps in its talks with unions in Ireland, Spain and Germany. Analysts expect full 
recognition of unions, including cabin crew deals, to take between 18-24 months. 
In Ireland, it faces a potential fight with Irish union Forsa/Ialpa, which represents about 35 per cent of the Dublin 
pilots that have not accepted the pay rise. The remainder have already accepted the pay deal.
At its third-quarter results, Ryanair said it was preparing for potential strike action. 
According to Mark Simpson, analyst at Goodbody, the cost of any strike action in Dublin could cost the company 
about €230,000 a day in the current quarter and about €400,000 in the peak summer months. 
“The numbers . . . highlight the fact that the cost of a strike in the current quarter would be marginal within the 
context of the group’s total FY18 year,” says Mr Simpson. 
“Ultimately, whether or not it really changes things, is the question of the relative balance of power. [Michael] 
O’Leary isn’t going to be a pushover,” says Jonathan Wober, an analyst at CAPA Centre for Aviation. 
Load-Date: February 13, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet forges ahead to protect flying rights after Brexit
EasyJet forges ahead to protect flying rights after Brexit
 
FT.com
February 8, 2018 Thursday 6:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 455 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet has pushed forward with plans to protect its flying rights after Brexit following a shareholder vote in favour 
of legal changes that will help ensure the low-cost airline meets EU ownership rules. 
The move makes it the latest carrier to make changes in preparation for Britain’s departure from the EU as fears 
grow that a turbulent exit could cause disruption across the aviation market. 
Airlines are grappling with a range of regulatory puzzles in the wake of Britain’s decision to exit the EU. 
These include agreeing a new legal basis for British airlines to operate flights between EU countries and ownership 
rules requiring carriers operating in the region to be majority controlled by entities in the bloc.
On Thursday, shareholders at easyJet’s annual general meeting approved changes to its articles of association that 
will ensure the airline is EU-owned and controlled after Brexit. 
The move means it has the power to force UK shareholders to divest their shares if the airline needed to. 
John Barton, chairman of  easyJet, noted that “Brexit is one of the biggest issues facing the European airline 
industry”. 
He said that while the airline has no “immediate intention” of using these powers, they were an “important element 
in ensuring that easyJet plc has the ability to maintain EU ownership and control at all times should we need to do 
so”.
EasyJet forges ahead to protect flying rights after Brexit
EasyJet noted that close to 50 per cent of its shares were already held in the hands of European Economic Area 
nationals. 
EasyJet also said it expected the Civil Aviation Authority, Britain’s aviation regulator, to grant it a UK air operator’s 
certificate in the coming weeks to cover its UK-based aircraft. 
It added that the government had confirmed that the airline — easyJet UK — will be treated as a British carrier 
when Britain had left the EU and its parent company is EU-owned. 
The budget airline was one of the first carriers to make moves to protect its flying rights following Britain’s decision 
to leave the EU. 
Last year, it set up an EU-based airline to ensure that it can continue its intra-European flights regardless of Brexit 
talks. 
In recent months, other European carriers have taken similar steps. In October, Wizz Air, central and eastern 
Europe’s largest low-cost carrier, announced it was accelerating contingency planning for Brexit. 
Meanwhile, low-cost airline Ryanair confirmed last month it had applied for a British air operator’s certificate to 
ensure it will be able to continue flying in the country after Brexit.
Britain’s £60bn aviation industry has made it clear its preference for maintaining access to the EU’s Open Skies 
regime, which gives all EU airlines the right to fly between member states and domestically within member states.
Load-Date: February 9, 2018
End of Document
Brexit rollercoaster
Brexit rollercoaster
 
FT.com
February 7, 2018 Wednesday 1:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 950 words
Byline: Martin Sandbu
Body
With less than 14 months to go before leaving the EU, Britain’s government is beginning to put its mind to what 
relationship it would like to put in place of EU membership. Blurring the sightline to the long-term horizon, however, 
are very real threats to any orderly Brexit even in the short run. Both the public debate and the state of UK-EU 
negotiations display an unsettling mix of promising signs of a sensible long-term settlement and reasons to expect 
the process to derail as soon as this year.
On the short-term dangers, the very loud ticking of the clock draws attention to the political distance the UK has to 
cover in just the next month to secure even a transition period. It is the British side that has requested one (in 
Theresa May’s  Florence speech); the EU has now published its             proposed legal text that would grant it.
Under the EU’s proposal, the UK will be bound throughout the transition by all the EU obligations that currently 
apply, including financial contributions and the free movement of people. It will also be barred from acting against 
the EU’s interest — the duty of “sincere co-operation” will remain in force. The EU wants to retain a right to cut the 
UK off summarily from single market benefits if it violates the exit agreement, without having to wait for a court 
decision. It all rather supports arch-Brexiter Jacob Rees-Mogg’s complaint that the  UK will be a vassal state. Given 
that it is the UK asking for it, it is hard to see what else he or anyone else expected. But the obvious subordination 
of the UK will be hard to digest politically, even if the EU has given             a little leeway on the margins. 
At the same time, as the clock keeps ticking, the pragmatic reason to ask for a transition — the need to keep 
conditions stable for businesses until the permanent new relations can be implemented — will just intensify. Two 
straws in the wind: the European Central Bank is warning that UK-based banks wanting a licence to operate in the 
eurozone after Brexit cannot wait much longer to apply, and Ryanair has warned it will insert a  Brexit clause in 
Brexit rollercoaster
tickets for the summer of 2019, allowing cancellation if regulation has not been put in place to allow it to continue 
flights to the EU.
Expect these countervailing pressures to clash in the next weeks and months — and if things go badly, for the 
whole Brexit process to go off the rails.
If it doesn’t, it will have been because the UK bows to reality, and the longer-term outlook is looking brighter. 
Interest is increasing  in the UK parliament in the European Free Trade Association and European Economic Area, 
through which the Efta countries can participate in the EU single market. A parliamentary majority for such an 
outcome is certainly conceivable. But more likely is support for a customs union of some sort with the EU, without 
which Britain’s commitments on Northern Ireland are impossible to fulfil.
Perhaps more pivotal for domestic UK politics will be the effect of customs barriers on British manufacturing. The  
evidence is mounting of how much British industry in EU supply chains would suffer from more border frictions. A 
new study             finds that food processing and textiles, for example, could lose close to one-third of their exports 
without an EU trade deal, even if trade agreements are struck with other trading partners, with several other sectors 
losing double-digit percentages.
There is, in other words, a political prize to be won by the first big political party to tour Britain’s factories and 
promise a Brexit deal that does not threaten their exports. Paradoxically, this would tend to be symbolically 
important in leave-voting places such as Sunderland. But a model that kept the UK in the customs union and single 
market for goods trade only (I have previously outlined how it would look) might be sellable to those constituencies 
as it would also “take back” meaningful policy autonomy in services and immigration. Labour is no doubt best 
placed to commit to such a Brexit model vowing to protect factory jobs, which raises the question of what is taking 
the party so long. If it steals a march on the government, the Conservatives are likely to have to follow, like 
happened with the commitment to a standstill transition. 
Would the EU accept such a proposal? There is much to like: goods supply chains would be unharmed; the Ireland 
problem would be solved; it would encourage the financial industry to move to the EU27; and the UK market would 
remain part of the EU’s offer in future trade deals with others, but without any say in their negotiation. But it would 
be difficult: above all it would end freedom of movement of people, and while not sector-by-sector cherry picking it 
would separate two of the four freedoms of movement (goods and capital) from the other two (services and people).
My best guess is that the EU27 would accept it. But it would be wrongfooted initially by a UK proposal for such a 
relationship. That alone is a reason for the UK, so far humiliated in the negotiations, to contemplate it. 
Other readables
•
Does government over-reach hold the US economy back? Nathan Goldschlag and Alex Tabarrok have 
looked and  found no evidence that different burdens of federal regulation can explain the decline in 
business dynamism across US industries.
•
Free Lunch takes a keen interest in the economic geography of the left-behind. Andrés Rodríguez-Pose 
contributes to that thinking with a  new piece about the revenge of the “places that don’t matter”. 
Numbers news
•
The International Monetary Fund charts  inequalities in health. The difference in life expectancy between 
those with high and low education ranges from four years in Italy to 14 years in Hungary.
Load-Date: February 8, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair says airlines will struggle to raise fares
Ryanair says airlines will struggle to raise fares
 
FT.com
February 5, 2018 Monday 9:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 519 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick
Body
Ryanair has warned that airlines operating out of the UK will struggle to raise fares for the key summer holiday 
season and into 2019, as uncertainty over how Brexit will affect Britons’ travel rights makes them cautious about 
booking holidays abroad.
“We do not share the optimism of competitors and market commentators for summer 2018 fare rises,” Ryanair said 
alongside a quarterly results update.
“The lack of clarity on Brexit continues to overhang fares and pricing on routes to [and] from the UK. We would, 
even at this early date, urge extreme caution on investor and analyst assumptions for fares in FY19 [full year 
2019].”
This followed a buoyant update from rival easyJet last month, which talked of reduced competitive pressure on 
prices following a slew of airline bankruptcies across Europe.
Ryanair’s shares fell 3.2 per cent to €15.60 on Monday morning, even though the budget airline announced a 
€750m share buyback and revealed its revenues and traffic grew despite flight disruption last autumn because of a 
pilot rostering crisis. 
Ryanair’s net profits increased 12 per cent to €106m for the three months to December 31, compared with the 
same period last year. Its revenues gained 4 per cent to €1.4bn and passenger numbers rose 6 per cent to 28.8m. 
Ryanair says airlines will struggle to raise fares
Ryanair’s outspoken chief executive Michael O’Learyhas taken a more negative view of the willingness of British 
customers to travel because the Open Skies agreement, which allows EU airlines to fly freely in the bloc, remains 
unresolved. 
Ryanair will add a Brexit refund clause to its tickets from summer 2019, the airline said last week, as it warned 
customers their flights may not be valid if aviation regulations were not finalised by then. 
“We are going to see increasing press on this and so while Ryanair has been encouraging people to book flights 
with confidence, what they are saying today is that they obviously are going to also price tickets in a way that 
encourages them to fly,” said Mark Simpson, an analyst at Goodbody in Dublin. 
Following a fight by its pilots, Ryanair has also bowed to pressure from its cockpit crew torecognise trade 
unionsacross the world. 
But the company warned on Monday that allowing unions to represent its pilots was not the end of the story: “Our 
outlook for the remainder of FY18 is cautious,” Ryanair said. 
“As we finalise union discussions along similar lines to that agreed in the UK, we expect some localised disruptions 
and adverse PR so investors should be prepared for the same.” 
The budget airline also told investors to expect rising staff and fuel costs. Without naming individual countries, 
Ryanair added: “In certain jurisdictions, unions representing competitor airlines will wish to test our commitment to 
our low cost, high pay/high productivity model to disrupt our operations. 
“We are fully prepared to face down any such disruption if it means defending our cost base or our high productivity 
model.”
Analysts at Bernstein wrote on Monday that “with the prospect of higher summer fares removed, the risks are now 
skewed to the downside, so we maintain our cautious view on the stock”. 
Load-Date: February 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to buy back €750m shares as quarterly profits rise 12%
Ryanair to buy back €750m shares as quarterly profits rise 12%
 
FT.com
February 5, 2018 Monday 7:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 233 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick in London
Body
Ryanair launched a surprise investor payout alongside a rise in quarterly profits on Monday, but cautioned investors 
to expect further disruption as the budget airline continues to wrangle with pilots over their pay and conditions. 
The airline said it would buy back €750M worth of shares as net profits increased by 12 per cent to €106m for the 
three months to December 31, from the same period last year. 
Revenues gained 4 per cent to €1.4bn and passenger numbers rose 6 per cent to 28.8m. 
Following a rostering crisis last Autumn that fuelled pilots’ ongoing battle for better working conditions, the carrier 
led by Michael O’Leary has bowed to pressure from its cockpit crew to recognise trade unions across the world. 
But the company warned on Monday that allowing unions to represent its pilots was not the end of the story: 
Our outlook for the remainder of FY18 is cautious. As we finalise union discussions along similar lines to that 
agreed in the UK, we expect some localised disruptions and adverse PR so investors should be prepared for 
same.
Without naming individual countries, Ryanair added: 
In certain jurisdictions unions representing competitor airlines will wish to test our commitment to our low cost, 
high pay/high productivity model to disrupt our operations. We are fully prepared to face down any such 
disruption if it means defending our cost base or our high productivity model.
Ryanair to buy back €750m shares as quarterly profits rise 12%
Load-Date: February 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair : holdings pattern
Ryanair: holdings pattern
 
FT.com
February 5, 2018 Monday 7:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 379 words
Body
“Thank you for flying Ryanair. Be aware that your flight may be cancelled at short notice if we need to teach our 
pilots a lesson.” Passengers endure the privations of Ryanair in return for cheap fares. Likewise, great returns have 
encouraged shareholders to play down risks.
Third-quarter results on Monday came with the usual predictions of fare wars and a warning of more strikes as 
Ryanair talks pay with its newly unionised pilots. There was also a €750m share buyback. 
These are nothing new; Ryanair has spent €3.9bn buying back stock since 2007. But they may come under more 
scrutiny as Brexit approaches, given their potential to change the composition of the share register.
About 60 per cent of Ryanair shareholders are EU-based. Within that, analysts estimate 20 per cent are in the UK. 
Maintaining EU majority ownership, as required for intra-EU flights, will be a problem after Brexit. 
There are various solutions. One is to focus buybacks on the American Depositary Receipts. Ryanair has had a 
mandate to buy back ADRs since 2012, but prefers the ordinary stock since the ADRs are tightly held and tend to 
trade at a premium to their implied value. If UK holders were all reclassified as ex-EU, it could cost €4.8bn to buy 
back enough ADRs to keep EU ownership at 51 per cent, assuming it is feasible to target one set of investors in this 
way.
Some UK institutions could transfer their holdings to subsidiaries within the EU, though it is not clear that would 
pass muster if the beneficial owner remained UK-based. Ryanair could tender for shares held by UK-based 
investors. Even more laboriously, it could encourage UK investors to swap Ryanair shares for some newly listed 
UK-only entity, a bit like GE did with Synchrony. 
Ryanair : holdings pattern
A simpler solution is to deem UK-held shares “restricted” and compel holders to sell to an EU investor. Ryanair’s 
articles of association permit this. It is a risk that may get more attention if talks do not result in a better solution, 
such as deeming UK investors equivalent to EU ones. “Thank you for investing in Ryanair. Be aware that you may 
be forced to sell your shares at short notice.” 
Lex recommends the FT’s Due Diligence newsletter, a curated briefing on the world of mergers and acquisitions. 
Sign up at  ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: February 5, 2018
End of Document
Winter Olympics, BoE policy decision, mining in the spotlight
Winter Olympics, BoE policy decision, mining in the spotlight
 
FT.com
February 4, 2018 Sunday 5:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1970 words
Body
Monday
Tillerson visits Colombia
Rex Tillerson, US secretary of state, is due to arrive in Colombia as part of a tour of Latin America that has included 
stops in Mexico, Argentina and Peru. Washington said ahead of the visit that Venezuela, which is suffering a severe 
economic crisis, would be high on the agenda for discussion. In a speech before setting off Mr Tillerson said that 
China was now the largest trading partner of Chile, Argentina, Brazil and Peru. He said Russia’s growing presence 
in the region was “alarming as well”, adding that strong institutions and accountable governments were needed to 
secure sovereignty against “potential predatory actors”. Mr Tillerson travels to Jamaica on Wednesday. 
•
Tillerson extols 19th-century US foreign policy in Latin America
Ryanair
Ryanair reports third-quarter earnings. The low-cost carrier has just reached its first union deal, agreeing to 
recognise Britain’s pilot group as it attempts to resolve a long-running battle with cockpit crews over wages and 
conditions. Michael O’Leary, chief executive, had earlier said hell would freeze over before he would welcome 
unions into Ryanair, but the company now says dialogue with organised workers will help the business. The airline 
reported earnings per share of $4.34 for the last quarter in October, missing the consensus estimate of $4.37. The 
consensus EPS forecast for the third quarter is $0.50. The reported EPS for the same quarter last year was $0.41.
•
Ryanair in ‘historic’ deal to recognise British pilots’ union
Africa mining conference
Winter Olympics, BoE policy decision, mining in the spotlight
Cape Town hosts the Investing in African Mining Indaba. The conference is expected to draw thousands of 
investors and key corporate figures, including delegations from 45 African and non-African governments. The 
mining sector is enjoying its best run since 2010 as a combination of accelerating global growth and supply 
constraints has driven raw material prices to their highest level in more than three years, boosting the profitability 
and cash positions of the world’s biggest mining houses. However, some in the industry may be wary of mining’s 
history of violent boom and bust cycles. The conference will also present a platform for Zimbabwe’s new 
administration to attract investment. President Emmerson Mnangagwa has been keen to stress the country is now 
“open for business”. The event runs until Thursday.
•
Miners and investors bet and fret over latest commodities cycle
Tuesday
EU expansion 
The European Parliament meets for a plenary session in Strasbourg, where the EU will hold out the prospect of 
membership to six western Balkan countries by 2025 as it seeks to breathe new life into enlargement of the bloc, 
strengthen controls on migration and counter Russian influence in the volatile region. There will be a debate with 
the prime minister of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, on the future of Europe and also a European Commission 
statement on the decision adopted on the EU Enlargement Strategy on the Western Balkans. 
•
EU to map out membership for 6 western Balkan states
BP 
BP posts fourth-quarter results. BP reported underlying third-quarter profits on a replacement cost basis — the 
measure watched most closely by analysts — of $1.87bn, compared with $933m in the same period last year. BP 
said early last month that while the lowering of the US corporate tax rate from 35 to 21 per cent would have a 
positive impact on future earnings, the reforms would have a negative impact on its fourth-quarter results. BP is 
expected to see a strong rise in profits from its upstream business but its refining margin is likely to fall. 
•
BP says US tax reforms will cause $1.5bn hit
General Motors
General Motors is expected to report strong year-end results. Chuck Stevens, GM’s chief financial officer, said last 
month during a 2018 guidance presentation that he expected the US carmaker to “deliver record earnings per share 
at the high end of the $6 to $6.50 range, which is an increase from our prior guidance”. However, the company 
warned its earnings would stall this year due to a deteriorating US market. Investors will also watch for commentary 
on production and inventory levels in a declining US new vehicle sales market and for more information on sales of 
higher-margin pick-up trucks, SUVs and crossovers.
•
US car groups issue warnings over outlook in 2018
Walt Disney
Walt Disney is expected to post a rise in first-quarter revenue, helped by the success of Thor: Ragnarok and Star 
Wars: The Last Jedi. Disney’s ESPN, which has been losing subscribers, is still trying to boost advertising sales. 
Disney is in the process of buying most of Fox for $52bn and investors will watch for more details on the deal. They 
will also seek more clarity on the timing of the launch of the company’s video streaming offerings. 
•
Disney-Fox deal heralds a new dawn in tax-related M&A
Singapore Air show
Asia’s largest air show opens in Singapore. The Asia-Pacific region is the world’s fastest-growing aviation market 
and manufacturers will be looking to sell products and services. Strong airline profits and higher defence spending 
have boosted the outlook for aerospace groups but after a surge of activity in 2017 the event is expected to produce 
Winter Olympics, BoE policy decision, mining in the spotlight
few big-ticket deals. China is pushing into the military drone markets and is also seeking to carve out space in the 
tightly controlled commercial market with its narrow-body C919. Russia’s Irkut MC-21 and Japan’s Mitsubishi 
Regional Jet are seeking to become serious competitors and will also be represented.
•
Airbus woos China with A380 industrial partnership offer
Wednesday
Rio Tinto
Rio Tinto reports full-year results. Aided by higher commodity prices and a productivity push the Anglo-Australian 
miner is tipped by analysts to pay a record dividend of $2.75 a share and top up its share buyback programme. For 
the 12 months to December, Rio is expected to report underlying earnings of $8.58bn, up from $5.1bn in 2016, 
according to analyst estimates compiled by Vuma, on sales of $41.5bn. Rio’s plans for its 40 per cent interest in 
Grasberg, the world’s second-biggest copper mine, will also be scrutinised. The miner has held discussions with the 
government of Indonesia over selling its interest.
•
Rio investors back remuneration chief as next chair
GSK
GlaxoSmithKline posts fourth-quarter results. New treatments for HIV and respiratory problems helped boost sales 
at the UK’s largest drugmaker in the third quarter, which said in October it was on track to meet expectations after 
being forced to cut the top end of guidance earlier in 2017. This time around GSK is expected to beat forecasts 
thanks to strong pharmaceuticals and vaccines sales, while cost savings from restructuring and continued 
efficiencies are likely to boost operating profits.
•
GSK leads drugmakers’ fight against superbugs
Tesla
Elon Musk’s Tesla reports fourth-quarter results. The company is expected to post a jump in revenue as it benefits 
from higher sales of its Model S, Model X and Model 3 vehicles. However, the electric carmaker will continue to 
post losses as production efforts for its mass market Model 3 ramp up and the company burns cash. Investors will 
watch for details about vehicle deliveries as well as guidance for Model S, X and 3 delivery targets in the first 
quarter and beyond.
•
Tesla chief Musk’s new pay deal aims for $650bn valuation
Thursday
BoE policy decision
The Bank of England delivers its interest rate decision. With wage growth still weak and the pace of activity slow by 
global and historical standards, the Monetary Policy Committee is expected to vote unanimously in favour of leaving 
rates on hold at 0.5 per cent and asset purchases unchanged. According to Reuters polls, markets see a 50 per 
cent chance that there will be another move in May, a relatively quick follow-up to November’s rate rise, the first for 
a decade. The February Inflation Report will also be scrutinised for any signs of rate rises on the horizon. Looking 
ahead, there has been an upside surprise on growth since November, which could lift the 2018 forecast from 1.6 
per cent to 1.7 per cent. Sterling has strengthened and the oil futures curve is sloping downwards, leading HSBC 
Global Research to think inflation forecasts for 2019 and 2020 could be marked down. 
•
Mark Carney calls time on RPI inflation measure
AIG
American International Group reports fourth-quarter earnings. Brian Duperreault, chief executive, pledged to rethink 
the insurer’s approach to risk taking after he described AIG’s performance as too “volatile” in the wake of last 
Winter Olympics, BoE policy decision, mining in the spotlight
quarter’s wider-than-forecast $1.7bn loss. There will be much to digest this time around. Special items related to a 
new US law stand to reduce the tax benefits AIG has been able to reap due to the hefty losses it posted during the 
2007-09 financial crisis. It also recently reworked its business lines and acquired reinsurer Validus. Analysts will 
also watch how Mr Duperreault is reshaping AIG into a more technology-focused insurer that is trying to expand 
underlying businesses after nearly a decade of restructuring and asset sales.
•
AIG to use old losses to avoid taxes on Validus profits
Twitter
Twitter, which has not posted a profit since its debut, is expected to report a gain for the first time in the fourth 
quarter as efforts to cut costs pay off. Revenue is expected to fall again, raising some concerns, but investors will 
watch for userbase growth. Chief operating officer Anthony Noto left the company in January and any signs on how 
his role will be filled will also be watched.
•
Anthony Noto leaves Twitter for top job at SoFi
Viacom
Media conglomerate Viacom, which is exploring a merger with CBS, is expected to report a fall in quarterly revenue 
led by lower income from cable and satellite companies. With more users switching to online entertainment, cable 
and satellite companies have shed more than 1m subscribers, meaning investors and analysts will pay close 
attention to commentary on forecasts.
•
CBS and Viacom take steps towards exploring merger
Friday
Winter Olympics
The 23rd Olympic Winter Games start at Pyeongchang, South Korea, with doping in the spotlight. The International 
Olympic Committee has issued invitations to 169 Russian athletes who can compete as neutrals despite being 
banned in December after alleged state-sponsored doping at the 2014 games in Sochi. There will be seven sports 
— biathlon, bobsleigh, curling, ice hockey, luge, skating and skiing — including 15 varied disciplines, with 102 
medals up for grabs. Nigeria’s women’s bobsleigh team will be the first African sled to compete at the Winter 
Games and Jamaica is sending a women’s bobsleigh team 30 years after their men’s team made a historic 
appearance in Calgary. North and South Korea, meanwhile, are still discussing the possibility of a combined 
women’s ice hockey team.
•
Russian athletes have lifetime Olympic ban overturned
Rio de Janeiro Carnival
The annual Rio de Janeiro Carnival takes place in Brazil. The opening ceremony sees the mayor handing over the 
keys to the city to a Dionysian character called King Momo, the Lord of Unruliness, thus heralding four days of 
revelry and colour. The carnival’s highlight is the samba, with two classes that parade on the Avenida Rio Branco 
and at the Sambodrome. Some samba schools have members running into thousands, with as many as 30 floats 
each and divisions of drummers running into the hundreds. Among the confetti, floats, skimpy sequinned costumes 
and masquerades, the boundaries of race, gender, sex and class are transcended and the masses party.
•
My City: Rio de Janeiro
Markets questions
How vulnerable are equity markets as bond yields rise? Will US wages growth force investors to rethink dollar 
selling? What can we expect to hear from the Bank of England? Click here for the major talking points for investors 
as a new trading week beckons.
Winter Olympics, BoE policy decision, mining in the spotlight
Load-Date: February 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair in ‘historic’ deal to recognise British pilots’ union
Ryanair in ‘historic’ deal to recognise British pilots’ union
 
FT.com
January 30, 2018 Tuesday 1:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 464 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Naomi Rovnick
Body
Ryanair has reached its first union deal in its 33-year history, agreeing to recognise Britain’s pilot group as it 
attempts to resolve a long-running battle with cockpit crews over wages and conditions. 
Europe’s biggest budget airline on Tuesday said it had signed an agreement with the British Airline Pilots’ 
Association (Balpa) that will see the union represent about 600 UK pilots directly employed by Ryanair. 
The move marks progress in the low-cost airline’s bid to repair relations with pilots following threats of strike action 
last year. In December, Ryanair reversed its long-held policy on not allowing trade unions into the workforce in an 
attempt to avoid disruption during Christmas week. 
The UK accounts for about a quarter of Ryanair’s pilots and aircraft and the deal comes less than two weeks after 
the low-cost carrier’s 15 UK bases accepted a pay increase of 20 per cent. 
While Ryanair has moved forward with its UK pilots, discussions with pilot groups in other countries, such as 
Ireland, are ongoing. As well as joining European unions, some pilots have been pushing for an independent 
European employee council to represent their views to management. 
Eddie Wilson, chief people officer at Ryanair, said the agreement showed “how serious Ryanair is about working 
constructively with unions that are willing to work constructively with us”. 
He called on other unions to “stop wasting time and act quickly”. Ryanair is in talks with unions in Ireland, Italy, 
Germany and Spain. 
Ryanair in ‘historic’ deal to recognise British pilots’ union
The Irish airline’s dispute with pilots blew up after the carrier had to cancel thousands of flights in September 
because of a rostering failure that led to a shortage of air crew. Pilots were emboldened to push for better terms in 
the wake of the crisis and as Ryanair looked to recruit more cockpit staff. 
Brian Strutton, general secretary of Balpa, said: “Given Ryanair’s previous hostility towards unions, today’s 
agreement is a historic one.” 
He added that while the union was “initially sceptical” about the airline’s sincerity in offering recognition to Balpa and 
other unions, “our conversations and meetings with them have shown that they are genuine in wanting a 
constructive trade union relationship”. 
The move marks a capitulation by chief executive Michael O’Leary, who had previously vowed never to recognise 
trade unions in his 23 years at the helm of the budget carrier. He has long castigated union efforts to establish a 
foothold in Ryanair and subjected them to withering criticism. 
Balpa said it will be opening an election for five Ryanair company council representatives who will lead negotiations 
on issues such as pay, hours, rostering and holidays. It will also elect an advisory group for Ryanair’s contractor 
pilots who are not directly employed by the company. 
Load-Date: February 1, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair recognises pilot union in reversal on worker representation
Ryanair recognises pilot union in reversal on worker representation
 
FT.com
January 30, 2018 Tuesday 8:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 267 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick
Body
Ryanair has struck an agreement to recognise Britain's pilot union, after it reversed decades of policy on workers' 
representation in a bid to draw a line under several months of bitter industrial relations with its cockpit staff. 
The low-cost airline, whose chief executive Michael O'Leary previously said "hell would freeze over" before he 
allowed trade unions into his workforce, has now signed a deal for its 600 UK pilots to be represented by the British 
Airline Pilots' Association (BALPA). 
Brian Sutton, General Secretary BALPA said: 
"Given Ryanair’s previous hostility towards unions, today’s agreement is an historic one." 
This is the first agreement Ryanair has signed with a pilots' union. 
The airline had said last month it had written to pilot unions in several countries including Ireland, Britain, Germany 
and Italy, inviting them to start talks with a view to recognising the groups as official representatives. 
This followed a scheduling crisis at the airline in September, triggered by a shortage of cockpit crew and a mess-up 
with pilot rotas. The debacle led to the cancellation of 20,000 flights and prompted a pilot backlash for higher pay 
and better employment terms. Ryanair offered to increase pay and improve job security in a move that would cost 
€100m a year, although BALPA remained doubtful it would ever win recognition. 
Ryanair recognises pilot union in reversal on worker representation
"While we were initially sceptical about Ryanair’s sincerity in offering recognition to us and other unions, our 
conversations and meetings with them have shown that they are genuine in wanting a constructive trade union 
relationship," Mr Sutton said.
Load-Date: January 30, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet chief takes pay cut to match female predecessor
EasyJet chief takes pay cut to match female predecessor
 
FT.com
January 29, 2018 Monday 3:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 530 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick and Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
The new chief executive of EasyJet has taken a salary cut after he was awarded a higher base wage by the airline’s 
board than his well-regarded female predecessor Carolyn McCall.
Johan Lundgren took the helm at the airline on December 1 with a starting salary of £740,000. Dame Carolyn, who 
left in November to run broadcaster ITV, finished on a salary of £706,000. Her last full remuneration package was 
£1.5m including bonuses and pension contributions. 
Overall, EasyJet has a gender pay gap of 52 per cent, the biggest of any company yet to have reported data under  
new UK government rules. 
“At easyJet we are absolutely committed to giving equal pay and equal opportunity for women and men,” Mr 
Lundgren, former Tui deputy chief executive, said on Monday. 
“I want that to apply to everybody at easyJet and to show my personal commitment I have asked the board to 
reduce my pay to match that of Carolyn’s when she was at easyJet.”
It is not yet clear how much Mr Lundgren’s total pay and bonus package will be for 2018.
Mr Lundgren also did not explain why he had come into EasyJet on a higher salary than Dame Carolyn. A 
spokesman for the airline’s board of directors, whose remuneration committee is chaired by former Thomson and 
Tui executive Charles Gurassa, said they had “looked to secure the right candidate and the salary awarded 
reflected his experience and his previous salary”. 
EasyJet chief takes pay cut to match female predecessor
Mr Lundgren’s last full annual salary at Tui was €875,000 (£770,000). 
During Dame Carolyn’s seven years running EasyJet, passenger numbers rose to record highs. The company paid 
£1.2bn in dividends and gave investors a total return of more than 300 per cent, placing it behind arch-rival Ryanair 
but ahead of British Airways owner IAG.
Frances O’Grady, the leader of Britain’s trade union movement, said: “Token gestures are no substitute for 
comprehensive action to address the gender pay gap.”
Jo Swinson, who was minister for women in the last coalition government, said the fact Mr Lundgren had started on 
a higher salary “shows how easy it is, even for a company that has had a woman at the top and had during that 
time taken significant steps on diversity, to fall into the old trap” of placing a higher value on a male employee. 
Ms Swinson, who is now the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats, said EasyJet should be praised for “looking at 
this and deciding that something went wrong”, however, and urged all large companies “to do the same checks” to 
ensure this sort of thing does not happen.
“There may be reasons for the new person to have higher pay, such as there being new responsibilities, but gender 
should never be the reason,” she said.
Women are under-represented in top-paid pilot roles across the aviation industry — according to the  British 
Women Pilots’ Association, just 5 per cent of UK pilots are women. 
Under Dame Carolyn, EasyJet set goals to fill half the places in its engineering apprenticeship scheme with women, 
and that  by 2020 a fifth of its trainee pilots should be female.
Additional reporting by Nicholas Megaw 
Letter in response to this article:
Non-diverse cultures are self-reinforcing and can remain very hard to shift / From Dominie Moss, London, UK
Load-Date: January 31, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet revenues boosted by struggles at rival airlines
EasyJet revenues boosted by struggles at rival airlines
 
FT.com
January 23, 2018 Tuesday 7:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 287 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick in London
Body
Turbulence at rival airlines has helped propel EasyJet to improved revenues and passenger numbers for its most 
recent financial quarter. 
The orange-hued budget airline on Tuesday reported a 14 per cent rise in sales for the three months to December, 
compared with the same period in 2016, to £1.1bn.
Total revenue per seat, a key metric for airlines, increased by 8.4 per cent to £55.99, while cost per seat fell slightly 
to £54.34. 
The carrier flew 18.8m passengers in the quarter, which was an 8 per cent increase on the final three months of 
2016. 
“EasyJet has seen a positive trading environment based on the strength of its network and customer proposition, 
capacity reductions and lower growth in EasyJet markets, in particular as a result of the bankruptcies of Monarch, 
Air Berlin and Alitalia,” the company said in its trading statement. 
The group said it also did well out of a pilot scheduling crisis in the Autumn at its arch rival Ryanair. Its headline 
costs, including fuel, improved by 1.6 per cent. EasyJet forecast that its fuel bill will fall by up to £65m in the six 
months to March, compared with a year previously, although headline cost per seat including fuel will rise 1 per cent 
for the full year. 
EasyJet revenues boosted by struggles at rival airlines
EasyJet’s shares had climbed sharply in the run-up to this update as investors anticipated a decent turnout in the 
first trading date under new chief executive Johan Lundgren. 
Mr Lundgren, who took over from Dame Carolyn McCall in December, said on Tuesday: 
“My aim is to help EasyJet to go from strength to strength. Our customer proposition will continue to drive both 
passenger growth and loyalty. We have great revenue growth, strong cost control, a robust operation and a strong 
balance sheet. “
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet revenues boosted by struggles at rival airlines
EasyJet revenues boosted by struggles at rival airlines
 
FT.com
January 23, 2018 Tuesday 10:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 652 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick
Body
A number of European airline bankruptcies and turbulence at its arch-rival Ryanair propelled easyJet to double-digit 
revenue growth in the final quarter of last year.
The no-frills carrier on Tuesday reported a 14.1 per cent rise in sales for the three months to December, compared 
with the same period in 2016, to £1.1bn.
Total revenue per seat increased 8.4 per cent to £55.99, while cost per seat fell slightly to £54.34. The carrier also 
flew 18.8m passengers in the quarter, which was an 8 per cent increase on the final three months of 2016. 
“EasyJet has seen a positive trading environment based on the strength of its network and customer proposition, 
capacity reductions and lower growth in easyJet markets, in particular as a result of the bankruptcies of Monarch, 
Air Berlin and Alitalia,” the company said in its trading statement. 
The group’s new chief executive Johan Lundgren, who took over from Carolyn McCall in December last year, 
added: “Clearly there has been less competitive pressure on certain routes — we’ve seen less capacity from 
Ryanair this winter — [while] we clearly also had the changes that happened with Air Berlin and Alitalia that has 
given us benefits in these countries as well.”
EasyJet shares rose 6 per cent to £16.64 in opening trade on Tuesday, having already climbed to a two-year high 
in the run-up to this update as investors anticipated a robust performance in easyJet’s first update under Mr 
Lundgren. 
EasyJet revenues boosted by struggles at rival airlines
Alitalia entered into bankruptcy last year after employees rejected a deal on salary and benefits proposed by the 
company, in which Etihad, the UAE-based carrier, had a big investment. 
UK budget airline Monarch collapsed in October, while Ryanair cancelled thousands of flights in late September 
before heading straight into its latest industrial dispute with its pilots.
Insolvent Air Berlin is being broken up, with parts having been sold to easyJet as well as Lufthansa. 
But aside from its rivals’ woes, easyJet is also managing to keep a lid on its fuel costs, which it said would be 
reduced by £60m to £65m in the six months to March, compared with the same period last year. 
This would be the case if current exchange rates stayed the same, easyJet said. 
Gerald Khoo, an analyst at Liberum, cautioned that while easyJet was currently doing well from capacity shrinking 
in the industry following airlines’ bankruptcies, there was “no certainty this situation would be the same by the peak 
summer holiday season”. 
He pointed out that while there had obviously been bankruptcies, it was unclear at this stage how leading British 
airlines such as IAG-owned British Airways “will fill the gaps, and how much new capacity will bump up against 
easyJet’s routes.”
BA, which has purchased Monarch’s take-off and landing slots at Gatwick airport, “has announced some of their 
schedule but we don’t know how it will completely pan out,” Mr Khoo added.
In his first major move as easyJet chief, Mr Lundgren has overhauled his top management team to focus the 
airline’s strategy more on collecting and utilising customer data. 
Chief commercial officer Peter Duffy has left the company, easyJet said, to make way for someone who will take 
the newly created role of chief data officer. 
“I’m changing the structure in that I am creating the new position of chief data officer, who will report directly to 
myself and will further build on work we have already done with data science to exploit the opportunity of the billions 
of data points [we have] within the organisation,” Mr Lundgren said. 
This meant that the once top marketing position of chief commercial officer “wasn’t there any more,” Mr Lundgren 
added, “and as a result of that, Peter has left the company”. 
Mr Lundgren, a former deputy chief at Tui Group, said he did not expect to make any more major changes to how 
the airline was run in the near future. “It’s a really, really good position where we are at,” he added. 
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet proves some airlines are more equal than others
EasyJet proves some airlines are more equal than others 
 
FT.com
January 23, 2018 Tuesday 8:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 815 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Greetings from  Davos, where delegates to the World Economic Forum believe Elton John and Emmanuel Macron 
may have solved . . . Oh, come on. You didn’t really think the Financial Times would pay to send Lombard to 
Switzerland, did you? 
More than 1,000 private jets have been descending on airports around the Swiss resort. But this columnist would 
struggle to gain editorial approval for an easyJet flight from Luton, price £52 (Pringles snack pack not included). In 
fact, it would be a struggle even to find a seat on EZY 2045 LTN-ZRH, judging by the low-cost airline’s  latest 
trading update. 
EasyJet said on Tuesday that the load factor on its aircraft increased by 2.1 percentage points in the three months 
to December 31, to 92.1 per cent. So, with flight capacity increasing by 5.5 per cent, quarterly revenue rose 14 per 
cent to a forecast-beating £1.14bn. 
And, unlike hand-wringing pianists or left-leaning theorists, easyJet had no qualms about  profiting at others’ 
expense. In fact, it admitted that it had prospered from rising inequality: “positive trading” was partly “as a result of 
the bankruptcies of Monarch, Air Berlin and Alitalia, as well as . . . Ryanair’s flight cancellations”. 
Not only have rivals’ misfortunes reduced competitive pressure on prices, they have enabled easyJet to win assets. 
It has taken over operations from Air Berlin at Tegel airport, and expects a first-year loss of just £60m.
EasyJet proves some airlines are more equal than others
EasyJet’s cost per seat, excluding fuel, has been helped by competitors’ woes, too, as passengers switching flights 
bought up empty seats, lifting the load factor. That limited the cost increase to 1 per cent, as forecast, for crew pay 
rises and weather delays.
Fuel costs — which are 79 per cent hedged for 2018 — are now set to fall: by £60m-£65m in the first half, year-on-
year, and by £80m-£100m in the full year. Meanwhile, second-quarter bookings are ahead of this time last year, 
with 60 per cent secured. Analysts therefore concluded that investors could only get richer. Some lifted their full-
year pre-tax profit forecasts from £445m to £475m or £500m, and wondered if £357m net cash might hasten 
dividend increases.
However, at Luton as at Davos, the big question is how much longer can the wider inequality continue? 
Analysts have warned that the competitive advantage easyJet has gained from others’ demise could disappear by 
summer, as capacity returns. It seems unlikely to return in equal measure, though. 
Monarch’s Luton slots have been taken by Wizz Air to fly to eastern Europe, not head to head with easyJet. Only 
40-50 per cent of Monarch’s Gatwick slots are back on sale with British Airways owner IAG — which has just had its 
purchase of Air Berlin subsidiary, Niki, scuppered. And Air Berlin’s Tegel capacity is already in the hands of 
easyJet. 
Even if the Elton-Macron show sorts out global inequality by the end of the week, easyJet remains a winner. EZY 
2045 is a better look than a private jet.
Latest Pet project
Bosses of Pets At Home regularly display their critter-loving credentials in the retailer’s annual reports, writes Kate 
Burgess. Ian Kellett,  current chief executive, was pictured with three pooches in last year’s. However, he and his 
predecessor give the lie to the stereotype that Brits love their pets more than their progeny. Nick Wood (owner of 
the late Snuggles the Hamster) quit PAH in 2016 to spend more time with his kids. Mr Kellett will leave in May to 
spend more time with his daughter, as well as his horses. 
Still, share prices suggest Brits do value pet shops more than children’s stores. Over the past year, PAH’s shares 
have moved in the opposite direction to toys and tot specialists Mothercare and Hornby. And while Toys R Us only 
narrowly avoided collapse over Christmas, PAH recorded 7 per cent growth in like-for-like store sales.
This will be a relief to Mr Kellett. A year ago,  PAH sales were falling. It has since cut prices to draw customers 
back. Stepping up higher-margin sales of in-store vet and grooming services will offset the margin erosion. 
Nonetheless, Mr Kellett’s successor, Peter Pritchard, currently head of retail, needs to do more than put snaps of 
his two cats in next year’s annual report to win shareholders’ support. He must keep up the pace on vet rollouts and 
expand online revenues. And, even if investors prefer puppies to children, they should avoid paying a premium for 
the pet shop’s shares.
Sky: not the limit?
With regulators insisting on remedies for media plurality concerns over Fox’s takeover of Sky — even 
though Disney is set to buy Fox — analysts at Citi have a novel suggestion: Sky could simply sell its news operation 
to Disney in advance of a Fox/Disney deal. Citi’s team then ask whether guaranteeing regulatory approval in this 
way might justify a higher price for Sky than £10.85 a share. Lombard believes it’s known as “thinking outside the 
box”. 
Pets At Home:  
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
EasyJet proves some airlines are more equal than others
End of Document
Ryanair strikes pay rise deal with UK air crew
Ryanair strikes pay rise deal with UK air crew
 
FT.com
January 18, 2018 Thursday 8:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 384 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, Industry Editor
Body
Ryanair appeared to move a step closer to resolving a long-running battle with pilots over wages and conditions 
after air crew in the low-cost carrier’s 15 UK bases accepted a pay deal. 
The deal, which includes London’s Stansted, the carrier’s biggest base which last year rejected an improved offer, 
helped push up Ryanair’s shares more than 3 per cent to €16.63, although they are still far below the six month 
peak of €19.79. 
However, some pilots suggested the votes were far from resolving complaints about terms and conditions. While 
Ryanair said the deal represents wage increases of up to 20 per cent for air crew, one UK-based pilot said it was 
essentially the same offer that had been rejected by Stansted. Many had refused to vote because of fears that the 
terms would render any attempt at collective bargaining through unions null and void, he said.
“This has not ended by a long shot,” said the pilot, who wanted to remain anonymous for fear of repercussions. 
Ryanair remains in negotiations with pilots in Spain, Italy, Ireland and Germany, which have all threatened strikes in 
recent months. The carrier refused to comment on the talks.
Ryanair’s dispute with pilots blew up after the carrier was forced in September to cancel thousands of flights 
because of a rostering failure and a shortage of air crew. 
Ryanair strikes pay rise deal with UK air crew
Many crew have long resented the carrier’s refusal to recognise unions and the fact that about half of the carrier’s 
pilots are not permanently employed, but work as contractors. Pilots were emboldened to push for better terms in 
the wake of the crisis and as Ryanair looked to recruit more cockpit staff.
In December, Ryanair was forced by strike threats to reverse its long-held policy on collective bargaining. The 
carrier said it would recognise pilot unions in Germany and six other EU countries in an attempt to avoid disruption 
during Christmas week.
In Ireland, a majority of pilots at the Cork and Shannon bases had agreed to the pay increases. Most contractor and 
new entrants based in Dublin had also backed the new pay offer. However, about 35 per cent of Dublin pilots had 
not voted and so would not receive the increase next week.
Ryanair said discussions on union recognition continued with Balpa, the UK pilot union, while talks with Irish unions 
were “progressing slowly”. 
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Just Eat leads FTSE 100 to a fresh record
Just Eat leads FTSE 100 to a fresh record
 
FT.com
January 11, 2018 Thursday 6:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 443 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Just Eat led the FTSE 100 to another record on Thursday after Barclays forecast that a looming ban on credit card 
transaction fees will end up boosting profitability.
The takeaway ordering website had been under pressure in recent days after it introduced a 50p surcharge on all 
UK orders to counter card fee ban. 
The group had previously levied a 50p card processing fee on the restaurant rather than the customer.
Most customers will see little difference as restaurants were likely to pass on the fee at checkout, said Barclays. 
But, since about 30 per cent of Just Eat orders are settled in cash, the upfront levy could generate an extra £15m of 
extra revenue for Just Eat, meaning 2018 results will come in well ahead of consensus expectations, it said.
Barclays also argued that Just Eat’s 32 per cent stake in a Brazilian joint venture is under-appreciated by the 
market, given it is already larger by orders than the UK business was in 2014. It put a £10 valuation on the stock, 
which closed 4.7 per cent higher at 803.8p.
Brent at $70 a barrel meant commodity stocks supported the wider market with the FTSE 100 gaining 14.43 points 
or 0.2 per cent, to 7,762.94.
EasyJet led the airlines higher after a UBS consumer survey found no evidence of a slowdown in UK ticket 
spending. 
Just Eat leads FTSE 100 to a fresh record
UBS retained “buy” advice on EasyJet (up 3.9 per cent to £15.37) and IAG (1.6 per cent firmer at 668p) while 
upgrading to “buy” on Ryanair (ahead 1.8 per cent to €15.79).
While European airlines operating margins and profitability are already at record levels, the bull run can continue 
thanks to a supportive economy, ex-fuel cost controls, continued consolidation and improvements in capacity 
discipline, said UBS.
“We are one year further into what is now nine years of recovery so earnings momentum in our view is more 
important than relative valuation multiples.”
Greene King lost 6 per cent to 526.2p and Mitchells & Butlers was 0.7 per cent weaker at 267.6p. 
Numis downgraded both pub groups to “reduce”, citing the managed operators’ higher operational gearing and 
lower ability to pass on wage inflation than those with a tenanted estate.
Disappointing updates from Marks and Spencer and Tesco were the focus among the retailers but it was Card 
Factory that led the sector lower with a 20 per cent drop to 225.8p. 
Comments from management about a long-term sales slowdown cast doubt over whether to expect the 15p special 
dividend Card Factory usually pays in October.
Following talk of a sizeable placing by an institutional investor at 199p apiece, Barclays retreated 2.5 per cent to 
196.1p. Separately, KBW downgraded Barclays to “underperform” with a 180p target price. 
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Fast Europe Open: Turkey inflation, UK construction PMI
Fast Europe Open: Turkey inflation, UK construction PMI
 
FT.com
January 3, 2018 Wednesday 5:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 281 words
Byline: Alice Woodhouse
Body
Britain has  held informal talks about joining a flagship Pacific trade group, in an audacious bid to kick-start exports 
after Brexit.
The proposal, being developed by Liam Fox’s Department for International Trade, would make the UK the first 
member of the Trans-Pacific Partnership that does not border the Pacific Ocean or the South China Sea.
However, the UK’s trade relationship with TPP countries pales in comparison to its existing one with fellow EU 
members or the US. All 11 TPP countries combined accounted for less than 8 per cent of UK goods exported last 
year while in comparison Germany alone accounted for 11 per cent.
In markets, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index was up 0.3 per cent and the Hang Seng China Enterprises index of 
large-cap Chinese stocks rose 0.5 per cent. The CSI 300 of major Shanghai and Shenzhen-listed companies rose 
1.1 per cent as Tuesday’s upbeat Caixin-Markit purchasing managers’ survey and a  change to the rules that will 
increase the size of the free float in many mainland equities continued to provide support. Higher commodity prices 
buoyed Australia’s S&P/ASX, which was up 0.2 per cent. Japanese markets were closed for a bank holiday. Brent 
oil was off 0.1 per cent $66.53 a barrel after touching its highest level since 2015 on Tuesday.
Futures tip both the FTSE 100 and S&P 500 to open 0.1 per cent higher.
Corporate earnings and updates for Wednesday include Next and Ryanair. The economic calendar has already 
broken its resolutions for the year (all times London).
•
07.00: Turkey consumer price index
Fast Europe Open: Turkey inflation, UK construction PMI
•
08.15: Switzerland retail sales
•
08.30: Switzerland manufacturing purchasing managers’ index
•
08.30: Hong Kong retail sales
•
09.30: UK construction PMI
Load-Date: January 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair seeks British air operating certificate as airlines brace for Brexit
Ryanair seeks British air operating certificate as airlines brace for Brexit
 
FT.com
January 2, 2018 Tuesday 4:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 204 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair has applied for a British air operating certificate to ensure it will be able to continue 
operating in the country after Brexit.
It is the latest carrier to take such steps amid fears a turbulent exit could cause disruption across the aviation 
market.
Ryanair confirmed on Tuesday that a subsidiary company, Ryanair UK, had filed an application on December 21 for 
an air operating certificate (AOC) with the UK’s Civil Aviation Authority.
“This may be required for Ryanair’s 3 UK domestic routes in the event of a hard Brexit in March 2019,” a 
spokesperson for the company said.
Low-cost rival Wizz Air announced in October it had applied for a British AOC and operating licence. EasyJet has 
also set up a EU-based airline to make sure it can continue its intra-European flights regardless of the outcome of 
Brexit talks.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, has long warned about the potential disruption that would be caused if 
the UK fails to progress on a new aviation deal with Europe.
Last summer, he warned that British travellers face wide-scale flight cancellations to popular summer holiday 
destinations unless the pace of negotiations over post-Brexit rules on airline operations quickens.
Ryanair seeks British air operating certificate as airlines brace for Brexit
Load-Date: January 2, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair seeks UK operating permit in Brexit move
Ryanair seeks UK operating permit in Brexit move
 
FT.com
January 2, 2018 Tuesday 5:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 325 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair has applied for a British air operating certificate to ensure it will be able to continue flying in 
the country after Brexit. 
The move makes it the latest carrier to take such steps amid fears that a turbulent exit from the EU could cause 
disruption across the aviation market. 
In October, Wizz Air, central and eastern Europe’s largest low-cost carrier, announced it was accelerating 
contingency planning for Brexit and applyingfor a British AOC and operating licence. EasyJet has also set up a EU-
based airline to ensure that it can continue its intra-European flights regardless of Brexit talks. 
Ryanair, Europe’s largest airline by passenger numbers, confirmed on Tuesday that a subsidiary, Ryanair UK, had 
filed an application on December 21 for an AOC with the UK’s Civil Aviation Authority. 
“This may be required for Ryanair’s three UK domestic routes in the event of a hard Brexit in March 2019,” a 
spokesperson for the company said. Ryanair’s three intra-UK routes account for just 2 per cent of its business. 
Airlines are grappling with a range of regulatory puzzles in the wake of Britain’s decision to exit the EU. These 
include agreeing a new legal basis for British airlines to operate flights between EU countries and ownership rules 
requiring airlines operating in the region to be majority controlled by entities in the bloc.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, has long warned about the potential disruption that would be caused 
unless the pace of negotiations over post-Brexit aviation rules quickens. Last summer, he said that British travellers 
Ryanair seeks UK operating permit in Brexit move
could face widescale cancellation of flights to popular summer holiday destinations from March 2019 if no quick 
progress was made.
Britain’s £60bn aviation industry has made it clear its preference for maintaining access to the EU’s Open Skies 
regime, which gives all EU airlines the right to fly between member states and domestically within member states.
Load-Date: January 3, 2018
End of Document
British Airways owner IAG outperforms weaker market
British Airways owner IAG outperforms weaker market
 
FT.com
January 2, 2018 Tuesday 6:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 447 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
The first day’s trading of 2018 saw British Airways owner IAG outperform a weaker London market. 
Merrill Lynch upgraded IAG to “buy”, largely on near-term trading hopes. While concerns about fuel costs and 
deflation are likely to resurface later in the year, Monarch’s bankruptcy and Ryanair’s “growth capitulation” have cut 
short-haul capacity, while Asian growth and resilient transatlantic corporate demand should support long-haul 
pricing, the broker told clients.
“Having lost direction in 2017, we think IAG is now attractively valued and offers underestimated exposure to 
inflecting short-haul pricing,” Merrill said. It put a 750p target on IAG, which closed 2.7 per cent higher at 668.8p. 
The index ended 0.5 per cent below its record high, down 39.67 points at 7,648.10.
Motor insurers faded on a combination of worries about the  rising cost of reinsurance ahead of the new year policy 
renewals and likely exposures to             a fire at the Liverpool Echo Arena car park, which destroyed about 1,400 
cars. Admiral faded 2.6 per cent to £19.49 and Direct Line was down 2.5 per cent to 372p.
Fashion retailer Asos climbed 2.2 per cent to £68.64, a four-year high, after Deutsche Bank turned positive with a 
£74 target. Deutsche cited growth prospects in Europe and the US, the launch last year of sportswear and 
cosmetics ranges, and a strength of customer economics that means new acquisitions pay back in just one year. 
BT added 1.2 per cent to 275p on a Merrill upgrade to “buy”. 
British Airways owner IAG outperforms weaker market
“BT is increasingly a mobile company” with its EE network “set to be the largest driver of growth through to 2021”, 
said Merrill’s team. The broker also predicted that the launch this year of “ G.fast” high speed fixed-line connections 
“will demonstrate the appetite of consumers to move up the pricing ladder”. 
Merrill also modelled reduced pension contributions based on a fund deficit of £10.4bn, meaning BT’s dividend 
could be fully covered by free cash from 2019. “Whereas the pension market has lamented the collapse in bond 
yields since the last triennial review in June 2014, we don’t believe a reduction in mortality improvements or upside 
from a restructuring of the scheme have been priced in,” Merrill said.
Pâtisserie Holdings climbed 7.1 per cent to 378.5p on a  report that it was preparing a £35m share issue to help 
fund the takeover of Gail’s Bakery.
Peel Hunt estimated that, assuming a £150m purchase price, the acquisition would boost Patisserie’s pre-tax profit 
by 30 per cent. “With earnings potentially progressing towards 25p per share, a share price approaching 500p could 
be achievable over the next two years if the company is able to make this acquisition,” said Peel Hunt.
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
German pilot union threatens further Ryanair strike action
German pilot union threatens further Ryanair strike action
 
FT.com
December 22, 2017 Friday 12:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 464 words
Byline: Olaf Storbeck
Body
Germany’s pilot union VC Cockpit is threatening more strike action against Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair, should the 
airline’s management not be willing to enter negotiations without preconditions.
More walkouts before January 5 are “probable” if Ryanair “does not move”, VC Cockpit spokesman Markus Wahl 
told the Financial Times.
January 5 is the date Ryanair suggested for further talks with the German pilot union. According to Mr Wahl, the 
Dublin-based carrier is continuing to reject two of the five union representatives.
This decision by Ryanair lead to the collapse of the first round of talks on December 20 in Dublin and triggered a 
four-hour strike in Germany on Friday morning. “As long as that’s the case, we won’t enter talks,” Mr Wahl stressed. 
“It is impossible that an employer tries to dictate to a union who to negotiate with.”
Pilots are calling for better financial and non-financial terms. They take issue, for instance, with the fact that about 
half of the cockpit staff flying for Ryanair are not permanently employed by the carrier, but work as contractors.
The conflict with its cockpit personnel is denting Ryanair’s share price. Since early December, shares in Europe’s 
largest airline by passengers have fallen about 15 per cent, costing it some €3bn in market capitalisation , 
according to Reuters data.
On December 15, the airline for the first time recognised pilot unions in Germany and six other EU countries in an 
attempt to avoid disruption during Christmas week.
German pilot union threatens further Ryanair strike action
On Friday morning, Ryanair pilots represented by VC Cockpit went on strike between 5am and 9am. During the first 
walkout in the carrier’s 32-year history, nine out of 36 flights scheduled to take off from German airports were 
delayed, some significantly.
“From our perspective, the strike was utterly successful”, Mr Wahl said. He said that Ryanair drafted in cockpit staff 
working on contractual basis and from foreign bases in an attempt to avoid cancellations.
Ryanair said only “a small number of pilots organised by the Lufthansa (VC) pilots union” took part in the strike. The 
airline called it “unjustified and unnecessary”. Ryanair apologised to the affected passengers. “There have been no 
cancellations, and Ryanair expects to operate all of our German scheduled flights today”, it said in a statement.
Mr Wahl pointed out that Rynair now has “time to reconsider”. The union said it will not go on strike during the 
Christmas holiday, but does not rule out further industrial action from December 27 onwards.
“If the airline continues to act like it does, further escalation is possible,” said Mr Wahl.
Ryanair says it refused one union representative who was a “former contract pilot who had not flown for Ryanair for 
15 months, who is currently in litigation with Ryanair in Germany”.
Load-Date: December 22, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair ‘expects to operate all flights’ amid German strike
Ryanair ‘expects to operate all flights’ amid German strike
 
FT.com
December 22, 2017 Friday 10:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 430 words
Byline: Olaf Storbeck
Body
The  first strike in the 32-year history of Ryanair had a limited impact on passengers, the low-cost airline said, with 
nine out of 36 flights scheduled to take off from German airports on Friday morning experiencing delays.
“There have been no cancellations, and Ryanair expects to operate all of our German scheduled flights today”, the 
airline said in a statement.
Markus Wahl, a spokesman of the VC Cockpit union, which yesterday called all permanently-employed Rynanair 
pilots in Germany to go on strike between 5 and 9 am, told German news agency DPA that the strike had been 
“absolutely satisfactory”.
Ryanair drafted in cockpit staff working on contractual basis and from foreign bases in an attempt to avoid 
cancellations, Mr Wahl said.
Ryanair said only “a small number of pilots organised by the Lufthansa (VC) pilots union” took part in the strike, 
which it called “unjustified and unnecessary”. The airline apologised to the affected passengers.
According to airport websites, a few flights were delayed by up to 10 hours. Ryanair flight FR 409, scheduled to 
take off at Cologne-Bonn airport to Copenhagen at 6:25 am, was rescheduled for 4:30pm. In Nuremberg, flight FR 
8120 which was supposed to leave at 6:30am to London Stansted was delayed to 11:15.
The pilot walk-out on Friday morning was the first for Ryanair since it was founded in 1985. It marks a stark 
escalation of a long-running dispute between the Dublin-based airline and its cockpit staff in Germany and other 
Ryanair ‘expects to operate all flights’ amid German strike
European countries. Pilots are calling for better financial and non-financial terms. The conflict is denting Ryanair’s 
share price. Since early December, shares in Europe’s largest airline by passengers fell more than 12 per cent.
A union spokesman told the Financial Times on Thursday that the four-hour walkout on was just “a warning shot” to 
Ryanair. “We do not want to wield the big stick immediately,” he said. He ruled out further strikes during the 
Christmas holidays but warned that further escalation afterwards was possible.
On December 15, the airline for the first time recognised pilot unions in Germany and six other EU countries in an 
attempt to avoid disruption during Christmas week. On Wednesday, talks with workers’ representatives in Germany 
fell apart. VC Cockpit said the airline had rejected two of the five union representatives present at the negotiations. 
“From VCs’ point of view this refusal clearly shows that the principles of trade union autonomy are disregarded by 
Ryanair and that the company does not truly desire to enter into constructive negotiations,” it said.
Load-Date: December 22, 2017
End of Document
German pilot union calls for Ryanair strike on Friday morning
German pilot union calls for Ryanair strike on Friday morning
 
FT.com
December 21, 2017 Thursday 4:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 526 words
Byline: Olaf Storbeck
Body
Ryanair, Europe’s largest airline by passengers, may be facing the first industrial action by pilots in its 32-year 
history, with German pilot union VC Cockpit calling for a walkout on Friday morning as the busy Christmas season 
begins.
The union called all permanently employed Ryanair pilots to go on strike on December 22 between 5 and 9 am.
“All flights that are planned by German airports during this period will be affected,” the union said in a  statement 
released on Thursday afternoon. At least 24 Ryanair flights are scheduled to take off from seven German airports 
during that period tomorrow morning, according to data collected by the Financial Times.
According to the union, 16 of those flights are operated by a German crew and might be either delayed or 
cancelled.
The airline called the strike “unjustified and unnecessary” and advised all customers in Germany to turn up as 
normal tomorrow on Friday, “as we will be doing our utmost to minimise any disruptions to the Christmas travel 
plans of our German customers”.
The pilot union is calling for a number of financial and non-financial improvements for the 4,000 Ryanair pilots. 
Among other things, they take issue with low fixed pay, an unattractive rota system and the high number of pilots 
who are not permanently employed by the airline.
VC Cockpit says it represents roughly half of Ryanair’s 400 pilots in Germany.
German pilot union calls for Ryanair strike on Friday morning
In a historic move on December 15, the airline for the first time  recognised pilot unions in Ireland, the UK, 
Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal in an attempt to avoid disruption during Christmas week.
“Christmas flights are very important to our customers and we wish to remove any worry or concern that they may 
be disrupted by pilot industrial action next week”, Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary said at the time, 
pointing out that “recognising unions will be a significant change for Ryanair.”
Yet the German pilot union said on Thursday afternoon that Ryanair had canceled initial negotiation talks scheduled 
to take place on Wednesday “at short notice”, as the airline rejected two of the five union representatives present at 
the negotiating table.
“From VCs’ point of view this refusal clearly shows that the principles of trade union autonomy are disregarded by 
Ryanair and that the company does not truly desire to enter into constructive negotiations,” the union said.
Ingolf Schumacher, a senior representative of VC Cockpit, criticised Ryanair’s offer to negotiate “as a further 
publicity stunt” and said the airline is “not interested in a mutually constructive cooperation, based on trust and 
equality”. Mr Schumacher said that in the history of the union, which was founded in 1968, “there has never been a 
case in which the collective bargaining autonomy has been trampled on by an employer as it is now the case with 
Ryanair.”
A union spokesman told the Financial Times the four-hour walkout on Friday was just “a warning shot” to Ryanair. 
“We do not want to wield the big stick immediately.” He ruled out further strikes during the Christmas holidays but 
warned that further escalation afterwards was possible if Ryanair did not change its attitude.
Load-Date: December 22, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair faces first pilot strike as German dispute escalates
Ryanair faces first pilot strike as German dispute escalates
 
FT.com
December 21, 2017 Thursday 8:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 403 words
Byline: Olaf Storbeck in Frankfurt 
Body
Ryanair is on the cusp of the first pilot strike in its 32-year history, with German union VC Cockpit calling for its 
members to walk out for four hours on Friday morning.
The move, announced on Thursday afternoon, marks a stark escalation of a long-running dispute between the 
Dublin-based airline and its cockpit staff in Germany, who are calling for better financial and non-financial terms. 
On December 15, the airline for the first time recognised pilot unions in Germany and six other EU countries in an 
attempt to avoid disruption during Christmas week. “Christmas flights are very important to our customers and we 
wish to remove any worry or concern that they may be disrupted”, Michael O’Leary, Ryanair chief executive, said at 
the time.
On Wednesday, however, talks with worker’s representatives in Germany fell apart. VC Cockpit said the airline had 
rejected two of the five union representatives present at the negotiations. “From VCs’ point of view this refusal 
clearly shows that the principles of trade union autonomy are disregarded by Ryanair and that the company does 
not truly desire to enter into constructive negotiations,”  it said.
Ryanair  called the proposed strike “unjustified and unnecessary” and advised all German customers to turn up as 
normal on Friday. 
Ryanair faces first pilot strike as German dispute escalates
In the six months up to September 30, the airline carried 72.1m passengers, an 11 per cent year-on-year increase. 
It has been Europe’s most profitable airline for years, earning €1.3bn in after-tax profit in the first half of the financial 
year, or 29 per cent of revenue. 
VC Cockpit, a small but battle-hardened union which between 2014 and 2016 grounded thousands of Lufthansa 
flights in a dispute that cost the German airline hundreds of millions of euros, says it represents about half of the 
400 Ryanair pilots in Germany. It has asked them to withdraw their labour on Friday between 5am and 9am. 
According to the union, 16 flights will be affected.
VC told the Financial Times that the four-hour walkout was “a warning shot” to Ryanair. “We do not want to wield 
the big stick immediately.” The union ruled out further strikes during the Christmas holidays but warned that 
escalation afterwards was possible.
Ingolf Schumacher, a senior representative of VC Cockpit, said the union, which was founded in 1968, had never 
seen a case “in which collective bargaining autonomy has been trampled on by an employer as it is [in this] case”.
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Keeping festive grins is worth more to Ryanair than €1.5bn
Keeping festive grins is worth more to Ryanair than €1.5bn
 
FT.com
December 18, 2017 Monday 7:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 797 words
Byline: Kate Burgess
Body
Michael O’Leary has switched doors to manual. For years the fleet-of-mouth Ryanair boss automatically rejected 
pilots’ calls for unionisation. His shift to ingratiation this week — “Christmas flights are very important to our 
customers and we wish to remove worry or concern that they may be disrupted” — surprised the market, erasing 
€1.5bn of the carrier’s equity value. But the door pulsing red on Ryanair’s advent calendar was the 20th when pilots 
had threatened to strike unless the airline recognised their unions. And maintaining the festive grin on passengers’ 
faces is worth more to the airline than €1.5bn.
Ryanair’s mess-up over pilot rostering this autumn taught Mr O’Leary the price of a PR disaster, if he didn’t know it 
before. The bill for cancelling 700,000 bookings, reimbursing passengers and improving pilots’ packages to draw 
them back to the cockpit will be €125m-plus. That did not shift forecasts of €1.45bn in pre-tax profits this year. Even 
so Ryanair’s market value fell by more than €1bn in the autumn as well.
Stephen Furlong at stockbroker Davy points out the carrier’s ex-fuel costs per passenger of €27 — of which staff 
represent just €5 — are still half that of its nearest rival. Even if the outlay on employees rises to €6, Ryanair’s costs 
will be a lot lighter than competitors. 
The bigger factors for Ryanair remain fuel costs and consumers’ appetite for air travel. The group has plenty of 
legroom, even if its customers don’t.
Still, if Ryanair — already the biggest no-frills airline on the EU bloc — is to have 600 planes in the air carrying 
200m travellers by 2024, it needs the structures to fit and support from staff as well as customers. That may make 
Keeping festive grins is worth more to Ryanair than €1.5bn
investors, enjoying 30 per cent returns on invested capital last year, question the trajectory of future returns. But if 
unionisation is the price of a smooth take-off and landing, it is a toll that is worth paying.
Fair wage for day’s work 
Is the tide of opinion turning against formula-based long-term bonus schemes? asks Jonathan Ford. Following a 
slew of telephone-number payouts for bosses at the housebuilders Persimmon and Berkeley, the Financial 
Reporting Council has roused itself from its fireside slumbers to denounce “formulaic” pay awards. Boards should 
be able to overcome disproportionate outcomes, it harrumphs.
The question is whether these jackpots are a bug or a feature of the so-called LTIP system. Recent research from 
Professor Alexander Pepper of the London School of Economics suggests that apart from all the other problems 
(such as the focus on specific outcomes that can be gamed) the latter may indeed be the case. 
His findings show that executives are much more risk-averse than financial theory anticipates, preferring “fixed 
outcomes to risky, yet potentially more rewarding, alternatives”. In addition, they are “very high time discounters, 
typically marking down the value of complex long-term incentives at the rate of more than 30 per cent a year”. This, 
Pepper notes, reduces the perceived value of a three-year deferred incentive by 70 per cent. 
Given the trend towards ever more complex design (BP’s accounts, for instance, contain no less than 31 pages on 
executive pay), and ever longer vesting periods, it means schemes have to offer “ever larger pay offs to counter the 
reduced subjective values that executives attach to their awards”, according to Prof Pepper.
Presumably, if the FRC’s rules are enforced, that will ratchet up the discount rate further, pushing potential rewards 
up into increasingly bonkers territory. Time to end the madness and set a fair day’s pay for a fair day’s work.
Spirited purchase
Whisky is preferable with a dash of water, writes Jonathan Guthrie. So it is appropriate that fund manager Dalmore 
— which shares its name with a single malt — has splashed out on a 10.3 per cent stake in Anglian Water.
Investors in water utilities could all do with a dram to bolster their courage. Anglian does not emit the whiff of 
controversy that has emanated from poo-strewing Thames Water. But the sector faces nationalisation if the UK’s 
next prime minister is Jeremy Corbyn, who looks more of a Cuban rum kinda guy than a whisky drinker.
Might the Labour leader stay his hand knowing that Dalmore’s co-investor is GLIL Infrastructure, an infrastructure 
joint venture of five local government pension funds? Maybe not. But a bigger confiscation payout might be in order 
than if 3i, which now has a different take on infrastructure, was still on the register.
Anglers pursuing the fearsome pike in Anglian’s reservoirs over the winter sometimes pack a hip flask with the lures 
and deadbait. It is as cold out there now as it could become politically for private equity. 
kate.burgess@ft.com
jonathan.ford@ft.com jonathan.guthrie@ft.com
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair backs down in battle over pilot unions
Ryanair backs down in battle over pilot unions
 
FT.com
December 15, 2017 Friday 12:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 725 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Ryanair has reversed decades of policy to recognise pilot unions for the first time, in a significant concession aimed 
at averting strikes next week by cockpit crew at the start of the busy Christmas season.
Europe’s biggest airline by passenger number said it had written to pilot unions in several countries including 
Ireland, Britain, Germany and Italy, inviting them to start talks with a view to recognising the groups as official 
representatives.
“Christmas flights are very important to our customers and we wish to remove any worry or concern that they may 
be disrupted by pilot industrial action next week,” said Michael O’Leary,  Ryanair chief executive.
The move marks a capitulation by Mr O’Leary to unions he had vowed never to recognise in his 23 years at the 
helm of the Irish budget carrier. He has long castigated union efforts to establish a foothold in Ryanair and 
subjected them to withering criticism. 
“If the best way to achieve this is to talk to our pilots through a recognised union process, then we are prepared to 
do so, and we have written today to these unions inviting them to talks to recognise them and calling on them to 
cancel the threatened industrial action planned for Christmas week,” Mr O’Leary said in a statement. 
The letters also went to unions in Spain and Portugal. 
The shift by Ryanair follows a damaging scheduling crisis at the airline, which was triggered by a shortage of 
cockpit crew and a mess-up with pilot rotas. 
Ryanair backs down in battle over pilot unions
The debacle led to the cancellation of 20,000 flights and prompted a pilot backlash for higher pay and better 
employment terms. Ryanair offered to increase pay and improve job security in a move that would cost €100m a 
year, but it was met with a chilly response from some pilots. 
The airline had been facing fresh disruption as Dublin pilots served notice to strike on Wednesday. Italian pilots had 
threatened a stoppage on Friday afternoon — which was cancelled — and German pilots were also considering 
strike action. 
Italian government officials had been highly critical of Ryanair this week after it sought to dissuade employees from 
participating in a strike, but did not immediately comment on the airline’s move on Friday. 
“Ryanair initially thought it could function by ignoring the rights of its employees but now, faced with reality, it is 
opening its eyes,” said Antonio Piras, general secretary of FIT-CISL, which represents airline industry workers.
Impact, the Irish union that represents Dublin pilots, said on Friday that it was considering correspondence from 
Ryanair and would respond in due course. 
Mr O’Leary was not available to comment further on the move to unionisation. In his statement he said recognising 
unions would present “significant change” in Ryanair’s business. But he added that the carrier has delivered radical 
change before, citing the launch of its 2013 “always getting better” initiative to improve customer service. 
Eddie Wilson, Ryanair’s chief people officer, said the shift would lead to “pressure on costs” but declined to quantify 
any prospective increase. “We’re entering negotiations but the position here is that we’re 20 per cent ahead [of pilot 
pay at] the competition in Dublin and in Stansted,” he said. 
Ryanair hopes to agree new structures with pilots early in the new year. 
“[With] the size we’ve got to, things probably had to change and we always knew it and it’s now,” added Mr Wilson. 
“So people call it a climbdown and all that sort of thing but when it comes to it the worst thing you can do in 
business is have principles.”
He insisted the shift would not undercut Ryanair’s business model, saying: “It’s not the end of the model. The model 
here will stay the same.”
Dublin stockbroker Goodbody said the decision should be enough to avert strikes. 
“The pilots may not be entirely happy, but each countries’ unions will want to agree so that they will now be involved 
with Europe’s largest airline.” 
Campaigners called on Ryanair to allow unionisation beyond the ranks of its pilots. “This change is incomplete 
without the same recognition being afforded to all categories of workers, including cabin crew and ground-handling 
staff,” said Liz Blackshaw of the International Transport Workers Federation in London. 
Ryanair’s share price fell 1.3 per cent in morning trading to €16.18.
Additional reporting by James Politi in Rome
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to recognise pilot unions for first time in bid to avoid strikes
Ryanair to recognise pilot unions for first time in bid to avoid strikes
 
FT.com
December 15, 2017 Friday 9:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 505 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley
Body
Ryanair has abruptly reversed decades of policy to recognise pilot unions for the first time in a bid to avert strikes 
next week by cockpit crew at the start of the busy holiday season.
On Friday morning the company said it has written to the pilot unions in Ireland, Britain, Germany, Italy, Spain and 
Portugal inviting them to talks to recognise them as the representative body for Ryanair pilots.
“Christmas flights are very important to our customers and we wish to remove any worry or concern that they may 
be disrupted by pilot industrial action next week,” said Michael O’Leary, the Ryanair chief executive who has long 
castigated efforts by unions to establish a foothold in the company.
“If the best way to achieve this is to talk to our pilots through a recognised union process, then we are prepared to 
do so, and we have written today to these unions inviting them to talks to recognise them and calling on them to 
cancel the threatened industrial action planned for Christmas week.”
The move follows an damaging scheduling crisis at the airline in the autumn that led to the cancellation of 20,000 
flights and prompted a pilot backlash for higher pay and better employment terms.
Ryanair will recognise the unions in question once they establish committees of Ryanair pilots to deal with Ryanair 
issues as it insists it will “not engage with pilots who fly for competitor airlines in Ireland or elsewhere.”
The company called on pilot unions to call off the threatened strikes next Wednesday “so that our customers can 
look forward to travelling home for Christmas without the threat or worry of pilot strikes hanging over them.”
Ryanair to recognise pilot unions for first time in bid to avoid strikes
Mr O’Leary said recognising unions will present a “significant change” to its business, but he insisted that it has 
delivered radical change before launching its “always getting better” initiative in 2013 to improve customer service.
“Putting the needs of our customers first, and avoiding disruption to their Christmas flights, is the reason why we will 
now deal with our pilots through recognised national union structures and we hope and expect that these structures 
can and will be agreed with our pilots early in the new year.”
Dublin stockbroker Goodbody said it believed the move would not have “any impact” on a proposed pilot pay offer 
already on the table which is estimated to add €100mn to Ryanair’s cost case and is “already built in to market 
numbers”.
“However, the market may now worry over increased ‘complexity’ in the business and whether all of the 
management team would want to be involved in such a change.”
Goodbody noted that union recognition would be at country level and not to a single body representing all Ryanair 
bases around Europe, although it argued that the decision should be enough to move the situation forward and 
avert strikes.
“The pilots may not be entirely happy, but each countries’ unions will want to agree so that they will now be involved 
with Europe’s largest airline.”
Ryanair shares fell 1.3 per cent in morning action to €16.18.
Image source: Reuters
Load-Date: December 15, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair faces potential strikes in core markets
Ryanair faces potential strikes in core markets
 
FT.com
December 12, 2017 Tuesday 5:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 496 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
Ryanair is facing potential strike disruption in a number of its European markets as part of a growing push by pilots 
for better working conditions at the airline. 
On Tuesday,  Europe’s biggest carrier by passenger numbers was served notice of a one-day strike by some of its 
Irish-based pilots for December 20, while a German pilots union said it was also considering striking. 
Ryanair’s Italian pilots are planning to walk out for four hours on Friday in what would be the airline’s first strike by 
cockpit crew. 
The moves are part of a growing dispute between the airline and some of its pilots, who are calling for independent 
labour representation and better conditions.
Ryanair has spent the past few months fighting to fix the reputational damage caused after a rostering failure, which 
forced the company to cancel thousands of flights. Some pilots have been emboldened, leading them to push for 
unionisation.
The Irish Impact trade union said on Tuesday Irish-based that pilots employed directly by Ryanair, who are 
members of the Irish Airline Pilots’ Association, would walk out on December 20. It noted that most of these pilots 
would be captains. Of the 84 pilots that voted, 79 were in favour of industrial action, based on a 71 per cent turnout.
Ryanair said the “threatened action” represented less than 28 per cent of its 300 Dublin-based pilots. 
Ryanair faces potential strikes in core markets
“While some disruption may occur, Ryanair believes this will largely be confined to a small group of pilots who are 
working their notice and will shortly leave Ryanair, so they don’t care how much upset they cause colleagues or 
customers,” said the airline.
The group added that any Dublin pilots who participated in the strike would be in breach of their pilots base 
agreement and would lose pay benefits. 
In Germany, the Vereinigung Cockpit pilot union said Ryanair members were planning on taking a short so-called 
warning strike, which meant no ballot vote was necessary. It said discussions about the timing of the strike were still 
ongoing but said it would provide notice. A spokesperson for Anpac, the Italian pilot union, confirmed that its Friday 
walkout was going ahead. 
A spokesperson for Ryanair said it had received no notification of industrial action by its German pilots. It said it 
expected the threatened strike by Anpac would be postponed or cancelled. 
The Irish airline is in the middle of a pilot recruiting spree and has promised to improve the pay and conditions of its 
cockpit crew in an attempt to improve retention. 
However, Ryanair’s offer faces a chilly response from some pilots. Many have joined European unions, as well as 
forming an independent European Employee Representative Council to represent their views collectively to 
management.
They are asking for better working conditions and for its EERC to be the recognised representative body for Ryanair 
pilots. Ryanair only negotiates with Employee Representative Councils from individual bases, and does not 
recognise trade unions.
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Investors fret over Norwegian Air’s rapid growth
Investors fret over Norwegian Air’s rapid growth
 
FT.com
December 8, 2017 Friday 5:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1466 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London and Richard Milne in Oslo
Body
Earlier this year, budget airline Norwegian Air Shuttle painted the face of Freddie Laker, the late pioneer of “no-frills” 
flying, on one of its planes as a signal of its ambitions to crack the low-cost long-haul transatlantic market.
The fast-growing group has become a disruptive force within the European  airline industry over the past few years, 
leading the charge in bringing down the cost of long-haul flying and forcing rivals to respond with their own budget 
services.
But analysts and investors are starting to worry about Norwegian’s rapid expansion, after a difficult year.
“They are not profitable this year in what is a very good year for the airline industry,” says Andrew Lobbenberg, an 
aviation analyst at HSBC. “The underlying business is losing considerable sums of money. This is not sustainable, 
something has to change.”
Norwegian’s desire to lead the market in low-cost transatlantic flights has led to turbo-charged growth over the past 
five years.
In 2012 it was relatively small in Europe, with 68 aircraft flying 330 routes. But that changed after it placed a 
mammoth order the same year for more than 200 planes and laid out plans to bring no-frills flying to long haul.
By the end of 2017 Norwegian will have 145 aircraft operating on 512 routes. This year alone it is adding 32 planes 
to its fleet. By the end of 2019, the total fleet will have increased to 193 — a long way from its humble beginnings in 
1993 when it operated just three Fokker 50 aircraft on four domestic routes in Norway.
Investors fret over Norwegian Air’s rapid growth
The speed of its expansion is putting pressure on costs. Analysts point to a poor summer, with Norwegian reporting 
a 6 per cent rise in unit costs for the third quarter. That followed a dismal second-quarter cost performance, with an 
operating loss of NKr863m ($104m). 
Worries over Norwegian’s numbers have also hit its share price: it has dropped 40 per cent in the year. At the same 
time EasyJet shares have risen 44 per cent, Ryanair 19 per cent and IAG, which also offers long-haul flights, 42 per 
cent.
“[Norwegian Air’s] unit cost has been creeping up. For a low-cost airline that’s not really ideal,” says Jonathan 
Wober, analyst at CAPA — Centre for Aviation.
According to Bloomberg consensus forecasts, the combination of falling unit revenue and increasing unit costs will 
result in an operating loss this year of NKr1.482bn.
Hans-Marius Lee Ludvigsen, an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux, says Norwegian’s 2017 performance has been worse 
than expected, “particularly considering the rather profitable times among other European names in a year with low 
oil prices, low funding costs”. He adds: “This should have been a year for an airline to make money, really.”
Even in 2016, when Norwegian made an operating profit, its operating margin was 4.8 per cent — 16th of 28 listed 
European airline groups. This year, margin is forecast to fall to minus 4 per cent. 
“If Norwegian is not able to improve its operating margins going forward, if there’s a negative demand shock in the 
industry then there’s huge downside risks for them,” says Mr Ludvigsen. 
Leif Eriksrod, head of Norwegian equities at Alfred Berg, a top 20 investor in Norwegian, said it had been reducing 
its stake in the airline over the past year — from about 600,000 shares at the beginning of 2017 to about 230,000 
today because of concern over its performance. “The strategy is good but the execution is not. They need to focus 
more on operations,” he says. 
For many analysts, Norwegian’s problems come down to its glut of planes.
“They are growing too fast and they can’t execute it,” says Mr Lobbenberg. “They are currently doing whatever they 
can do to absorb the planes. They’ve started leasing some to Hong Kong Express, selling older aircraft, setting up 
an Argentine airline. It’s very much the tail wagging the dog in terms of the strategy, or more simply the entire 
strategy of the airline ends up being dictated by the fact they need to digest the aircraft order.”
Mr Wober agrees that while Norwegian’s starting principle — that there are a lot of underserved and overpriced 
long-haul markets — is true, the airline’s execution has yet to be “fully convincing”. 
The rapid fleet expansion has caused a big increase in net debt — from almost NKr3.8bn in 2012 to NKr21.1bn in 
2016. Mr Wober points to concerns over the balance street “getting more and more stressed”.
In September Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, said both Monarch, the UK’s fifth-biggest airline, and 
Norwegian were running out of cash and perhaps would not survive the winter. A month later, Monarch collapsed 
after it failed to find a buyer for some of its assets.
One of Norway’s most senior bankers says: “Norwegian are in trouble. They are over-extended and it’s clear that 
they have to do something.
“The danger with their business model is that their margins are pretty thin so they can’t afford too big problems.”
Norwegian could solve its problems by selling all the aircraft it owns, he says, but “they don’t want to do this as they 
believe there’s a lot of value locked up there”. 
Instead, he expects a series of smaller measures including increased leasing of planes and perhaps a capital 
raising. “They have to do something,” he adds. 
Investors fret over Norwegian Air’s rapid growth
Norwegian has defended its recent performance, stressing that it is “building for the future”.
Tore Ostby, Norwegian’s acting chief financial officer, notes that while its capacity growth will peak in 2018, it will 
then come down to more “sustainable” levels. “As we reach critical mass in long haul, I think we will prove to the 
market we have quite a strong set-up and the necessary scale to yield good returns,” he told the Financial Times.
Mr Ostby says Norwegian has a “number of things” it can do if it needs to strengthen its balance sheet, including 
selling additional older aircraft or further reducing the 17.5 per cent stake it owns in a Norwegian bank — both of 
which have helped the airline raise money this year.
Some analysts agree that fears are overblown and Norwegian is unlikely to succumb to a Monarch-like collapse.
“I would say their current scenario from a financial perspective is dangerous but not life threatening,” says Ross 
Harvey, analyst at Davy Stockbrokers. “The reason it is not life threatening is because they still own a large amount 
of aircraft in their fleet. With that equity, they still can perform a large number of sale and leaseback transactions.”
Jomar Kilnes, a portfolio manager at Forte Fondsforvaltning, a Norwegian shareholder, says the airline needs to 
reduce costs. “We do think they will succeed eventually. It’s been a bit of a rollercoaster but, in the long run, we 
think they’ll come true and it will pay off.”
However, analysts also agree that Norwegian will need to do something to improve its profitability if it is to make 
low-cost long-haul flights a sustainable business.
Established carriers rush to compete
After 50 years of failed attempts to make the low-budget transatlantic flight business work, the market finally seems 
to have taken off. 
Since 2013, Norwegian has used Boeing 787 Dreamliners for services between Europe and the US. Canada’s 
WestJet and Iceland’s WOW Air have also entered the market. 
Established carriers have rushed to protect their large market share in response. 
In June International Airlines Group, owner of British Airways, launched Level, a low-cost service that flies from 
Barcelona to four destinations, including Los Angeles. Last month it disclosed plans to expand to Paris Orly airport.
Meanwhile, Air France-KLM last week launched Joon for lower-cost long-haul flights, while Lufthansa continues to 
expand its “no frills” subsidiary Eurowings. 
While Norwegian and its peers have proved there is demand for cheap transatlantic flights, there continues to be 
concern about whether this business can be profitable in the long term.
For Norwegian, the use of new narrow-body aircraft could make a big difference. 
New technology means the next-generation narrow-bodies will be able to fly six to eight-hour routes at a lower cost 
than even the most fuel-efficient wide-bodies.
As well as the narrow-body Boeing 737 Max 8, which it started using this summer, Norwegian is planning to use a 
new long-range version of Airbus’s A321 to offer services between regional European airports and smaller US 
hubs.
But some remain sceptical. John Strickland, aviation consultant, noted that some of the new routes from regional 
European cities were likely to experience “significant seasonality with weakness in winter”, which he said could be a 
problem for profitability.
Investors fret over Norwegian Air’s rapid growth
It is clear, however, that airline groups are now focused on expanding this part of their business. Willie Walsh, chief 
executive of IAG, has signalled plans for Level’s fleet to rise to 30 by 2022, and expects the unit to be profitable this 
year. 
Load-Date: December 11, 2017
End of Document
Lufthansa : passenger pick ups
Lufthansa: passenger pick ups
 
FT.com
November 30, 2017 Thursday 8:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 438 words
Body
Berlin is poor but sexy, noted one of its former mayors. Judging by the fuss, the same can be said for its namesake 
airline. Lufthansa plans to buy up Air Berlin. The EU fears that Germany’s flag carrier will end up with too much 
market power. But the rest of the European aviation industry is likely to be quite relaxed about the prospect. 
In October, the German group agreed to buy half of Air Berlin’s assets for an estimated €210m, in a deal brokered 
by a government keen to minimise job losses in an election year, and to preserve as much German ownership as 
possible. The EU Competition Commission cannot ignore the implications of this move. Air Berlin would come with 
LGW, a domestic subsidiary, and Niki, an Austrian holiday airline, plus some aircraft. After bedding LGW down, the 
combined group’s market share within Germany would be 82 per cent. A quarter of Lufthansa’s internal routes 
would become monopolies, notes Condor, a subsidiary of Thomas Cook that has opposed the deal.
As a remedy, Margrethe Vestager, the EU competition commissioner, might well prefer that Lufthansa sell off Niki, 
or some other routes that may include valuable take-off and landing slots at airports such as Düsseldorf. Niki, as a 
standalone airline, would make for a simple sale — though analysts wonder whether it would survive on its own. 
Low-cost carriers such as Ryanair and easyJet will not care either way. Prices on domestic German routes have 
reportedly  risen at least a quarter since October when Air Berlin stopped flying. Ryanair has already expanded in 
Germany, with 10 aircraft based in Frankfurt from next summer, while easyJet awaits the review for its own deal to 
buy 25 planes from Air Berlin. These come with slots at Tegel, the Berlin airport business travellers prefer. Neither 
airline would welcome the continuation of irrational price competition from a floundering rival, whatever their public 
protestations about the carve-up.
Lufthansa : passenger pick ups
All this future revenue promise has made Lufthansa pretty alluring to punters, too. Its shares have soared 141 per 
cent this year, and more than 40 per cent since Air Berlin filed for insolvency in August. The German airline has had 
15 deals, including snapping up budget carrier Eurowings, reviewed by the EU since 2000. It is clearly pretty good 
at getting its way, and will most likely extend its record with a deal for Air Berlin.
Should the EU block Lufthansa’s deal with Air Berlin? Or would this deal eventually bring more airline competition 
throughout Europe? The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Please tell us what you think in the 
comments section below. 
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
UK airlines risk losing flying rights, says leaked Brexit paper
UK airlines risk losing flying rights, says leaked Brexit paper
 
FT.com
November 24, 2017 Friday 7:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 707 words
Byline: Alex Barker in Brussels
Body
EU Brexit negotiators are taking a tough stance on aviation that would dramatically restrict UK airline operating 
rights unless Britain follows the bloc’s laws and courts, according to leaked planning documents. 
The EU’s 27 remaining member states have begun preparing for talks on future EU-UK relations, outlining models 
of co-operation in aviation, fisheries and research that strictly adhere to precedents in existing arrangements with 
non-EU countries. 
In the area of aviation in particular, the European Commission sees little room for creativity or “bespoke” 
arrangement that the UK is hoping to negotiate, according to a presentation to the EU member states seen by the 
Financial Times. 
If Britain left the single market, the paper states, UK-owned airlines would automatically lose existing flying rights in 
Europe’s “fully liberalised” aviation market, and would no longer be entitled to EU recognition of approvals for parts 
or certificates for airworthiness.
Ownership restrictions would also apply, forcing groups such as Ryanair and International Airlines Group to buy out 
British shareholders to ensure they were 50 per cent owned and controlled by EU nationals, in order to continue 
operating routes within the EU. 
“UK red lines mean exit from the single market,” the commission presentation said. “All rights, obligations and 
benefits derived cease. No traffic rights — end of market access; ownership & control rules — third country 
UK airlines risk losing flying rights, says leaked Brexit paper
restrictions kick in; end of mutual recognition of certificates; end of participation in European Aviation Safety Agency 
(EASA).” 
“Air freedoms [are] granted by way of international agreement. What is not expressly agreed is prohibited,” the 
paper adds. 
If strictly applied in a no-deal Brexit scenario, such an approach would lead to the grounding of many UK flights — 
something British ministers have dismissed as scaremongering. The paper notes there are no World Trade 
Organisation fallback options for aviation and makes clear that “old bilateral agreements between member states 
and the UK are not revived”. 
The UK sees more scope for a closer relationship, even outside the remit of European courts. Chris Grayling, 
Britain’s transport minister, has said Britain is likely to remain a member of the EASA “at the end of the 
negotiations” and maintain similar flying rights.
“Does anybody seriously think the Spanish government, which would see hotel bookings collapse in 2019, is going 
to intervene to stop the planes flying? Of course they’re not,” Mr Grayling told the BBC. 
In an explanation of the types of aviation agreement possible, the commission paper notes that full market access 
— including “up to nine freedoms of the air” — would require “full transposition and application of the EU acquis [of 
aviation law]” and “alignment with European Court of Justice interpretation of EU acquis”. 
The business model of UK-based carriers currently relies on the full range of nine flying rights, including provisions 
that allow airlines such as EasyJet or British Airways to fly from Madrid to Berlin or from Milan to Rome. 
A second co-operation model outlined is based on the Common Aviation Area agreements with Georgia and 
Moldova. That model would only require partial application of EU law and no EU court rulings — more acceptable 
conditions for the UK government. 
But the commission argues that in this case, UK operators would be allowed to operate flights to or from EU 
destinations only if they start or end in Britain, the so-called third and fourth freedoms of the air. EU ownership 
restrictions would also apply. 
The third model identified by the commission negotiators would offer the type of market access enjoyed by US or 
Canadian airlines. These include lighter regulatory obligations and no role for European courts.
EasyJet and some other UK carriers have already begun to establish European offshoots in an attempt to minimise 
potential disruption after Brexit. 
Big European carriers such as Lufthansa and Air France see the potential to exploit Brexit talks to squeeze out 
budget carrier rivals such as EasyJet and Ryanair. Diplomats say France and Germany have taken firm positions 
on the requirements for UK access to the aviation market in preliminary discussions. 
Load-Date: November 28, 2017
End of Document
UK dividends: take cover
UK dividends: take cover
 
FT.com
November 24, 2017 Friday 2:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 302 words
Body
The Black Friday hypefest in the UK has prompted warnings of consumers stretching their finances. They are not 
alone. Dividend cover at British companies is surprisingly low, too.
On Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S estimates, half the FTSE 100 will pay a dividend covered less than two times by 
earnings. A July survey by the Share Centre said cover across the FTSE 350 was at its  lowest since 2009.
Five companies account for almost two-fifths of UK dividends. One is Vodafone, where forecast earnings of 7 pence 
a share are way short of the 13 pence forecast payout. 
But dividends are paid from cash flow, not earnings. Vodafone’s free cash flow is put at £4.4bn for the year to 
March 2018. That is ample to cover the £3.2bn total dividend. Even if it were not, borrowing to pay a dividend is do-
able for a year or so — as Royal Dutch Shell did last year, for instance. The oil group also reduced its cash outlay 
by paying in shares. A third of its $15bn dividends were in stock. The resulting dilution can, if needed, be mopped 
up by buybacks, which can be spread out. 
Special dividends are generally used for one-off distributions. But Ryanair pays them instead of regular dividends. It 
has returned €1.9bn in this way since 2008, arguing that it is a more appropriate mechanism for a cyclical industry. 
Better still is a payout ratio based on profit or free cash, rather than a progressive policy where dividends rise each 
year. BHP switched to a payout ratio in 2016. 
Many would love to see the back of Black Friday. Plenty of companies should think about ditching progressive 
dividends, too.
UK dividends: take cover
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Are progressive dividends risky and unaffordable, or do 
they represent a key commitment to shareholders? Please tell us what you think in the comments section below. 
Load-Date: November 28, 2017
End of Document
Where is the S in ESG investing?
Where is the S in ESG investing?
 
FT.com
November 22, 2017 Wednesday 5:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 689 words
Byline: Lara Blecher
Body
The Economist magazine published a piece in September that pointed to the increased consideration of 
environmental, social and governance factors in mainstream investing. The piece noted correctly that, for a variety 
of reasons, including ease of measurement, the E- and G-factors have gained more traction than the S-factor, 
which is often associated with employment rights. However, it is evident from recent events that mainstream 
investors would be unwise to discount the impact of S-factors on company performance strictly because of 
measurement difficulties.
Over the past few years, a number of companies — notably Sports Direct, and most recently Uber and Ryanair — 
have demonstrated poor social performance, and specifically poor employment practices. Sports Direct, the low-
cost sportswear retailer, has been held to the fire for poor treatment of staff at its Shirebrook facility in Derbyshire 
and zero-hour contracts. Uber, ride-sharing group, has been criticised for undercutting employment rights because 
of the way it contracts with its drivers. Ryanair, the low-cost airline, has had longstanding industrial-relations 
problems with its pilots. These examples of poor social performance have led or contributed, respectively, to volatile 
share price performance, loss of a legal license to operate in London (though this is under appeal), and a significant 
drop in passenger growth.
Developments such as these raise concerns for investors hoping to find investee companies that create 
shareholder value. This is because such practices lead to operational, legal, reputational and financial risks that 
create uncertainty for investors, and sometimes negative financial impacts. As a result, investors are increasingly 
looking for qualitative workforce metrics that can help explain quantitative measures such as employee turnover or 
spend on training. The Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association (PLSA), the UK trade body, and ShareAction, 
Where is the S in ESG investing?
the responsible investment campaign group, are developing two separate tools (Understanding the Worth of the 
Workforce and the Workforce Disclosure Initiative, or WDI) to assist with this type of analysis.
One particularly helpful qualitative metric is employee engagement. A common thread with Sports Direct, Uber and 
Ryanair is that these companies have not been liaising effectively with their workforces: Sports Direct with its 
warehouse and shop workers, Uber with its drivers and Ryanair with its pilots. Two important indicators of effective 
employee engagement are mutuality — the idea that employers and staff can negotiate terms and conditions of 
work that meet the needs of both parties — and evidence of integrating staff feedback into how a company 
operates.
One question investors could ask to determine mutuality is: does a company’s reporting reflect two-way 
communication between the employer and the workforce? To determine integration, investors could ask: does 
company policy — or better yet, practice — reflect any input from the workforce? Employee surveys can help on 
both fronts but often do not, as these surveys routinely fail to provide information that frames the employer-
workforce relationship in a meaningful way.
Neither mutuality nor integration has been evident at the three companies mentioned. It is important to recognise, 
though, that Sports Direct has taken steps this year to address claims it has failed to engage employees, notably 
appointing an employee representative to engage with its board. This move accords with the position of the Taylor 
Review, an independent investigation into Britain’s labour market, on employee engagement, and the UK 
government’s recent recommendation that companies strengthen “the voice of employees and other stakeholder 
interests at board level”.
While it might be harder to evaluate the S factors than the E and G factors in ESG, it is important to do so and is not 
as hard as originally suggested. A bit of thought about how to use qualitative metrics could go a long way, and is 
likely, quite literally, to pay dividends for investors.
Lara Blecher is engagement services executive at Pirc, the proxy adviser
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet enjoys boost to growth after collapse of rivals
EasyJet enjoys boost to growth after collapse of rivals
 
FT.com
November 21, 2017 Tuesday 1:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 579 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
EasyJet enjoyed a boost in growth due to the collapse of several of its rivals and problems at Ryanair that helped 
improve its fares outlook after a tough year in the cut-throat airline market. 
The company’s shares rose more than 6 per cent in morning trade after it signalled an easing in competitive 
pressures following the demise of Monarch and Air Berlin and the cut in capacity at Ryanair in the wake of the pilot 
roster problems. 
The low-cost carrier said it now expected revenue per seat, or RPS — a measure of fares — to increase by a low to 
mid-single digit percentage in the first half of the 2018 fiscal year.
However, the company posted a 17.3 per cent fall to £408m in headline pre-tax profits, excluding one-off costs, 
compared with the previous year, as it was hit by the drop in sterling and excess capacity in the market. 
Analysts also raised concerns over the company’s cost outlook. The airline said headline cost per seat excluding 
fuel and at constant currency was expected to increase by up to 1 per cent in 2018, largely down to crew and 
ground handling cost inflation. 
Dame Carolyn McCall, who is stepping down as chief executive at the end of the month after seven-and-a-half 
years to head up UK broadcaster ITV, said she was leaving easyJet in a good position. 
“If you look at the outlook, the trading momentum’s good, RPS is up for the first time in a couple of years given how 
hard the environment has been . . . it’s the best time to leave a company, it’s in good hands.” 
EasyJet enjoys boost to growth after collapse of rivals
Dame Carolyn said rises in the price of oil were likely to further help easyJet by placing pressure on weaker rivals. 
Analysts said the improving unit revenue trend was a “positive development”. 
“After several quarters of declining unit revenue trends, the market will be encouraged by this statement,” said 
Stephen Furlong at stockbroker Davy. 
Dame Carolyn said it was benefiting primarily from Monarch’s collapse, pointing to a 98 per cent overlap in routes 
with the carrier, which went into liquidation last month.
“There’s been a definite benefit and that’s what we’ve shown in the first half. This is the first time in about eight or 
nine quarters that we have guided to positive revenue trends for the first half,” she said. 
The results were published after a difficult year for European airlines, with intense competition and rising fuel prices 
ratcheting up the pressure and resulting in three carriers entering administration over the summer.
The airline’s new chief executive, Johan Lundgren, a former Tui director, will join on December 1 in the middle of a 
busy time for the low-cost airline. 
It is in the process of buying 25 aircraft and other assets from Air Berlin, which easyJet on Tuesday estimated 
would incur losses of about £60m in 2018 as well as £100m in one-off expenses. It is expected to become earnings 
accretive by the 2019 fiscal year. 
The company is also in the running to buy parts of Italian carrier Alitalia. It has already started moves to deal with 
the looming issue of Britain’s departure from the EU by setting up a European airline in Austria. 
Dame Carolyn said that while it was a busy time for the airline, she felt it was now spinning “manageable plates”. 
“It’s probably the easiest it’s been actually for quite a long time in terms of plates spinning because we chose to do 
Air Berlin. We know what we are doing, we are very, very strong at execution and therefore that’s in our control,” 
she added.
Additional reporting by Nicholas Megaw
.
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet aims to be among the last airlines standing
EasyJet aims to be among the last airlines standing
 
FT.com
November 21, 2017 Tuesday 8:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 823 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
As late-night Stansted habitués will attest, flight EZY217 to Glasgow is often the last one standing on the tarmac. 
But for operator EasyJet, being one of the last European low-cost airlines standing is anything but an 
inconvenience. 
In the seven years since Dame Carolyn McCall became chief executive, data from website protectmyholiday.com 
suggests the company has outlasted more than 100 rivals — including Monarch, Alitalia, Air Berlin, VLM, Moscow 
Airlines and Lufthansa Italia. Not to mention Norfolk Air. And, although Dame Carolyn is now boarding the shuttle 
bus for a new job at ITV, the staying power bodes well: after four years of falling fares, it means easyJet finally 
stands to benefit from less capacity in the short-haul market. 
Industry watchers have long known that, in the case of capacity, what goes up must come down. Low fuel prices 
may encourage operators to offer more seats but capacity logically hits an inflection point, where competition 
makes adding more unprofitable. It is impossible to plan for this but, as Europe’s second-largest low-cost airline 
after Ryanair, easyJet has been telling investors that the strong must get stronger — and the weak weaker — for 
some time. Now it knows when: 2018.
In Tuesday’s full-year results, easyJet projected that capacity growth in its markets would halve in the first half 
because of Monarch’s collapse, Alitalia’s administration and Ryanair’s staffing problems. In fact, some 98 per cent 
of Monarch’s grounded flights are from Luton and Gatwick airports, where it was in direct competition with EasyJet 
— which should now ease pressure on fares. And even when Monarch’s airport slots are sold or reallocated, that 
EasyJet aims to be among the last airlines standing
capacity is unlikely to return in full: rival Wizz Air may add Luton flights, but to eastern Europe not Alicante; IAG may 
add Gatwick flights but go longer haul than Lanzarote. 
With this reduction in competition, EasyJet forecasts its first increase in revenue per seat for two years. 
Analysts remain worried about costs, though, noting that a low-cost airline should not be expecting cost per seat to 
rise 1 per cent, excluding fuel. They also point out that the €40m acquisition of Air Berlin assets will result in £60m 
of losses next year, plus one-off costs of £100m, for aircraft and staff. UBS expects this to “weigh on the shares”. A 
bid for Alitalia assets and a need to set up an EU operation in Austria may be further excess baggage.
However, some of these costs are arguably what has kept EasyJet standing. Its forecast cost increase in 2018 is to 
pay staff and crew — an investment in people that Ryanair tried to save on, until it resulted in 20,000 cancelled 
flights. EasyJet should also benefit if costs rise including fuel — it has far more ability, and balance sheet, to hedge 
fuel costs than rivals. 
Shareholders may come to realise what Stansted passengers have known for ages: there is nothing wrong in being 
the last one standing, as long as you eventually take off.  
When Ashley met Mandy
A c£300m bid for Newcastle United football club from investment firm PCP Capital brings together two unlikely 
negotiators: down-to-earth sportswear entrepreneur Mike Ashley and upmarket financier Amanda Staveley. 
Lombard imagines their most recent telephone call. 
AS: Michael, yah, it’s Amanda. Look, my Middle Eastern investors think three hundred mill’s pretty generous.
MA: Mands! Why don’t you come down the Green Dragon and we’ll do this over a pint? They’ve even disinfected 
the fireplace since my last meeting.
AS: Tempting though that is, Michael we really need an answer. It’s three hundred with the performance clause. 
MA: Performance clause? You mean the Gulf geezers will only drop the full wad if we beat West Ham? Leave it 
out. 
AS: No, Michael, they will receive compensation if the team is relegated.
MA: Mandy, you are having a laugh. Did you see the Man United game? 
AS: I think you mean Manchester Town Rovers, Michael — I bought them for my dear friend Sheikh Mansour back 
in ’08, and he only paid £210m. Well, £210m excluding commission. 
MA: Mands, I’m telling you, this club’s a gold mine. And a national treasure. Like Sports Direct. People love it! It's 
not some poxy high street bank.
AS: Don’t bring Barclays into this. 
MA: Come on Mands, £350m and you can rename the team Newcastle United Arab Emirates for all I care. Help me 
out here! I daren’t go near the place ’cos the fans can’t stand the sight of me.
AS: Keep your shirt on, Michael. 
MA: Yeah, sorry, Mands.
AS: No, I mean literally keep your shirt on — in the stands. It might help.
Compass: fare enough
EasyJet aims to be among the last airlines standing
Richard Cousins has presented his last set of results as boss of caterer Compass, after 11 years and an 840 per 
cent return for shareholders. They will miss him — as may Tesco investors. He resigned as a director over its 
Booker takeover this year. But with some still questioning the deal, Tesco could arguably do with his food for 
thought.
matthew.vincent@ft.com
Load-Date: November 22, 2017
End of Document
‘People factor’ goes missing as PR dogfights hit airlines
‘People factor’ goes missing as PR dogfights hit airlines
 
FT.com
November 20, 2017 Monday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 849 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Body
The airline industry has been catapulted from one social media firestorm to another this year.
Ryanair is the latest carrier affected after it sparked a furore by cancelling 20,000 of its 800,000 flights between 
September and next March, angering passengers and regulators. The Irish airline, Europe’s biggest by passenger 
numbers, blamed the snag on a rostering failure that left it short of pilots.
The problem was made worse by the company’s initial reaction: the first, abrupt cancellation of 2,000 flights in 
September, with little or no notice, led to a torrent of criticism.
It disrupted the travel plans of 315,000 customers but Ryanair alarmed all its 18m passengers who had been due to 
travel in the following six weeks by failing to specify affected flights at the outset.
Ryanair’s public relations disaster came months after customers of British Airways gave it a roasting for an IT 
systems failure on a bank holiday weekend in May, which stranded 75,000 passengers. A month previously, a video 
clip taken on a flight by US airline United Continental made international news: it showed a passenger being 
removed violently by airport police in Chicago. The flight had been overbooked and the carrier needed to make 
room for crew members who had to be on standby.
These incidents have added to public anger at many aspects of air travel, especially the proliferation of fees for 
changing flights, checking bags and even carry-on luggage.
‘People factor’ goes missing as PR dogfights hit airlines
They also raise the question of whether the industry, which is viewed as a model with regard to flight safety, is 
struggling with general commercial operations.
“I think ultimately that airlines are good at controlling the risk that can be controlled. Unfortunately, one of the 
biggest risks is the employee and passengers,” says John Grant of JG Aviation Consultants.
He notes that customer-facing staff are “the face of an airline” and can “make or break” the long-term view of the 
company. “Now compare that with a highly sophisticated machine full of the latest technology, armed with lots of 
diagnostic equipment to alert people to potential breakdown,” says Mr Grant. “The absence of a brain and personal 
agendas makes a huge difference.”
While the three incidents were different, human error played a part in each. BA blamed its power outage on a 
technician employed by an outside supplier who shut down the “uninterruptible power supply” in a plant room at its 
London data centre.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair chief executive, admitted that the budget carrier mishandled the initial communication of 
its flight cancellations. He also said it “could have responded sooner to a tightening market” for experienced flight 
officers. Since its rostering debacle, Ryanair has brought in new operations management and added resources to 
its pilot recruitment and rostering teams.
United Continental’s dilemma was made worse by its initial tone-deaf statements that deflected legal blame while 
doing little to prevent brand damage; this was followed by ever more abject apologies that failed to assuage public 
anger.
Aviation commentators believe employee risk has increased owing to the trend for airlines to outsource functions 
that range from reservations to customer support to ground handling.
Andrew Charlton, a Geneva-based aviation analyst, says airlines are both capital intensive and people intensive, 
making the scope for good decision-making much harder.
“Add to that the fact that we pay the people on whom we most rely (flight attendants, check-in agents etc) the least 
and you can start to see the issues,” he says.
“This also then extends to the need for expertise at very high levels of the operations: the chief pilot and the chief of 
ground operations and the head of maintenance are all regulated positions, so that is it difficult to get cross-
company expertise and experience even at quite high management levels.”
BA’s problem was compounded by its inability to email customers. Its systems were affected by the power outage.
John Strickland, a London aviation consultant, notes that the move to automation has risks.
“As we become more automated, what is the fallback system if most, if not all, of your automated systems are 
offline?” asks Mr Strickland.
“How do you communicate? In the past, not even five to 10 years ago, there would be more human intervention and 
less reliance on automation than there is today.”
Others note that airlines’ high focus on safety remains the priority in an industry that has long struggled with 
profitability.
“Operating a complex business this safely is expensive,” says John Luke, partner in KPMG’s transport practice. 
“Airlines have endured long periods of losses and negligible profitability. So, as with many businesses, when there 
is cost pressure something has to give.
“In the airline sector that cannot be safety or hardware, so maybe more likely it ends up being the customer 
service.”
‘People factor’ goes missing as PR dogfights hit airlines
Mr Luke adds that when disruption occurs, it may be how each airline deals with the event — rather than the event 
itself — that many customers remember. “Customer loyalty can actually be won in such circumstance,” he says.
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Best practice needs the human touch
Best practice needs the human touch
 
FT.com
November 20, 2017 Monday 6:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1204 words
Byline: Brian Groom
Body
At the heart of most corporate crises lie the risks involved in managing people. After a host of scandals during the 
present century, companies recognise that policies and procedures count for very little if they ignore the human 
element. Efforts to tackle the matter are being made, yet disasters keep coming.
Whether it is the Harvey Weinstein scandal, which has exposed sexual abuse that goes beyond the entertainment 
and media industries, Ryanair’s debacle over pilot rosters or the collapse of public relations consultants Bell 
Pottinger over controversial work by staff in South Africa, companies face reputational or financial damage if they 
do not get people matters right.
“People risk” can range from deliberate acts of fraud or sabotage to failure to follow rules, poor training, strategic 
miscalculations or someone opening a virus-infected email. Globalisation and technological change add complexity 
to the risks companies face and the speed with which problems can escalate.
Credit-checking group Equifax this year blamed “human error and technology failure” for one of the largest data 
breaches in history, affecting more than 145m people in the US alone. Its former boss said a single individual had 
failed to communicate to the IT team that a software patch needed to be applied. Lawmakers accused it of shoddy 
practices.
Japan has had a string of disasters, from Kobe Steel (faked quality certification) to Nissan (unqualified vehicle 
testers), Takata (exploding airbags) and Toshiba (accounting scandal). Analysts blame a culture of hiding mistakes, 
compounding human weaknesses.
Best practice needs the human touch
The effects of risk management problems can be long-lasting. Volkswagen’s diesel emissions scandal, for example, 
has led not only to millions of cars being recalled and billions in fines, but has also damaged confidence in 
Germany’s engineering excellence and thrown the future ofdiesel vehicles into question.
The purpose of risk management, however, is to allow risk to be taken safely. Innovation depends on risk. “The 
outcome of great people risk management is the success and resilience of the business,” says John Ludlow, chief 
executive of Airmic, a UK association of corporate risk and insurance managers. Mr Ludlow believes companies 
have improved their people risk management, but there is more to do.
He says leaders need to define the corporate culture and standards of behaviour, and improve capabilities in 
technology and processes. They also need to build trust among customers, suppliers and employees.
Technology brings fresh questions, such as how ethics policies will work in the cyber world. “If you think about kids 
and cyber bullying, do you think adults are going to be any different?” asks Mr Ludlow. “Relationships are more 
detached and I think people will feel naturally easier about bullying another company with which they just have a 
digital relationship.”
Research by Cranfield School of Management for Airmic identified five principles needed to achieve resilience: the 
ability to anticipate problems; adequate resources to respond to changing conditions; a free flow of information up 
to board level; the capacity to respond quickly to an incident; and a willingness to learn from the experience.
Hersh Shefrin, professor of finance at Santa Clara University in California, believes companies are not taking 
sufficient heed of the behavioural roots of risk-taking. “What we know from psychological advances in the last 40 
years is that people are highly imperfect when it comes to making judgments about risk,” Prof Shefrin says. “It’s 
important to understand how to improve decision-making, to identify vulnerabilities, by bringing together the 
quantitative tools of risk management with the qualitative psychological perspective.”
For individuals, he says the problem usually starts with a bias towards excessive optimism, where people expect 
the future to be rosier than it is likely to be, and overconfidence, where they are too sure of their capabilities and 
tend to under-assess risks. In organisations, there is a tendency towards collective biases such as groupthink, 
where people reinforce and magnify individual biases.
Prof Shefrin says insights into how to handle these questions are contained in the work of psychologists Amos 
Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, popularised in Michael Lewis’s book The Undoing Project, but their ideas are not 
being put into practice in a systematic way.
“We have pockets where we see improvement, driven by a tone at the top. But biases and psychological 
vulnerabilities are deep-seated and hard-wired within us,” he says.
Tackling all of this starts with corporate leaders: the boss can sometimes be the biggest risk-taker. Travis Kalanick, 
founder of ride-hailing app Uber, was ousted as chief executive in June after a series of problems, including sexism 
and lawsuits over stealing trade secrets that many saw as derivingfrom the macho culture he engendered.
The financial sector, which experienced behavioural scandals in the aftermath of the financial crisis, has 
changedhow it recruits, trains, pays and monitors people. But problems still occur.
Wells Fargo is still suffering from a scandal last year in which employees created hundreds of thousands of fake 
customer accounts. The US bank has replaced its chief executive, reshuffled its board, changed a string of senior 
executives and distanced itself from the aggressive culture of cross-selling it said had fed the deception.
“Financial firms are getting better at managing people risk, but it’s usually because someone has experienced a 
very bad incident, or because they have been regulated to do it,” says Nicola Crawford, chair of the Institute of Risk 
Management, which has members in more than 100 countries.
Best practice needs the human touch
An important aspect of managing people risk is enabling staff to challenge existing practices, yet the application is 
patchy. Jes Staley, chief executive of Barclays, the UK bank, was censured for attempting to unmaska 
whistleblower.
David Hillson, a consultant and author of The Risk Management Handbook, doubts whether progress has been 
made in managing people risk. “People have been looking for quick wins but I think the area is quite confused. If 
you look at what’s been written by some of the big consultancies and professional bodies, the guidelines are 
conflicting in terms of definitions and proposed responses,” he says.
Many companies now have safeguards in place, such as enterprise risk management (ERM) systems, and there is 
a global standard for risk management: ISO 31000. These can, however, create a false sense of security.
Yves Duhaldeborde, director of talent and rewards at consultancy Willis Towers Watson, points out that data are 
available via psychometric testing and staff surveys, which organisations can use to track risk propensity. 
“Organisations can do a better job with the data they have, calling data sources together and learning more in a 
positive way about employees,” he says. Mr Duhaldeborde says companies put effort into employee engagement 
but “the people element is the toughest one to assess and control”. He adds: “You always have employees who 
may be disgruntled, are not fully satisfied with their job, or feel they have not been treated fairly.”
Load-Date: November 20, 2017
End of Document
Kelleher was the true father of low-cost airlines
Kelleher was the true father of low-cost airlines
 
FT.com
November 9, 2017 Thursday 5:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 115 words
Body
Sir, Thank you for the excellent article on aircraft leasing (“Dublin on a high as China aviation sector surges”, 
November 6). However, I am sure that Tony Ryan would agree if he could that Herb Kelleher, who founded 
Southwest Airlines together with a friend, was the true father of low-cost airlines.
The story goes that Kelleher drew out the business plan as a triangle of cities in Texas while dining with the friend in 
a San Antonio restaurant. The rest is of course history. The key to Ryanair’s success is in part Ryanair chief 
executive Michael O’Leary’s realisation that Europe was waiting for a Southwest-style airline after he visited them in 
the US.
Peter Boot
Portola Valley, CA, US
Load-Date: November 9, 2017
End of Document
Chinese fire up Irish aviation finance market
Chinese fire up Irish aviation finance market
 
FT.com
November 6, 2017 Monday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1405 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
One of Ireland’s most established markets is experiencing a renewed burst of growth. 
As China’s aviation sector expands rapidly to meet surging domestic demand for air travel, Dublin is emerging as a 
major hub for Beijing’s growing ambitions in the aircraft leasing market.
Eighteen groups from the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong are using the Irish capital as a strategic bridgehead in 
their push for a bigger share of the $261bn global market.
With about half the world’s leased aircraft managed from Dublin and most leading lessors long present in the city, 
Ireland is a global aviation finance centre. 
But China’s build-up marks a new turn in a booming market whose guiding light was Tony Ryan, the Irish tycoon 
who made his first fortune leasing aircraft in the 1970s and then went on to co-found Ryanair.
Ireland offers international lessors big tax advantages, although it is facing fresh competition from Hong Kong and 
Singapore as these cities look to woo business with new tax incentives.
The flood of Chinese capital into Dublin also comes despite Beijing’s crackdown on overseas dealmaking, which 
has prompted speculation that China is playing a long game to harness leasing expertise abroad before moving the 
industry home. 
Chinese companies rely heavily on local managers and professional services firms in Ireland.
Chinese fire up Irish aviation finance market
Globally, the market is also enjoying a big boostfrom Chinese capital, but this has sparked some concern that a 
growing pool of money may be chasing too few leasing assets, putting the sector at risk of a bubble bursting. 
Industry analyst FlightGlobal estimates the capital deployed by aircraft lessors has grown by 51 per cent to $261bn 
over the past 10 years — of which $71bn has come from Chinese sources. 
Significantly, close industry observers note a rise in prices and compression of yields on second-hand aircraft, 
saying some Chinese operators may not be properly pricing risk.
Adam Pilarski, senior vice-president at consultants Avitas near Washington DC, warns that an “unreasonably good 
situation” in global leasing could be upended by recession, disruption to trade under Donald Trump’s “America first” 
policy and other risk factors such as rising interest rates. 
Although Mr Pilarski acknowledges his outlook is “contrarian”, he says: “There’s a lot of new money that is coming 
in. These people have never lived through a downturn.
“We know why we had this over-ordering and this proliferation of people coming in: because we had this cheap 
money that can’t make good returns and aircraft are sexy and promise to make good returns. 
“You also had new players who want to enter it, the Chinese for example but also the Middle Easterners . . . You 
have a bubble and you are waiting for the prick.” 
But China, driven by its own ever-increasing market for air travel, continues to push to the fore. The International Air 
Transport Association believes China is on track to displace the US as the world’s biggest aviation market by 2022, 
earlier than foreseen and fuelling rising demand for leased aircraft. 
In Ireland, the biggest Chinese move by far in leasing came in 2015 when HNA Group, the Hainan conglomerate, 
acquired Dublin-based Avolon, only nine months after its New York Stock Exchange flotation. 
The next year Avolon bought the leasing arm of US-based CIT Group, doubling Avolon’s size and catapulting its 
€19bn portfolio to number three in the global industry. 
This marks rapid progression for Avolon since its origins in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, yet Dómhnal 
Slattery, chief executive and founder, wants to go further still. 
“Our aspiration is to be the number one player in world markets, which in simple terms would mean that we 
probably would need to double the size of the business again over the next five years,” he says. 
“Given our scale now we’re more likely to pursue one other large acquisition, rather than a series of small 
ones . . . and my sense is that the next acquisition will happen probably when the industry is in a bit more distress 
or stress.” 
Other Chinese mainland and Hong Kong lessors are also making inroads in Dublin. Groups such as Industrial and 
Commercial Bank of China, China Development Bank, Bank of China Aviation, Bank of Communications, Goshawk 
and Accipiter are expanding in the city. 
FlightGlobal data show that more than 1,100 Chinese-owned aircraft are managed from Dublin, about a quarter of 
the 4,300-strong global leasing fleet in Ireland. 
Pat Hannigan, chief commercial officer in Dublin for CDB Aviation, an arm of China Development Bank, says the 
company has 200 aircraft, another 200 on order and a mandate to grow.
“There is no doubt about it that the Chinese are interested in this sector, have taken to this sector and they now 
want to go to the next level basically, which is what they’re doing. They also want to expand our portfolio 
internationally and build our team,” he says. 
Chinese fire up Irish aviation finance market
Although Ireland’s low 12.5 per cent corporate tax rate is a keystone of an economic strategy that has drawn 
legions of multinationals to the country, the linchpin for lessors is Dublin’s network of double-taxation treaties with 
more than 70 countries.
Global airlines that lease from Ireland pay less withholding tax upfront thanks to these treaties, boosting the 
business case to trade from Dublin in a sector that makes low profit margins on very large assets. This provides 
greater flexibility to Chinese lessors, whose growing involvement in the international market also increases access 
to dollar revenues. 
All of that comes on top of a 40-year record that dates back to Ryan’s pioneering days in the industry, meaning that 
a large network of finance, debt issuance and accounting expertise is well-established in the city. 
“Tax advisers, legal advisers, they’re all in Dublin and have been for many years,” says Ruth Kelly, chief executive 
of Goshawk, a lessor owned by Hong Kong’s Chow Tai Fook Enterprises and NWS Holdings, which has a $5.8bn 
portfolio of 114 aircraft under management or on order. “The quality and quantity of [double taxation] treaties would 
be better than anything in Hong Kong or mainland China.” 
Aircraft leasing sustains about 1,200 Irish jobs and the wider aviation sector contributes about €4bn to the national 
economy. 
But Paul Sheridan, chief of Accipiter, another Hong Kong lessor in Dublin, says a key challenge now is for Ireland to 
ensure it stays competitive. “Ireland is in a really strong position. It has done really well but it does mean other 
people will inevitably try and repeat the trick.”
There is no shortage of bullish growth forecasts for Chinese aviation. Whether the market can sustain its rapid 
growth will determine the fate of the country’s lessors in Ireland. 
Aircraft leasing was Ryan brainchild
Ireland’s expanding aircraft leasing market has its origins in a company called GPA, the brainchild of businessman 
Tony Ryan, which became a global force in the 1970s and 1980s from its base at Shannon in the west of the 
country. 
Ryan, who died in 2007, is better known today as co-founder of Ryanair, the Irish budget carrier that is now 
Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers.
In its day, however, GPA was a pioneering business that became the world’s largest lessor at a time when the 
nascent sector was achieving global scale. 
But GPA overstretched itself. Plans for a flotation of GPA in 1992 ended in spectacular failure, leaving the business 
in a precarious financial state. Its assets were later acquired by GE, whose aircraft leasing arm GECAS is now the 
world’s second-largest. 
Still, GPA was a hothouse for a new breed of Irish business people who went on to establish Dublin as a global 
centre for aviation finance. Many remain in the leasing business to this day. 
Ryanair remains Ryan’s biggest legacy, says his biographer Richard Aldous, who adds that the airline “was almost 
like a hobby for him” at the outset. 
The business was established in the 1980s to exploit the deregulation of Europe’s airlines when Ryan was at the 
height of his powers in GPA. 
“After the [failed flotation], Ryanair is the thing that allows him to have another go. He effectively in the European 
context creates two industries. He invents the aircraft leasing model in Europe and the low-cost airline model. 
That’s his legacy,” says Mr Aldous. 
Chinese fire up Irish aviation finance market
Arthur Beesley
Letter in response to this article:
Kelleher was the true father of low-cost airlines / From Peter Boot, Portola Valley, CA, US
Load-Date: November 26, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair maintains full year profit target despite €100m pilot pay increase
Ryanair maintains full year profit target despite €100m pilot pay increase
 
FT.com
October 31, 2017 Tuesday 6:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 425 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley
Body
Pilot pay increases at Ryanair will add as much as €100m to the airline’s annual cost base but the company has 
insisted the rostering crisis that led to 20,000 flight cancellations will not undermine its profit forecast this year. 
Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers said in results for the first half of its fiscal year that full-year traffic 
will slow to 129m customers from 131m, with fares down less than forecast previously. But the company is taking 
the benefit of higher ancillary revenues and a lower fuel bill.
“We see no reason to alter our full year profit after-tax guidance which remains in a range of €1.40bn to €1.45bn,” 
Ryanair said on Tuesday.
Profit after tax in the six months to September grew 11 per cent to €1.29bn as revenue rose 7 per cent to 4.43bn. 
The net profit margin was 29 per cent, 1 percentage point higher than a year earlier.
We will now move from being ‘competitive’ to offering materially higher (over 20 per cent) pay with better career 
prospects, superior rosters, and much better job security than Norwegian, among others, can offer.We expect 
these measures, if/when accepted by all our pilot bases, will add some €45m to our [2018 fiscal year] crew 
costs (and up to €100m in a full year) but will not significantly alter the substantial unit cost advantage we have 
over all other EU airline competitors.
The airline sparked a furore this autumn with cancellation of 20,000 of its 800,000 flights between September and 
March, angering passengers and regulators. The move followed a rostering mess-up when a scheduled regulatory 
Ryanair maintains full year profit target despite €100m pilot pay increase
shift from counting crew flying hours over a calendar year – instead of its April-March fiscal year – left the airline 
short of standby pilots.
Amid heightened tensions with pilots, the airline has intensified pilot recruitment and increased pay for existing and 
new cockpit crew. But the pay offer has met a chilly response from some crew with pilots at Stansted, Ryanair’s 
largest base, voting against the proposal.
Ryanair has previously estimated a €50m cost arising from the flight cancellations and it has slowed growth plans 
for winter and next summer.
The first, abrupt cancellation of 2,000 flights in September with little or no notice led to a torrent of criticism of the 
airline. The move disrupted the travel plans of 315,000 customers but Ryanair alarmed 18m passengers due to 
travel with the airline in the six-week period by failing at the outset to specify all the affected flights. A second round 
of cancellations saw a further 18,000 flights grounded.
Photo: Reuters
Load-Date: October 31, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair warns of lower passenger growth and higher pilot costs
Ryanair warns of lower passenger growth and higher pilot costs
 
FT.com
October 31, 2017 Tuesday 9:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 860 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin 
Body
Ryanair warned of lower passenger growth next year and €100m in higher annual pilot costs after the rostering 
crisis that led to the cancellation of 20,000 flights, but the airline insisted the debacle would not undermine its profit 
forecast this year.
The Irish budget carrier on Tuesday cut traffic forecasts for the next fiscal year to March 2019 from 142m to 138m 
and said the grounding of 25 aircraft this autumn would see projected full-year traffic in the current fiscal year to 
March 2018 ease from 131m to 129m. 
In highly anticipated first-half results after the rostering affairand cockpit crew defections left Ryanair short of pilots 
this autumn, the airline said pay increases to pilots would add €45m to crew costs in the current fiscal year and 
€100m in the following fiscal year.
Shares in Ryanair rose 4.9 per cent to €16.58 in early morning trade.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, said on Tuesday that the airline “could have responded sooner to a tightening 
market” for experienced flight officers and said Ryanair had hired 900 pilots this year. 
But Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers said the cancellations debacle would have no impact on its 
profit projection this year as it continued to reap the benefits of higher ancillary revenues and a lower fuel bill. 
“We see no reason to alter our full-year profit after-tax guidance which remains in a range of €1.4bn to €1.45bn,” Mr 
O’Leary said. 
Ryanair warns of lower passenger growth and higher pilot costs
 Ryanair has invested in new operations management and has added resources to its pilot recruitment, base 
manager and rostering teams, he added. 
“The test of any management team is the speed and effectiveness with which they respond to a crisis, and the pilot 
rostering failure in early September was just such a crisis. 
“We have responded quickly to repair this failure, eliminate further cancellations and we are determined to invest 
the time, money and manpower to ensure that it never recurs.”
Post-tax profit in the six months to September rose 11 per cent to €1.29bn as revenue increased 7 per cent to 
€4.43bn. The airline makes the bulk of its profit in the summer months and the rostering crisis emerged only in mid-
September. 
The net profit margin was 29 per cent, 1 percentage point higher than a year earlier. Basic earnings per share rose 
16 per cent to €1.07. 
The airline sparked a furore this autumn with the cancellation of 20,000 of its 800,000 flights between September 
and March, angering passengers and regulators. A scheduled regulatory shift from counting crew flying hours over 
a calendar year — instead of its April-March fiscal year — left the airline short of standby pilots. 
After also losing pilots to rival carriers such as Norwegian, Ryanair responded to the debacle by intensifying pilot 
recruitment and increasing pay for existing and new cockpit crew. 
“We will now move from being ‘competitive’ to offering materially higher (over 20 per cent) pay with better career 
prospects, superior rosters and much better job security than Norwegian, among others, can offer,” said Mr 
O’Leary.
“We expect these measures, if/when accepted by all our pilot bases, will add some €45m to our [2018 fiscal year] 
crew costs (and up to €100m in a full year) but will not significantly alter the substantial unit cost advantage we have 
over all other EU airline competitors.”
But the pay offerhas been met with a chilly response from some crew with pilots at Stansted, Ryanair’s largest 
base, voting against the proposal. 
Mr O’Leary said Stansted pilots could reconsider their position or vote again at any time but the airline, which does 
not recognise unions, said it would not negotiate with a new joint European Employee Representative Council, 
saying it would deal only with representative councils at its individual bases. Pay agreements have already changed 
at more than 10 of the airline’s 84 bases, he said. 
The chief executive dismissed speculation about pilots planning to take industrial action, saying it was not backed 
up by facts and that the group’s relationship with pilots remained “very good”. However, he added that if there was 
industrial action, there would be “consequences” that would see it move aircraft out of certain bases, adding the 
“consequences will not be to the advantage of those pilots”.
Ryanair said it was 2 per cent better booked than this time last year but at lower fares. It expected full-year fares 
this year to drop between 4 per cent and 6 per cent, saying that was slightly better than previous guidance of fare 
declines between 5 per cent and 7 per cent. Full-year unit costs are forecast to drop 2 per cent this year but will rise 
3 per cent when stripping out the impact of fuel cost declines. 
Mr O’Leary remains concerned about Brexit, saying there is a “worrying risk of a serious disruption” to UK-EU flights 
in April 2019 unless a timely UK-EU bilateral is agreed by September 2018. 
“We, like other airlines, need clarity on this issue before we publish our summer 2019 schedules in mid-2018 and 
time is running short for the UK to develop a bilateral solution. We worry that the UK government continues to 
underestimate the likelihood of such a flight disruption to/from the UK.” 
Ryanair warns of lower passenger growth and higher pilot costs
Load-Date: November 1, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair : pilot lite
Ryanair: pilot lite
 
FT.com
October 31, 2017 Tuesday 3:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 431 words
Body
Bums on seats. Not just in the cabin; on the flight deck, too. If Ryanair previously treated pilots as a pricey 
inconvenience, it is making up for it now, devoting a portion of its second-quarter statement to explaining how fair 
and generous their new remuneration arrangements are. 
On Tuesday, the Irish carrier published its first set of a results since a crew rostering debacle led to the cancellation 
of thousands of flights and caused its punctuality to fall to just 70 per cent in the first half of the year. 
The impact was readily apparent: one-off charges for extra payments to unhappy customers will tot up to €25m. 
Wage rises, if all bases agree to the terms, could be as high as €100m annually to redress Ryanair’s thin pilot 
rosters. That presumes, of course, that all the pilot crews at its 86 airport bases throughout Europe sign up to the 
new pay packages. Ryanair negotiates with its teams locally, avoiding unionisation. So far only 10 bases have 
agreed to contracts which potentially offer up to a fifth more than rivals such as Jet2 and Norwegian Air. Pilots at 
Stansted, its biggest base, have not done so yet.
Ryanair says it had already begun hiring, lifting pilot numbers even since the roster crisis broke. Certainly there 
should be more supply around after the demise of Monarch Airlines this month. It had 400 pilots under its wing, 
according to the British Airline Pilots’ Association. Many of these were already being retrained by Monarch to fly 
Boeing 737s, which are the mainstay of the Ryanair fleet. 
The pay boost, the recruitment drive and the reparations to some of the 700,000 unhappy customers who suffered 
flight cancellations in September, might cause a Ryanair shareholder to sit back with a groan. No need. Barring a 
major decline in revenues, these higher costs should be easily absorbed. Even in the unlikely scenario that 
Ryanair’s air crew wage bill doubled, on Bernstein estimates, its unit costs would still be less than half of its 
Ryanair : pilot lite
European rivals. It pointedly did not change its full-year earnings outlook. Its shares, down as much as a fifth since 
peaking in mid-August, jumped 7 per cent.
Ryanair has spent the past two years softening its brash image by cuddling up to its customers. Management will 
now have to  blow some of those kisses towards their flight crews instead. Luckily for investors, Ryanair can afford 
the extra love.
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Are you surprised that the rostering crisis did not come 
with greater financial costs? Please tell us what you think in the comments section below. 
Load-Date: November 1, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: Ryanair counts the cost of cancellations
Opening Quote: Ryanair counts the cost of cancellations
 
FT.com
October 31, 2017 Tuesday 8:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1379 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Ryanair used to pride itself on using the media to generate publicity for its low-cost flights by providing reporters 
with a series of outrageous stories. In 2009, chief executive Michael O’Leary even managed to unite the Guardian 
and Daily Mail in po-faced outrage over supposed plans to charge passengers £1 to spend a penny.
How times change.
Ryanair has seemingly refused to hold a media call for its half-year results after stories of passenger outrage over 
cancelled flights. In 2017, Mr O’Leary has found himself making po-faced apologies for grounding more than 20,000 
scheduled flights because of a mess-up with staff rotas, as well as delaying plans to charge passengers £5 to carry-
on cabin bags.
Today’s results suggest why the boss might have turned media shy.
Mr O’Leary warned that ex-fuel unit costs in the first half would rise by €25m to cover compensation to the affected 
passengers, and the airline would incur €45m of additional pilot costs – from being forced to offer more pay to pilots 
– as a result of the September rostering failure.
In addition, he said the decision to ground 25 aircraft meant second half growth would slow to 4 per cent, down from 
11 per cent in the first half, with passenger numbers falling from 131m to 129m customers.
Opening Quote: Ryanair counts the cost of cancellations
Analysts had previously allowed for an extra €50m cost for the flight cancellations, but noted that these results 
would not show the full extent of the problem, as the cancellations only started in the last two weeks of September. 
They said the full-year outlook would be key – and so it has proved.
An exodus of pilots to rival Norwegian Air has forced Ryanair to move from being “competitive” to offering 
“materially higher” pay – which will actually add €100m to costs in the full year.
That is at the very top end of the €70-€100m in additional costs estimated by Goodbody analysts. And analysts at 
Bernstein believe there may be even more costs to provide alternative transportation for customers whose flights 
were cancelled more than two weeks in advance: in the mid two-digit millions range.
Still, Ryanair insisted that these costs will not undermine its €1.40bn to €1.45bn profit forecast for the full year.
And, this morning, the airline got its excuses in early. It blamed a “perfect storm” of one-off pilot shortages due to 
over-allocated annual leave, a bottleneck of over 200 new recruits, and insufficient focus on short term pilot 
recruitment.
Mr O’Leary even went as far as saying “we deeply regret” disruption caused to 700,000 customers.
But some journalists and analysts have been beginning to question whether these ongoing staff problems threaten 
his entire business model. In some cases, analysts have started downgrading profit expectations over the next few 
years.
So Mr O’Leary did what he does best: he went on the attack – but chose his target carefully. He said:
I’m sorry that our people have had to listen to misinformation about Ryanair promoted by competitor pilot 
unions, however we have been here before, and we will be again. We understand that the reason they wish to 
denigrate Ryanair is because their airlines cannot compete with us. As usual when these union airlines fail, 
such as Monarch, Air Berlin and Alitalia in recent months, their pilots all come to Ryanair seeking jobs that pay 
up to €175,000… We will continue to work hard to deliver for our people, our customers and our shareholders 
while these competitor unions will continue to rail and fail.
At least he has someone else to field questions now. He has managed to persuade former Ryanair executive Peter 
Bellew, recently chief executive of Malaysia Airlines, to return to deal with the staffing crisis.
Another cause of shared Guardian and Daily Mail outrage – bookmakers’ fixed-odds betting terminals – is also 
going to cost some companies dearly.
Today, a long-delayed review of the gambling industry by the Department of Culture Media and Sport has finally 
been published – and has ruled that there must be a cut in the maximum FOBT stake from £100 to £50, £30, £20 or 
even £2.
By setting out these four options – and indicating the the status quo cannot be maintained – the government has 
effectively started a high-stakes battle between the UK’s biggest bookmakers and anti-gambling campaigners over 
the use of machines dubbed by activists as the “crack cocaine” of gambling.
For bookmakers Ladbrokes Coral and William Hill, any cut in the FOBT stake will hit their revenues hard, and 
probably force shop closures, as FOBTs make up 56 per cent of retail takings, according to Barclays.
In September, the bank’s analysts forecast that Ladbrokes Coral would lose £437m in annual revenues from 
FOBTs, if the maximum stake was reduced to £2. William Hill would lose £288m, while Paddy Power Betfair would 
lose £60m.
A cut is also expected to trigger much needed industry consolidation, as clarity on the new betting shop rules will 
allow groups to seek diversification and economies of scale.
Opening Quote: Ryanair counts the cost of cancellations
Ladbrokes Coral, whose revenues are most exposed to FOBTs, is believed by some to have a revised deal with 
GVC Holdings already lined up. Paddy Power Betfair could use the shake-up to pick off another UK group. William 
Hill, however, has appeared less keen to talk to partners, despite being linked in the past with Canada’s Amaya, 
now known as Stars Group.
This morning, the government said there would now be a 12-week consultation period to allow interested parties to 
make their case for the FOBT limit.
Reports suggest there has already been vigorous debate within government over the issue. Prime minister Theresa 
May and officials at DCMS have become convinced of the need for strong action, while reports suggest that the 
chancellor Philip Hammond is concerned about the impact on the Treasury’s tax receipts. Even the Queen is 
reported to have asked Mrs May about the effects on the horseracing industry.
And, finally BP – the oil major that has caused outrage in the past over oil spill disasters and executive pay – is now 
seeking to gain favour with investors, with a share buyback scheme and a doubling in third quarter earnings.
This morning, the oil and gas explorer reported underlying profits on a replacement cost basis — the measure 
watched most closely by the market — of $1.87bn, compared with $933m in the same period last year. This was 
much better than the $1.58bn consensus forecast by analysts, according to RBC Capital Markets.
BP said it was able to cover its organic capital expenditure and dividend in the first nine months of this year at an oil 
price of $49 per barrel — reflecting deep cost cuts made since the 2014 oil market crash and highlighting the 
industry’s resurgent profitability.
This has given BP confidence to resume a share buyback programme to offset the dilutive impact of its scrip 
dividend programme, under which investors can choose to receive their payouts in shares rather than cash.
Today’s  Lombard column focuses on Glencore’s plans to drop its Hong Kong listing:
“Coals to Newcastle”, as a phrase denoting superfluity, has been rather meaningless in Britain since the 1980s, 
when most collieries in the North East closed. It really needs to be updated, perhaps to something like “Sausage 
Rolls to Newcastle”. Or “Scrappy Goals to Newcastle”. Or “Cheryl Coles to Newcastle” — at least judging by the 
volume, in every sense, of hen parties boarding Friday’s 12:43 to Edinburgh . . . and before I forget, thanks again 
for the offer of a Lambrini.
In the Asia Pacific region, however, no such update is needed, as Australia’s New South Welsh collieries continue 
to ship 160m tonnes of coal a year via the port of Newcastle, north of Sydney. It is this superfluity that led 
commodities group Glencore to land a near $1.5bn deal with Yancoal for a potential 49 per cent stake in Rio Tinto’s 
former Hunter Valley operations, this year. In fact, so important is the mining industry that the National Stock 
Exchange of Australia used to be known as the Newcastle Stock Exchange — and based in the city.
So it might seem surprising that people in the region are no longer interested in trading Glencore shares.
Read the rest of today’s Lombard column  here.
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for 
the full newsletter here.
 
Load-Date: October 31, 2017
End of Document
Fast Europe Open: France and eurozone GDP, UK house prices
Fast Europe Open: France and eurozone GDP, UK house prices
 
FT.com
October 31, 2017 Tuesday 5:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 301 words
Byline: Edward White
Body
Robert Mueller has filed  the first charges of his investigation into Russian links to Donald Trump’s election team, 
indicting the president’s former campaign manager and striking a plea bargain with an ex-aide who attempted to 
broker meetings with senior officials in Moscow.
The charges against Paul Manafort, who headed the Trump campaign from June to August 2016, and George 
Papadopoulos, a campaign adviser who was arrested in July but has since agreed to co-operate, mark the most 
serious legal threat to the president since Mr Mueller was appointed special counsel in May.
Although the 31-page indictment against Mr Manafort, who was charged along with business partner Richard 
Gates, focused mainly on the Republican operative’s work in Ukrainian politics before joining Mr Trump’s team, Mr 
Papadopoulos provided a detailed account of his work to secure damaging information about Democratic rival 
Hillary Clinton from Russian sources.
Asia-Pacific stocks were  broadly lower on Tuesday following a disappointing lead from Wall Street, where the S&P 
500 came off Friday’s record closing high to end Monday down 0.3 per cent.
Volatility was  mostly low in currency markets, with the dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of 
peers, flat. Oil prices were slightly lower after Brent crude settled at its highest point in more than two years on 
Monday.
Futures tip the FTSE 100 index and the S&P 500 to open flat when trading begins.
Corporate earnings reports out today include Airbus, JUST EAT, BP, Ryanair, Weir Group and BNP Paribas.
Fast Europe Open: France and eurozone GDP, UK house prices
The economic calendar for Tuesday has seen quieter days (all times London):
•
06:30:France gross domestic product
•
07.00: UK nationwide house prices
•
07.45: France consumer price index and consumer spending
•
09.00: Italy unemployment
•
10.00: eurozone GDP and inflation
Load-Date: October 31, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair shares take off after positive first half results
Ryanair shares take off after positive first half results
 
FT.com
October 31, 2017 Tuesday 8:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 93 words
Byline: Nicholas Megaw
Body
Ryanair is on track for its best one-day share price rise in a year, after the budget airline  stuck to its full-year 
forecasts despite recent operational difficulties.
Shares in the group rose more than 5 per cent at the open, and at publication time were up 4.7 per cent to €16.50.
The company said it is benefiting from lower fuel costs, and said average fares over the year will fall less far than 
previously expected.
Its positive outlook also boosted rival EasyJet, which was one of the largest risers on the FTSE 100. Shares in the 
company rose 1.6 per cent.
Load-Date: October 31, 2017
End of Document
Pilot relations in spotlight ahead of Ryanair results
Pilot relations in spotlight ahead of Ryanair results
 
FT.com
October 28, 2017 Saturday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 796 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair’s razor-sharp focus on costs over the past 30 years has helped make the low-cost airline one of Europe’s 
most profitable carriers. 
But recent high-profile staffing problems risk undermining the airline’s lean business model, pointing to a longer-
term impact on labour costs. Some analysts have already started downgrading their profit expectations for the 
company over the next few years, ahead of Ryanair’s first-half results on Tuesday. 
“As it stands today, there is still quite a lot of belief among investors that they will get through it and they [Ryanair] 
will be looking to secure that view. Whether they can, and whether they have to take a profit warning along the way, 
will be interesting,” said Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC. 
In September, Ryanair announced it was cancelling more than 20,000 flights because of a shortage of cockpit crew 
caused by mess-up with rotas. As a result, Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers has slowed its growth 
plans for winter and next summer. It has also gone on a pilot hiring spree and increased pay for existing and new 
cockpit crew. 
But this pay offer has been coldly received by some, with pilots at Stansted, Ryanair’s largest base, voting against 
the pay rise last week.
“The spotlight is on its pilot relations now and pilots suddenly see it as their moment,” said aviation consultant John 
Strickland. “It’s an evolving situation and it’s hard to say how it will play out.”
Pilot relations in spotlight ahead of Ryanair results
Aviation analysts say investors will be looking for answers on Tuesday, seeking assurances on how the company 
will overcome labour issues and whether it will affect the full-year profit outlook. 
“Historically when Ryanair have faced challenges they’ve worked through them,” said Mr Lobbenberg. “They’ve 
faced unionisation drives in the past and they have, generally speaking, breezed through them.”
However, it “feels different this time”, he said. Last month, Ryanair was also dealt a blow in its legal battle to force 
employees across Europe to take disputes to the Irish courts, after the European Court of Justice ruled that cabin 
crew based in other countries could pursue claims locally. Some analysts believe this raises questions about 
Ryanair’s employment model and could lead to higher labour costs.
“It’s the coincidence in the timing of a tight pilot market, the coincidence of coming after the [EU] ruling and a 
broader social climate: a scrutiny on the gig economy and the tax affairs of large corporates. It challenges their 
business model and they are fighting to defend it,” said Mr Lobbenberg.
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said he felt there was a question about how well Ryanair’s management is 
“reading the mood among pilots”. 
Many Ryanair pilots have joined trade unions in recent weeks, as well as forming an unofficial European Employee 
Representative Council to represent their views collectively to management.
Ryanair only negotiates with Employee Representative Councils from individual bases, and does not recognise 
trade unions. It argues its pay offer means pilots will be on better salaries and conditions than rivals, such as Jet 2 
and Norwegian.
Jonathan Wober, an analyst at CAPA Centre for Aviation, says all eyes will be on the full-year profit outlook, which 
is currently forecast at between €1.4bn and €1.45bn. 
Ryanair has previously estimated a €50m cost relating to the flight cancellations. However, Daniel Roeska, analyst 
at Bernstein, believes there may be additional cost for Ryanair to provide alternative transportation for customers 
whose flights have been cancelled more than two weeks in advance, which he estimates could be in the mid two-
digit range. 
While analysts at Goodbody say that pay increases and bonuses for pilots and cabin crew are expected to cost 
€70-€100m over the next year, depending on the outcome of Ryanair’s pay negotiations with individual bases.
Analysts note that Ryanair’s second-quarter results should be good as the cancellations happened from the last two 
weeks of September and the cuts made at the time were relatively modest. 
Mr Khoo said Ryanair has been through tougher periods, pointing to two profit warnings in 2013 that prompted 
changes including cuts or cancellations of unpopular fees, improvements to its website, and more flights to major 
airports. 
For now, it seems Ryanair’s investors largely remain sanguine. One top 20 investor told the FT he “remained highly 
convinced of the business model”, adding that Ryanair management have “earned trust from a shareholder 
perspective that they can handle issues”. 
He added it was important to put the numbers into perspective, pointing to Ryanair’s operating margin of 23 per 
cent, the highest of European airlines. “They may have a €100m euros hit, which is not nice, but [it] is clearly 
digestible.” 
Load-Date: October 28, 2017
End of Document
Compass shares buoyed after broker upgrade
Compass shares buoyed after broker upgrade
 
FT.com
October 27, 2017 Friday 5:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 440 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Compass was among Friday’s biggest gainers after RBC turned positive on the catering giant. 
Recent underperformance has left Compass at a material discount both to other defensive-growth stocks, which 
looks harsh, RBC said. Recent robust trading is expected to continue and the departure of Richard Cousins, 
Compass’s long-serving chief executive, is unlikely to be disruptive to the business, RBC told clients. 
“In a sector with little value at present (and a number of risky recovery plays), we believe Compass is a sensible 
place to be on a relative basis,” it said. RBC put a £17.50 target on the stock, which rose 2.4 per cent to £16.38. 
A quiet end to the week saw the FTSE 100 edge up 0.3 per cent or 18.53 points to 7,505.03. 
But British Airways owner IAG lost 6.9 per cent to 623.5p on profit-taking after damping fourth-quarter optimism, 
which had contributed to a 15 per cent gain for the stock over the previous month. Among peers, EasyJet fell 3.2 
per cent and Ryanair was off 1.2 per cent to €15.72.
Tate & Lyle rose 2.43 per cent higher to 653p, with Kepler Cheuvreux upgrading from “reduce” to “hold”.
2017 margins for Tate’s Sucralose sweetener are a product of Chinese supply constraints so are likely to be 
unsustainable, Kepler argued. However, it saw Tate’s 40 per cent discount to ingredients industry peers as fair.
Compass shares buoyed after broker upgrade
Car dealership Pendragon climbed 3 per cent to 25.8p after Teleios Capital Partners, the activist investor that last 
year forced changes at SodaStream, disclosed a 5.3 per cent stake. Pendragon this week warned on profits and 
launched a strategic review aimed at putting software and technology at the centre of the business. 
Tullow Oil faded 2.4 per cent to 178p on news that its Araku shallow-water oil prospect off the coast of Suriname 
had failed to find a reservoir.
Satellite operator Inmarsat dropped 3.9 per cent to 589.5p, a five-year low, after results from sector peers Eutelsat 
and SES both disappointed. SES warned of a “moderate decline”for fixed data this year, having previously aimed 
for a return to growth, and cut margin guidance. 
Inmarsat has third-quarter results due November 9. Exane expected Inmarsat to report falling maritime and 
enterprise revenue, the latter down by 15 per cent year-on-year. “At 19.4 times 2018 [earnings], Inmarsat looks 
expensive at a time when it needs to transition from its incumbent position on narrow band networks to a more 
competitive broadband network marketplace,” the broker said.
Aim-listed On-Line, which owns a small stake in a retail investment website, closed up 173.5 per cent at 45p a day 
after saying it plans to  add “Blockchain” to its name.
Load-Date: October 29, 2017
End of Document
IAG expects full-year profits to rise by a fifth
IAG expects full-year profits to rise by a fifth
 
FT.com
October 27, 2017 Friday 2:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 493 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
British Airways owner International Airlines Group is expecting full-year profits to jump almost a fifth this year as it 
benefits from improving ticket prices, cheaper fuel and the collapse of rivals. 
IAG, which also owns Iberia, Vueling and Aer Lingus, gave a confident outlook amid a turbulent period for European 
airlines. This month, UK airline Monarch became the third European carrier to enter administration, following Air 
Berlin and Alitalia this summer. 
Meanwhile, Ryanair, Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers, has cancelled thousands of flights following a 
pilot rostering mess-up. 
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said British Airways has seen a rise in bookings following Monarch’s collapse, 
while Vueling, its Spanish low-cost carrier, was benefiting in Italy from Alitalia’s troubles. 
He added it remained interested in Monarch’s slots at Gatwick, and predicted further consolidation in the European 
industry
“What we are seeing clearly is consolidation within the European industry, with a number of weak airlines going out 
of business and there is a lot of speculation to whether that may continue and I suspect it will through the fourth 
quarter,” he said.
IAG said operating profit in 2017 will be about €3bn before exceptional items, up 18 per cent from €2.5bn last year. 
The airline group had previously forecast a double-digit percentage full-year profit rise. 
IAG expects full-year profits to rise by a fifth
IAG said third-quarter operating profit before exceptional items jumped 21 per cent to €1.46bn, up from €1.21bn a 
year ago, beating a company-compiled analyst consensus of €1.4bn.
European carriers are starting to see fares improve following a period which saw low fuel prices encourage airlines 
to flood the market with capacity, leading to lower fares.
The summer marked a brighter period for IAG after a massive power outage that grounded hundreds of flights in 
May. IAG’s share price has climbed more than 50 per cent so far this year, including almost 15 per cent over the 
past month, but fell more than 6 per cent on Friday after analysts pointed to weaker passenger unit revenues than 
rivals.
While the group said passenger unit revenues — a measure of fares — in constant currency rose by 2.2 per cent in 
the third quarter, compared with a year ago, analysts noted that this was a slower performance than the previous 
quarter when they rose 4 per cent. 
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said that IAG’s third-quarter passenger unit revenue performance was weaker 
than German rival Lufthansa, which this week reported a rise of 4.5 per cent for the quarter. 
Another area of concern was weakness in IAG’s North American unit revenue, one of IAG’s most lucrative markets, 
which was down 3.1 per cent. 
However, Mr Walsh dismissed concerns, noting that the weaker North American unit revenues was down to the 
growth of its two lower-cost airlines Aer Lingus and Level on the transatlantic route, which had a “dilutive effect”.
Additional reporting by Nicholas Megaw
Load-Date: October 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair pilots to be balloted on group legal action
Ryanair pilots to be balloted on group legal action
 
FT.com
October 26, 2017 Thursday 4:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 671 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Sarah O’Connor
Body
Ryanair’s UK pilots are being balloted on launching group legal action to challenge their agency employment status, 
in what could be a further blow to the low-cost airline’s battle to overcome its escalating pilot problems. 
Balpa, the British association for pilots, is consulting Ryanair’s UK-based pilots — many of whom are contractors — 
to see if there is support for a group legal action to establish employee or worker rights from either the employment 
agencies or Ryanair directly.
If there is a strong vote in favour from pilots, Ryanair would become the latest company to come under scrutiny over 
its employment structure. Last month Addison Lee suffered a legal blowafter a London tribunal ruled that drivers for 
the company were “workers” owed holiday pay and the minimum wage. The defeat followed a similar case last year 
against Uber, which the company is appealing. 
It comes during a turbulent period for the Irish airline: pilot shortages led to the abrupt cancellation of thousands of 
flights last month and there have been reprimands from aviation regulators in several countries.
Earlier this month, Ryanair pilots at Stansted, the carrier’s biggest base, overwhelmingly rejected a higher pay offer, 
as they attempt to force the company to re-examine wider terms and conditions of their employment. 
Brian Strutton, general secretary of Balpa, said: “In response to calls from our pilots, we are currently looking at 
Ryanair’s contractor employment model and whether there’s anything that can be done about it. We are looking at 
whether it can be challenged in a similar way that Uber drivers challenged their status?”
Ryanair pilots to be balloted on group legal action
He noted that Ryanair is “unique” in the complexity of its employment structures. “Many pilots who fly for Ryanair 
are not in fact employed by them but are agency workers, supplied through several different third, or even fourth-
party companies,” said Mr Strutton.
As part of the consultation, which ends on November 6, the union is also asking whether pilots are prepared to 
support industrial action. 
“The pilot workforce in Ryanair are in revolt. The company doesn’t seem to know what to do about it. They’ve tried 
throwing money at it and that hasn’t worked,” Mr Strutton said.
However, Ryanair said more than 10 of its 87 bases had already accepted the offer. The airline currently negotiates 
only with Employee Representative Councils from individual bases, and does not recognise trade unions.
Ryanair’s contractor pilots are required to pay for their own hotels when they cannot return to their home base 
because of flight schedules. They are also not paid for the time spent reviewing maps and routes ahead of a flight. 
Several employment tribunal cases have arisen in the UK over the past year, brought by people arguing they 
should be treated as “workers” with rights to the minimum wage and holiday pay. As well as the Uber and Addison 
Lee cases, courier company CitySprint lost a test case on the issue after it was challenged by a bicycle courier.
Liana Wood, a solicitor at Leigh Day, the law firm that represented the claimants in the Addison Lee and the initial 
Uber case, said that to an outside observer, the Ryanair employment structure looked complex given the 
involvement of agencies. “I’ve not seen a case being done like this, but it does raise a lot of interesting questions,” 
she said. 
Ms Wood said the Uber case seemed to be having a ripple effect. “I think it quite possibly . . . is making people 
consider whether actually the way in which they’re working is lawful,” she said.
Ryanair rejected Balpa’s claims and insisted that a majority of its pilots were direct employees, although it refused 
to say how many. It also said that “in case of disruptions to schedules requiring crew to overnight in hotels, then this 
is paid by Ryanair”. The company added that if its pilots wanted to “discuss or improve their pay or conditions, they 
can do so at any time using the established collective bargaining . . . process”.
This article has been updated with comment from Ryanair.
Load-Date: October 29, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair ’s Stansted pilots turn down O’Leary’s pay offer
Ryanair’s Stansted pilots turn down O’Leary’s pay offer
 
FT.com
October 20, 2017 Friday 9:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 421 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, Industry Editor
Body
Ryanair’s Stansted pilots have overwhelmingly rejected a higher pay offer from the low-cost carrier’s outspoken 
founder, Michael O’Leary, in a bid to force the airline to re-examine the wider terms and conditions of their 
employment.
The vote at the carrier’s biggest base marks a setback for Ryanair’s attempts to stem a pilot shortage that led to the 
abrupt cancellation of thousands of flights last month and to reprimands from aviation regulators in several 
countries. 
It follows a similar rejection at Ryanair’s Madrid base earlier this week. However Ryanair said that 10 of its 87 bases 
had already accepted the offer.
Stansted pilots voted 62 per cent to 38 per cent to reject the offer of £11,000-£22,000 extra in bonuses and 
allowances. The pay rise is conditional on all negotiations being conducted through a Stansted-based employee 
representative committee (ERC), as Ryanair refuses to recognise unions. Roughly 90 per cent of Stansted’s 480 
pilots turned out for the vote. 
Aviation Professionals Unite,  a website for Ryanair pilots, welcomed the vote as a victory in a wider campaign for 
collective bargaining at the airline. It said the Stansted pilots had “denied the chance for Ryanair management to 
ram a bad deal down the throats of the pilot body . . . In so doing have cleared the way for other, more vulnerable 
bases to do the same!”
Ryanair ’s Stansted pilots turn down O’Leary’s pay offer
One pilot told the Financial Times that the rejection was not about the scale of the pay rise. It was, he said, about 
the wider terms and conditions and Ryanair’s refusal to negotiate on a wider European basis. 
Ryanair pilots — many of whom are contractors — are required to pay for their own hotels when they cannot return 
to their home base due to flight schedules. They are also not paid for the time spent reviewing maps and routes 
ahead of a flight. 
“This is not about money,” the pilot said. “It is odd to say we are glad that pilots have rejected higher pay. But we 
are so happy this vote has turned it down.”
Ryanair sent a memo to pilots expressing its “surprise” at the result. It said the vote — overseen by the independent 
Electoral Reform Services monitor — “vindicates how effective and democratic the collective bargaining process in 
Ryanair is”.
The carrier said it would continue to engage with the ERC to address remaining concerns. New pilots would be 
recruited at the base from November at the higher pay rates, “which will put new London Stansted captains over 
£23,000 ahead of [annual] pay levels in Norwegian and £25,000 ahead of Jet 2 airlines,” it said. 
Load-Date: October 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair hire Peter Bellew flies into new challenge
Ryanair hire Peter Bellew flies into new challenge
 
FT.com
October 20, 2017 Friday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 717 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Just days before Malaysia Airlines’ chief executive Peter Bellew announced he would be leaving to move back to 
his former employer, Ryanair, the Irishman donned his guitar and sang at an industry dinner in London. 
The choice of one of his songs — “Don’t look back in anger” by Oasis — now appears apt. While the 52-year-old 
Irishman’s departure will leave the Asian carrier searching for its fourth chief executive in three years, as it looks to 
complete its turnround, Mr Bellew will not be looking back at his time there with much regret.
Previously dubbed the “toughest job in aviation”, Mr Bellew’s time at Malaysia did not disappoint.
Alongside his predecessor Christoph Mueller, the former Aer Lingus chief executive who headed up Malaysia 
Airlines from 2015, the duo have been credited with helping turn round the state-owned carrier that was left reeling 
from the disappearance of MH370 over the southern Indian Ocean in March 2014, and the shooting down of MH17 
over Ukraine four months later. 
Mr Bellew’s next role — fixing the pilot staffing problems at Ryanair, which have led to the cancellation of more than 
20,000 flights at the low-cost airline — is likely to be equally challenging.
He described the return to Ryanair — where he will start as chief operating officer on December 1 — as a “form of 
national service”. “Love for country is pulling me back to Ireland . . . They need my help and there is a big 
challenge,” he wrote this week.
Ryanair hire Peter Bellew flies into new challenge
Before joining Malaysia, Mr Bellew worked in a variety of roles at Ryanair for almost a decade before ending his 
time there as director of flight operations in 2014. 
Aviation commentators say he appears the right man for the giant task at Europe’s biggest airline by passengers. 
Often found playing his guitar and singing at industry events, with Irish band U2 another favourite on his repertoire, 
he is described as friendly and “affable”.
“He’s the opposite in nature to Ryanair. Contrast the abrasion with the affability Peter has,” says John Strickland, a 
London-based aviation analyst. “I think he would take a far more conciliatory, pragmatic approach. There would be 
more of a feeling that pilots are being listened to.”
Other aviation insiders agree. One industry executive, who has known Mr Bellew for two decades, says he is not a 
typical Ryanair director. 
“It always struck me that . . . other Ryanair executives after a while would morph into [chief executive] Michael 
O’Leary, the same mannerisms, facial expressions, the same voice. But Peter would be someone who is not the 
Ryanair type. His bedside manner is far removed from Michael O’Leary,” he says.
Mr Bellew has been given the specific responsibility for pilot production, training and career development, to help 
ensure that Ryanair’s rostering failure, which left it without enough crew to man all booked flights, is not repeated. 
He will have to improve relations with pilots amid reports that many are leaving to join rival carriers, while those that 
remain are fighting for better working conditions and union recognition.
One Ryanair pilot has said he felt the hire of Mr Bellew was a “bad move”, stating that the airline needed “change” 
rather than appointing a former employee.
But pilots may want to take heart from the Irishman’s social media — his Instagram account is full of photos from 
the past two years showing him surrounded by Malaysia Airlines staff. Following the announcement of his 
departure, his account was also flooded with messages from staff, expressing their regret and wishing him well. 
In a personal statement sent out after the news of his appointment at Ryanair, the father of four expressed his 
fondness for the Malaysian flag carrier, calling it “special”. 
During his time there, Mr Bellew has been open about how important it has been to improve the morale of his 
employees, as well as the need to focus tightly on costs. 
He joined the carrier as deputy to Mr Mueller in 2015, before taking control in July 2016.
Some in the industry have speculated that Mr Bellew’s move from chief executive to COO means he is being lined 
up as an eventual successor to Mr O’Leary. In the immediate future, many commentators believe he will bring a 
“cool head” at the time of Ryanair’s crisis and help restore the low-cost airline’s reputation over the coming months. 
Load-Date: October 21, 2017
End of Document
Australia’s AMP Capital snaps up Leeds Bradford Airport
Australia’s AMP Capital snaps up Leeds Bradford Airport
 
FT.com
October 18, 2017 Wednesday 4:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 415 words
Byline: Andrew Bounds
Body
Australian asset manager AMP Capital has increased its interest in the UK by buying Leeds Bradford airport from 
Bridgepoint, the private equity firm. Leeds Bradford Airport is the country’s 15th busiest hub, handling almost 4m 
passengers a year.
It is a sign of the continuing global appetite for UK assets despite warnings that leaving the EU would dent its 
economy. AMP already owns Newcastle airport in the UK and several others around the world. The price was not 
disclosed.
The A$179bn ($140bn) fund’s other UK investments are stakes in Angel Trains, a rolling-stock company, Thames 
Water and Newcastle airport.
The airport turned over £32m in the year to March 31, 2017, up from £29.5m the year before. It recorded a pretax 
loss of £6.9m, up from a loss of £5.4m, after paying £5.7m interest on its £89m debt burden. Earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation were £8m.
AMP said it believed Leeds Bradford was primed for further growth. Its catchment area contains 5.3m people, 2.9m 
of whom live less than one hour from the airport. Leeds and Bradford are the third and seventh largest cities in the 
UK, respectively, and the region is home to the UK’s largest financial and business services centre outside London. 
The airport mainly offers international short-haul flights to customers as well as domestic destinations. Ryanair and 
Jet2 are big customers.
Australia’s AMP Capital snaps up Leeds Bradford Airport
But it struggles to compete with Manchester, around 90km away, which has more than 25m passengers annually 
and 200 destinations and is better connected by public transport.
Simon Ellis, Head of Origination, Europe at AMP Capital, said:
With its strong underlying fundamentals including freehold ownership with well-invested infrastructure, a 
diversified airline mix and its catchment area in an economic hub of the North of England, Leeds Bradford 
Airport is a highly attractive investment and a great fit for AMP Capital’s global infrastructure platform.
It sits north of Leeds near Harrogate and a new road from the centre of the city should be built by 2024. Local 
authorities also plan to build a station nearby.
Bridgepoint bought the airport from local councils for £145m in 2007.
Michael Davy, partner at Bridgepoint, said:
Over the past five years of Bridgepoint ownership, passenger numbers have grown by almost 40 per cent to 
over 4m, around £30m has been invested in projects including a terminal upgrade, employee numbers have 
grown from 200 to around 460, and ebitda has grown by over 25 per cent per annum.
Load-Date: October 18, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair lures back chief of Malaysia Airlines
Ryanair lures back chief of Malaysia Airlines
 
FT.com
October 17, 2017 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 542 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has lured back Peter Bellew, chief executive of Malaysia Airlines, to the low-cost airline to help it fix the 
pilot staffing problems that caused the cancellation of more than 20,000 flights. 
Mr Bellew will rejoin the Irish carrier as chief operations officer from December 1 after leaving it in 2014, when he 
held the role of director of flight operations. He has run Malaysia Airlines for just over a year. 
His appointment comes less than two weeks after Michael Hickey, a 30-year Ryanair veteran who was close to 
chief executive Michael O’Leary, became the first executive head to roll after rostering debacles forced the airline to 
cancel thousands of flights. 
 Ryanair, Europe’s biggest airline by passengers, said Mr Bellew would be given the specific responsibility for pilot 
production, training and career development to help ensure that its rostering failure, which left it without enough 
crew to man all booked flights, is not repeated. 
The low-cost airline has spent the past month fighting to contain the damage after it was forced to cancel 20,000 of 
its 800,000 flights between September and March. 
In an update on Monday, the airline said that 697,000 passengers affected by both the first cancellations and a 
subsequent scaling back of winter flights had been recompensed or rerouted. The remainder — out of a total of 
715,000 — have yet to contact Ryanair, it said.
Ryanair lures back chief of Malaysia Airlines
But the airline still faces the challenge of overcoming its pilot shortage. Ryanair is in the middle of a pilot recruiting 
spree and has promised to improve the pay and conditions of its cockpit crew in an attempt to improve pilot 
retention. 
However, the Irish carrier’s offer faces a chilly response from some pilots. Many have joined European unions in 
recent weeks, as well as forming an independent European Employee Representative Council to represent their 
views collectively to management. 
They are asking for better working conditions and for its EERC to be the recognised representative body for Ryanair 
pilots.
Ryanair currently only negotiates with Employee Representative Councils from individual bases, and does not 
recognise trade unions.
The independent EERC has warned pilots against accepting new pay deals being offered by Ryanair to individual 
bases over the coming weeks. 
In a memo to pilots last week, Eddie Wilson, Ryanair’s chief people officer, warned that they risk losing out on big 
pay rises next month if they are “misled by the false promises” of unions.
Ryanair’s offer will lead to a pay rise of up to €22,000 for captains and up to €11,000 for first officers depending on 
where they are based.
Mr O’Leary said he was “pleased” to welcome Mr Bellew back to Ryanair. “Peter will lead a significant 
transformation in the way we reward and interact with our pilots, improve their working environment and career 
development over the coming years,” he said. 
Mr Bellew joined Malaysia Airlines as chief operations officer in September 2015 before taking over as chief 
executive in July last year, following Christoph Mueller’s move to Dubai-based Emirates. 
This will see the struggling Malaysian carrier forced to search for its third new chief executive within three years, as 
it seeks to turn the business round after two aviation disasters. 
Load-Date: October 17, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair taps ex-flight operations chief for COO to solve pilots crisis
Ryanair taps ex-flight operations chief for COO to solve pilots crisis
 
FT.com
October 17, 2017 Tuesday 10:09 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 274 words
Byline: Hugo Greenhalgh
Body
Ryanair has re-hired its former flight operations director, as the low-cost airline attempts to ensure the recent crisis 
that saw 20,000 flights cancelled does not happen again.
Peter Bellew, who left in 2014, will re-join Europe’s largest carrier by passenger numbers as chief operations officer 
on December 1 from Malaysia Airlines, where he is currently chief executive.
The Irish airline has suffered a wave of bad publicity in recent weeks, hit by a series of flight cancellations that left 
the budget airline facing a sizeable compensation bill and potential legal action. In September, the Civil Aviation 
Authority launched enforcement action against Ryanair for “persistently misleading passengers with inaccurate 
information regarding their rights in respect of its recent cancellations”.
Mr Bellew will assume responsibilities for the Irish airline’s flight and ground operations as well as engineering. 
Ryanair said he would have a specific brief for pilot production, training and career development with “a mission to 
ensure that the pilot rostering failure … will never be repeated”.
Mr Bellew’s appointment comes less than two weeks after Michael Hickey, a 30-year Ryanair veteran who was 
close to chief executive Michael O’Leary, left the group. At the time, the Mr O’Leary described his outgoing COO as  
“a hard act to replace”.
Mr O’Leary said of the new hire:
Ryanair taps ex-flight operations chief for COO to solve pilots crisis
Peter will lead a significant transformation in the way we reward and interact with our pilots, improve their 
working environment and career development over the coming years as we grow the fleet to some 600 aircraft 
and expand our traffic, at lower fares.
(Photo: Reuters)
Load-Date: October 17, 2017
End of Document
Alitalia sale delayed after string of woes at European airlines
Alitalia sale delayed after string of woes at European airlines
 
FT.com
October 16, 2017 Monday 6:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 514 words
Byline: James Politi in Pisa and Patrick McGee in Frankfurt
Body
The sale of Alitalia, Italy’s flag carrier, has been delayed until next April, adding to uncertainty in the European 
airline industry following woes at Ryanair, Air Berlin and Monarch Airlines.
Pushing back the sale to April may prevent it from flaring up as an issue in Italy’s general election, which is likely to 
take place in March, according to Italian political analysts.
In a statement, Italy’s economic development ministry blamed the delay on “extraordinary events” changing the 
“strategic dynamics” in the sector, including the break-up of Air Berlin, the failure of Monarch and the “operational 
crisis” at Ryanair.
Alitalia, which is run by three government-appointed commissioners after collapsing into bankruptcy in May, on 
Monday received a bid from Lufthansa for its global network traffic and European domestic point-to-point business.
Germany’s largest carrier, which on Friday spent €210m to purchase more than half of insolvent rival Air Berlin, 
confirmed it had submitted an offer letter “expressing its interest in establishing a ‘NewAlitalia’,” saying it could help 
support long-term economic prospects.
EasyJet also said on Monday that it had expressed interest in some assets of a restructured Alitalia.
The Italian government had been hoping that Alitalia would not be broken up, so it was giving preference to bids for 
the entire company. 
Alitalia sale delayed after string of woes at European airlines
While the original plan was for a decision to be made on the new owner in November, the deadline was moved 
following a cabinet meeting last Friday.
The extra time means an additional €300m of taxpayer funds will be ploughed into the airline, on top of €600m 
designated earlier this year to keep Alitalia afloat during the transition to a new owner. 
Ryanair had been a potential buyer of Alitalia’s aviation unit, but dropped out of the bidding last month. 
On top of adding more funds to the bridge loan, the government extended its lifespan until September 2018, to 
cover the extra time required for the sale and any approval by antitrust authorities.
A change of hands at Alitalia in the middle of a general election campaign risked being a liability for the ruling 
centre-left Democratic party (PD), which is facing a tough battle to stay in control from both the centre-right 
opposition and the anti-establishment Five Star Movement. 
Matteo Renzi, the former prime minister and leader of the PD, had vowed last May to come up with his plan for the 
airline, but has since backed away, leaving the government to handle it. 
The government is facing a backlash over the sale of Ilva, the steel group also in administration, to a consortium led 
by ArcelorMittal, which involves the lay-off of more than a quarter of the workforce.
The delay in Alitalia’s sale marks the latest chapter in the saga surrounding the airline, which was rescued with high 
hopes in 2014 thanks to an investment by Etihad, the UAE-based carrier. 
However, a combination of high overhead costs, tough competition on short-haul routes and lack of growth in more 
profitable long-haul routes, jeopardised Alitalia’s recovery leading to its bailout this year. 
Load-Date: October 17, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair puts pressure on pilots to accept pay offer
Ryanair puts pressure on pilots to accept pay offer
 
FT.com
October 12, 2017 Thursday 11:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 545 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair is piling the pressure on pilots to accept its pay offer as the low-cost airline fights to overcome a crisis over 
the cancellation of more than 20,000 flights, triggered by a shortage of cockpit crew. 
In a new memo to pilots, Eddie Wilson, Ryanair’s chief people officer, warned that they risk losing out on big pay 
rises next month if they are “misled by the false promises” of unions. 
It comes just days after Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, wrote a letter to pilots promising them the airline 
would exceed rivals’ pay rates and improve job security. 
However, the offer of the Irish carrier, Europe’s largest by number of passengers, faces a chilly response from 
some pilots. Many have joined European unions in recent weeks, as well as forming an independent European 
Employee Representative Council to represent their views collectively to management. 
Ryanair currently only negotiates with Employee Representative Councils from individual bases, and does not 
recognise trade unions. 
The independent EERC has warned pilots against accepting new pay deals being offered by  Ryanair to individual 
bases over the coming weeks. 
In his memo to pilots, Mr Wilson reiterated that Ryanair will not meet any union group. “We will not enter into 
writing, or meetings, with competitor airline pilots/unions, or whatever they call themselves this week . . . whose sole 
aim is to prevent you from accessing a big pay increase next month,” he wrote. 
Ryanair puts pressure on pilots to accept pay offer
He added: “The only way to ensure that your base shares in this upside — from November — is to support your 
ERC’s reaching agreement over the next three weeks. If this doesn’t happen, then these pay increases may be 
delayed until December, or next year, or not delivered at all.” 
Ryanair is working on containing the damage after it was forced to cancel 20,000 of its 800,000 flights between 
September and March. It cut the flights because of a regulatory change that required airlines to calculate crew flying 
hours over a calendar year, instead of its own fiscal year. That left it with too few standby pilots on its roster. 
The first, abrupt cancellation of 2,000 flights late last month with little or no notice led to chaos for thousands of 
passengers who found themselves stranded far from home. Its second cancellation saw a further 18,000 flights 
grounded. 
After days of confusion, the UK Civil Aviation Authority accused Mr O’Leary and Ryanair of deliberately misleading 
stranded passengers about compensation and rights to be rebooked on other airlines. It demanded the carrier 
rectify these breaches or face legal action. 
The Irish carrier still faces the challenge of overcoming its pilot issues. Brian Strutton, general secretary of British 
Airline Pilots’ Association, last week said that Ryanair pilots believed that Mr O’Leary “still doesn’t get” their 
grievances. 
They are asking for better working conditions and for its EERC to be the recognised representative body for Ryanair 
pilots. 
Ryanair’s current offer will see a pay rise of up to €22,000 for captains and up to €11,000 for first officers depending 
on where they are based. 
Last week, the airline announced that Michael Hickey, its chief operating officer who was in charge of rostering, 
would leave the company at the end of the month. 
Load-Date: October 15, 2017
End of Document
Lufthansa to sign deal to buy half of Air Berlin
Lufthansa to sign deal to buy half of Air Berlin
 
FT.com
October 12, 2017 Thursday 4:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 656 words
Byline: Patrick McGee in Frankfurt and Tanya Powley in London
Body
Lufthansa will buy more than half of Air Berlin, the lossmaking airline that filed for insolvency in August after losing 
the support of its biggest shareholder Etihad Airways.
Air Berlin confirmed on Thursday that Germany’s largest carrier would buy Niki, its Austrian holiday airline, regional 
carrier LGW, as well as 20 other aircraft. 
People close to Air Berlin said the transaction amounted to €210m. Lufthansa declined to confirm the number. 
“Today we are taking a big step forward,” said Thomas Winkelmann, chief executive at Air Berlin. “However, we 
cannot breathe again until the EU-Commission finalises the transaction.”
Negotiations with easyJet, which is in the running to buy between 20 to 30 of Air Berlin’s aircraft, are ongoing. 
EasyJet declined to comment.
Ryanair, which has raised competition concerns in the event of Lufthansa taking over the lion’s share of Air Berlin’s 
asset, said it would be referring the matter to the EU competition authority in due course. 
The agreement, approved on Wednesday by Air Berlin’s supervisory board, follows a tumultuous summer for the 
European airline industry. 
Three carriers have entered insolvency in the space of six months, after intense competition in the European short-
haul market has put increasing pressure on weaker carriers. 
Lufthansa to sign deal to buy half of Air Berlin
Last week, UK’s Monarch became the latest airline to collapse. Meanwhile, binding bids for Italian carrier Alitalia, 
which entered administration in May after its employees rejected a restructuring plan, are due on Monday. 
Air Berlin filed for insolvency in August after Abu Dhabi-based Etihad, its biggest shareholder, decided not to pump 
in any more money after providing a series of cash injections over the past six years to keep the German carrier 
afloat.
A €150m bridging loan offered by the federal government helped the carrier through the summer, avoiding the sort 
of overnight turmoil experienced by Monarch, which saw the UK government launch Britain’s “biggest ever 
peacetime repatriation” to fly home more than 100,000 holidaymakers who were stranded overseas. 
Without the loan, Mr Winkelmann said last month, the fleet would have been grounded on the weekend of August 
12-13. “This would have meant the immediate loss of employment for all employees,” he said.
Air Berlin said jobs at Niki and LGW had been secured, while the prospects for thousands of other Air Berlin 
employees looked better. 
Frank Kebekus, a Düsseldorf-based lawyer who is in charge of the sale, said chances were “quite good” the €150m 
loan from the government could be repaid. 
Aviation analysts said Lufthansa’s purchase of large parts of Air Berlin was no “surprise” but noted that it would 
decrease competition. 
John Strickland, a London-based aviation consultant, said: “It will reduce competition because Air Berlin is 
disappearing and they are an international and domestic player. The extent to which that applies will depend on the 
conclusion of some sort of deal with easyJet.” 
Analysts at Bernstein said they expected the deal to add between €70m and €90m to annual operating profits at 
Eurowings, Lufthansa’s low-cost subsidiary, in the medium term. 
Ryanair, the Irish airline, has been critical of the Air Berlin sale negotiations, calling it a “conspiracy” between 
Lufthansa and the German government to create a national carrier.
Lufthansa chief executive Carsten Spohr confirmed earlier on Thursday that it would acquire a total of 81 aircraft in 
the Air Berlin deal.
However, Mr Spohr said there was no risk of a “supposedly threatening monopoly”. He said Lufthansa’s global 
market share was just 3 per cent, and in Europe it was 14 per cent.
Lufthansa acknowledged last week that its 34 per cent market share in Germany would grow by taking over parts of 
Air Berlin, but noted its share would be “significantly below 48 per cent — the market share Ryanair has in Ireland”.
Shares in Lufthansa rose more than 3 per cent on the back of the Air Berlin deal. 
Load-Date: October 13, 2017
End of Document
European airlines face more cuts and consolidation
European airlines face more cuts and consolidation
 
FT.com
October 8, 2017 Sunday 8:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1133 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
More than 750,000 people woke up last Monday to discover what every holiday-maker dreads — their flights had 
been cancelled after the airline they were using had collapsed.
Monarch, the UK’s fifth-biggest airline, had entered administration in the early hours of the morning after the group 
failed to find a last-minute buyer for the business.
On the same day, the UK government kicked off Britain’s “biggest ever peacetime repatriation” as it began flying 
home the first of 110,000 holidaymakers stranded overseas, an operation expected to take two weeks. 
But an estimated further 750,000 Monarch customers have seen their future flights cancelled. 
The collapse of Monarch highlights just how cut-throat competition in the European short-haul market has become. 
It is the third failure of an European airline in six months. Both Air Berlin and Alitalia went into insolvency 
proceedings this summer, after struggling to cope with the intense competition from rival carriers. 
While the European short-haul market has been extremely competitive for the past two decades, as low-cost 
airlines have aggressively grown their share of the market, lower fuel prices have contributed to an increase in 
competition in recent years. 
“Some airlines have kept going longer than they would have and some have put more capacity in as a result of 
cheaper fuel,” says Jonathan Wober, aviation analyst at CAPA Centre for Aviation. 
European airlines face more cuts and consolidation
“But there is a self-correcting mechanism here — the capacity glut leads to plummeting unit revenues, and those 
that don’t have the cost base to survive plummeting unit revenues eventually do suffer and disappear. You almost 
need that situation to cut the dead wood out.”
One of the critical problems has been the rapid consumption of market share by the low-cost airlines over the past 
30 years as they have aggressively focused on cheap fares.
In Europe, this has seen low-cost carriers, such as Ryanair and easyJet, tear chunks out of the short-haul market. 
Just 15 years ago, budget airlines had just over 9 per cent of market share in Europe. Today they provide more 
than 40 per cent of all scheduled airline capacity in western Europe as their networks expand. 
This has led to a fundamental change in the market, with full-service carriers aping many of the practices 
successfully introduced by low-cost carriers. This has seen most carriers offer seat-only fares and charge for 
baggage and other services. 
As a result, it has become much harder to differentiate between the service offerings from a low-cost airline to a 
legacy carrier as the market has concentrated on price.
One of the fiercest battlegrounds in the market has been Spain.
The flood of capacity into the country was one of the main reasons why Monarch gave up its fight after it was 
unable to compete with the low prices on offer. The market, together with Portugal, represented about 80 per cent 
of its business after it had to reduce the number of flights into Egypt, Turkey and Tunisia, where tourism suffered 
following terrorist attacks. 
Data from OAG shows that Spain has seen the addition of about 16m seats into the market over the past two years 
as carriers throughout Europe have added capacity after vacating high risk markets. 
The key year was 2016 when there was year on year growth of 14 per cent. “In a mature market that is an almost 
unprecedented level of increase,” says John Grant at OAG. 
The capacity of the troubled airlines is likely to attract interest from rivals.
All three airlines that have entered insolvency proceedings this year — Monarch, Air Berlin and Alitalia — have one 
thing in common: they have been struggling for years. All three have seen their market share fall as more and more 
low-cost capacity moved into the market. 
In the past three years, Monarch has been saved from collapse twice with emergency cash injections from London-
based investment group, Greybull Capital, which bought the airline in 2014 two hours away from insolvency. In the 
year to October 2016, Monarch reported a statutory loss of £291m, compared with a profit of £27m in 2015.
Germany’s Air Berlin had been under pressure for a while after racking up losses of about €2bn over the past six 
years, and net debt of €1.2bn. It has struggled to compete with low-cost carriers and tried several different business 
models over the years. 
Meanwhile, Alitalia’s high cost base simply could not compete with the growing penetration of low-cost carriers in 
the short and medium-haul European market. The Italian carrier has struggled to report a full-year net profit for 
more than a decade. 
For both Air Berlin and Alitalia, which have Etihad as a major shareholder, the situation worsened this year as the 
Gulf airline began unravelling its own strategy of buying up minority stakes in carriers to drive traffic to its hub in the 
Gulf after facing losses of $1.9bn in 2016. This saw it refuse to pump any further money into the lossmaking 
airlines, leading to their administration. 
In the crowded market, the big companies such as Europe’s largest low-cost airline Ryanair have fared better.
European airlines face more cuts and consolidation
Despite problems over recent weeks, Ryanair sits comfortably in the lead when it comes to operating margins, 
which highlight the contrasting fortunes of the various groups. 
The Irish group had an operating margin in 2016 of 23.1 per cent. Wizz Air is in second place with a margin of 15.7 
per cent. 
The troubled airlines have languished at the bottom of the table. Air Berlin and Alitalia had a negative operating 
margin of 8.8 per cent and 18.3 per cent respectively. 
However, despite signs of consolidation this year with the collapse of the weaker airlines, Europe’s market remains 
very fragmented compared with other regions such as the US. 
The biggest six airlines in the US provide 90 per cent of all US domestic capacity, while in contrast, the biggest six 
European carriers provide 43 per cent of capacity.
There are more airline groups operating in Europe than in any other region in the world. According to OAG, Europe 
has a total of 217, compared with 100 in North America. 
“The consolidation story [in Europe] is more about the weaker airlines exiting the market and the stronger ones 
growing their share organically rather than big M&A transactions,” says Mr Wober. 
The fragmented nature of the European airline market means it is less profitable than its North American 
counterpart. According to Iata, the airline trade association, North American airlines generate about half of the 
global industry profit, helped by the consolidation that has taken place that saw the merger of some of the biggest 
groups. 
Carriers in North America are expected to post a $15.4bn net profit in 2017, compared with a $7.4bn profit for 
European airlines.
Consequently, Europe still has some way to go in the consolidation process. 
Load-Date: October 11, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair chief operations officer to leave
Ryanair chief operations officer to leave
 
FT.com
October 6, 2017 Friday 8:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 536 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger in London and Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Ryanair’s chief operating officer is leaving the low-cost carrier, the first executive head to roll after a rostering 
debacle forced the airline to cancel thousands of flights and drew the ire of aviation regulators.
Michael Hickey, a 30-year Ryanair veteran and close to controversial chief executive Michael O’Leary, will leave the 
company at the end of the month, the airline said in a statement. 
Mr Hickey’s responsibilities included the recruitment of pilots, who have been at the centre of the escalating crisis 
since a scheduled regulatory change in the airline’s holiday calendar left it without enough crew to man all booked 
flights. That role has been assumed by Eddie Wilson, chief people officer. 
In a statement late on Friday, Mr O’Leary said the departing COO had made an “enormous contribution” 
to Ryanair since joining the business in 1988.
“He will be a hard act to replace, which is why we are grateful he has agreed to continue in an advisory role to 
smooth the transition to a successor,” Mr O’Leary said. The carrier refused to say whether Mr Hickey would receive 
a pay-off. 
Mr Hickey’s departure comes as Ryanair works to contain the damage after it was forced to cancel 20,000 of its 
800,000 flights between September and March. 
The first, abrupt cancellation of 2,000 flights two weeks ago with little or no notice led to chaos for thousands of 
passengers who found themselves stranded far from home.
Ryanair chief operations officer to leave
After days of confusion, the UK Civil Aviation Authority accused Mr O’Leary and Ryanair of deliberately misleading 
stranded passengers about compensation and rights to be rebooked on other airlines. It demanded the carrier 
rectify these breaches or face legal action.
Mr O’Leary has apologised, and the company’s latest update earlier this week stated that the 700,000 passengers 
affected by both the first cancellations and a subsequent scaling back of winter flights had now been informed of the 
changes and more than three-quarters had been recompensed or rerouted. 
But the company still faces the challenge of overcoming its pilot shortage. 
British and Irish pilots delivered a chilly response to a promise by Mr O’Leary this week to improve their pay and 
conditions in a bid to improve pilot retention. 
In a letter sent to pilots on Thursday, Mr O’Leary promised them that the airline would exceed rivals’ rates of pay 
and improve job security.
Ryanair would deliver “significant improvements to your rosters, your pay, your basing, your contracts and your 
career progression over the next 12 months”, the letter said. 
However, Brian Strutton, general secretary of British Airline Pilots’ Association (Balpa), said on Friday that Ryanair 
pilots believed that Mr O’Leary “still doesn’t get” their grievances.
“Pilots from bases all over the UK have told us that they don’t want halfhearted excuses to shut them up,” Mr 
Strutton said.
“They tell us that they want genuine respect and for their European [employee representative councils] to be the 
recognised representative body for Ryanair pilots. Until they are given that, Ryanair will have a problem with its 
pilots.”
This article has been amended to correct the total number of Ryanair flights between September and March from 
80,000 to 800,000.
Load-Date: October 7, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair ’s Michael O’Leary apologises to pilots and promises more pay
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary apologises to pilots and promises more pay
 
FT.com
October 6, 2017 Friday 7:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 786 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick and Arthur Beesley
Body
British and Irish pilots have delivered a chilly response to a promise by Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary to improve 
their pay and conditions as the airline battles a crisis over the cancellation of more than 2,000 flights, triggered by a 
shortage of cockpit crew.
The Irish carrier, Europe’s largest by number of passengers, cut the flights because of a regulatory change that 
forced airlines to calculate crew flying hours over a calendar year, instead of its own fiscal year. This left it with too 
few standby pilots on its roster, after it had long fought accusations by workers’ unions of overworking its crew. 
In a letter sent to pilots on Thursday, Mr O’Leary promised them the airline would exceed rivals’ rates of pay and 
improve job security.
Ryanair would deliver “significant improvements to your rosters, your pay, your basing, your contracts and your 
career progression over the next 12 months”, the letter said.
However Brian Strutton, general secretary of British Airline Pilots’ Association (Balpa), said on Friday that Ryanair 
pilots believed Mr O’Leary “still doesn’t get” their grievances. “Pilots from bases all over the UK have told us that 
they don’t want halfhearted excuses to shut them up,” Mr Strutton said. 
“They tell us that they want genuine respect and for their European [employee representative councils] to be the 
recognised representative body for Ryanair pilots. Until they are given that, Ryanair will have a problem with its 
pilots.”
Ryanair ’s Michael O’Leary apologises to pilots and promises more pay
Ryanair’s abrupt flight cancellations have prompted a backlash from consumer groups and regulators, as well as its 
crew, after several years of the airline trying to resurrect a brand that became associated with customer complaints. 
The UK Civil Aviation Authority has accused the carrier of misleading passengers whose flights were cancelled 
about their rights and failing to give adequate information on refunds for affected travellers’ costs of meals, hotels 
and transfers. 
Rivals such as EasyJet, Norwegian Air Shuttle and Jet2 have been looking to poach the Irish airline’s pilots since its 
problems began last month. 
Ryanair pilots have long complained about their working conditions and job security. Many who join the airline do so 
through an agency on a self-employed basis, which can limit their access to sick pay and cause complications when 
paying tax.
In 2013 the Ryanair Pilots’ Group, an unofficial workers’ association, complained that the airline was resetting pilots’ 
flight hours back to zero so they could legally fly more hours that year. The arrangement was approved by the Irish 
Aviation Authority. 
Balpa said the airline has therefore become known as a short-term employer for entry-level aviation professionals 
who need to rack up their flying hours, instead of a destination job. 
In late September Balpa urged Ryanair to “do more to encourage pilots to stay with the airline”. It said “working 
conditions are leading to pilots leaving the airline after a few years to go work for other airlines”. 
“The company needs to be a career airline, where pilots feel valued, not over-stretched,” it added. 
According to the Irish Airline Pilots’ Association, Ryanair lost 700 pilots in its past financial year. 
Evan Cullen, chief of the Irish association, said on Friday that clarification was required from  Ryanair about the new 
benefits, which the letter said would include initial pay rises of up to €10,000 and 12-month loyalty bonuses of up to 
€12,000. “There are a lot of promises made in the letter but no details of what the cost of these promises will be,” he 
said. 
“Our members have experienced Ryanair promises before and therefore we will need to carefully consider each 
point before we decide on a response.” 
Saying it was in a closed period before publishing half-year results at the end of this month, Ryanair declined to 
comment on the likely cost of the initiative or on its impact on profits.
Darren McKinley, Irish equities analyst at Merrion Capital, said the move could curtail profits by between €80m and 
€100m in the fiscal year beginning next April. Mr McKinley, who has a sell rating on Ryanair stock, said the 
company could still deliver earnings growth even after a €100m hit to net profits. 
“I think it’s a good initial move for Ryanair to try and draw a line under its pilots issue. What would make us positive 
on the Ryanair investment case is that all staff are happy with their terms of work,” Mr McKinley said.
In late September, Ryanair pilots dismissed the company’s offerof a £12,000 payment to waive days off and stay for 
a year with the business, in a move that could compound the company’s rostering problems. 
The pilots instead proposed a regional system with permanent local contracts for staff.
Load-Date: October 7, 2017
End of Document
Poor customer service harms the UK economy
Poor customer service harms the UK economy
 
FT.com
October 6, 2017 Friday 10:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 261 words
Body
Sir, As Monarch customers take time from their working day to deal with cancelled flights, they must be met with a 
high standard of customer service from those picking up the pieces. This week, our research revealed that 
consumers dealing with customer service issues during office hours cost employers £28bn a year in lost 
productivity. Problems related to transport are the third most time-consuming, costing organisations an average of 
£2.3bn — topped only by house purchases and tax queries. The average cost per employee is £1,194 per year, 
with over half claiming that their ability to focus is affected long after conversations with customer service staff have 
ended.
Monarch and Ryanair customers experiencing cancelled flights may be left feeling anxious, not least by spending 
working time dealing with the consequences. The responsibility now lies with airlines to ensure, where possible, that 
problems are prevented at source and that customer service interactions are right first time.
With so many badly affected, there is a clear call for boardrooms to focus on upskilling staff and implementing 
processes to ensure positive customer experiences should future problems arise. The combined impact on 
employee productivity and wellbeing translates into tangible loss for employers and the economy. The onus is on 
airlines to improve customer service skills to protect the productivity of the UK workforce.
Jo Causon
CEO, Institute of Customer Service
Letter in response to this letter:
Airline took customer service to a new level / From John MacDonald, Dubai, UAE
Poor customer service harms the UK economy
Load-Date: October 13, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet flags upbeat profits despite hit from sterling
EasyJet flags upbeat profits despite hit from sterling
 
FT.com
October 6, 2017 Friday 6:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 284 words
Byline: Hugo Greenhalgh
Body
EasyJet is bucking a grim environment for budget airlines, stating on Friday that its profits are likely to be at the 
upper end of the range it had previously signalled.
Despite a £100m currency hit in the wake of the Brexit referendum, profits for the year ending in September are 
expected to be between £405m and £410m, it said, after posting record passenger numbers over the summer.
That is still a fall from the £495m recorded in 2016, and down from £686m in 2015, but it forms a bright contrast to 
the collapse of  Monarch Airlines and a fiasco over             flight cancellations by Ryanair.
Over the three months to the end of September, easyJet flew 24.1m passengers, with capacity reaching a high of 
95.6 per cent. The headline cost per seat, a particularly important metric for low-cost airlines, is expected to grow by 
around 1 per cent, excluding fuel and at constant currency. However, including fuel, this figure is expected to fall by 
4.4 per cent. Overall, the company’s fuel bill is expected to drop by £230m-£235m compared with the previous 
financial year.
Net cash levels remain high, in advance of a year of “significant investment in new aircraft”, EasyJet said.
Carolyn McCall, chief executive of EasyJet, said:
The market continues to be challenging and easyJet has had to absorb a significant currency impact of £100m 
in the year. However, easyJet continues to operate Europe’s strongest network and the current turmoil in the 
EasyJet flags upbeat profits despite hit from sterling
sector provides easyJet with opportunities to capitalise on its strong customer proposition and grow and 
strengthen our positions in Europe’s leading airports still further.
EasyJet will publish its full-year results and outlook for 2018 on 21 November.
(Image: Bloomberg)
 
Load-Date: October 6, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: EasyJet bucks the budget airline trend
Opening Quote: EasyJet bucks the budget airline trend
 
FT.com
October 6, 2017 Friday 7:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1186 words
Byline: Siona Jenkins
Body
EasyJet bucks the budget airline trend. FT Opening Quote is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for 
the full newsletter here.
EasyJet is bucking a  grim environment for budget airlines, stating on Friday that its profits are likely to be at the 
upper end of the range it had previously signalled.
Despite a £100m currency hit in the wake of the Brexit referendum, profits for the year ending in September are 
expected to be between £405m and £410m, it said, after posting record passenger numbers over the summer.
That is still a fall from the £495m recorded in 2016, and down from £686m in 2015, but it forms a bright contrast to 
the collapse of  Monarch Airlines and a fiasco over             flight cancellations by Ryanair.
Over the three months to the end of September, easyJet flew 24.1m passengers, with capacity reaching a high of 
95.6 per cent. The headline cost per seat, a particularly important metric for low-cost airlines, is expected to grow by 
around 1 per cent, excluding fuel and at constant currency. However, including fuel, this figure is expected to fall by 
4.4 per cent. Overall, the company’s fuel bill is expected to drop by £230m-£235m compared with the previous 
financial year.
Net cash levels remain high, in advance of a year of “significant investment in new aircraft”, EasyJet said.
Opening Quote: EasyJet bucks the budget airline trend
UK wealth and asset management consultancy Alpha FMC will start trading on London’s junior market next week 
with a  valuation of £163m after the group said it had commitments of £125m for its IPO, towards the top of its 
target range.
The group, which advises fund managers struggling with a regulatory overhaul of the industry and competition from 
passive funds, said last month it hoped to raise between £110m and £130m from its float on Aim, valuing the 
company around £150m.
The listing provides an exit for private equity house Dunedin, which invested £80m in the company last year, and 
proceeds will be used to pay down debt and fund expansion.
Shares in Alpha FMC start trading on October 11.
Finally, Matthew Vincent writes: Theresa May is doubtless cursing the designer behind her  disintegrating 
conference set. But this column holds the prime minister personally responsible for another decor debacle: 
increased use of ‘throws’. You know, those awful blanket-type things that people will drape over an old sofa, rather 
than buying a new one. Or (inexplicably) even over a new one.
On Thursday, furniture maker DFS provided compelling evidence that Mrs May’s snap election and Brexit stance 
have sent  sofa sales tumbling like the poorly-adhered letters of a Tory party slogan. In this zero-sum game, sales 
of ‘throws’ can only have risen. Lombard therefore feels a need to point out that ‘throw’ is principally a transitive 
verb, and can only ever take ‘a throw’ as its object if its target is the nearest skip.
For DFS, though —  like Mrs May — it is too late: the damage has been done. In August, it warned that the 
“uncertain economic environment and unexpected general election” had depressed its earnings to “the low end” of 
a £82m-£87m range, which itself had been lowered only two months previously. On Thursday, its preliminary 
results to July 29 revealed that “low-end” meant             bottom.
DFS put its miscalculations down to a sudden change in consumer mood in 2017, as economic realities hit home 
and homeware. Customers became so reluctant to commit to big-ticket items after Christmas that sales growth of 
6.8 per cent in the first half collapsed to a 0.9 per cent rise over the full-year. It has not been alone in this. Sofa 
sellers Next and Dunelm have reported similar slowdowns. Decor retailer  Topps Tiles warned of a             3 per 
cent fall in quarterly sales this week.
At DFS, the hit was £20m greater in the second half as it was only hedged against a weaker pound up until 
December. It has since rectified this situation, but the outlook for sales does not make for any more comfortable 
reading. If anything, DFS’s sales forecasts look shabbier than rivals’. Dunelm, John Lewis and ScS have all 
indicated that late summer and early Autumn trading has improved. DFS spoke of “limited decline in year-on-year 
like-for-like order intake”.
Read the full Lombard column  here.
Beyond the Square Mile
Asia Pacific stocks were up following a banner day on Wall Street, where all three main US equity indices set 
record closing highs. The S&P 500 closed up 0.6 per cent on Thursday, its sixth consecutive closing high, to mark 
the benchmark index’s longest such streak since June 1997, according to Thomson Reuters data.
In Asia, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index continued to march higher, briefly touching its highest level since the end of 
2007. The index was up 0.4 per cent following the lunch break. Australia’s S&P 200 was up 1 per cent and Japan’s 
Topix rose 0.3 per cent.
The dollar was gaining further ground in Asia trading after currencies in the region lost to the greenback overnight. 
The dollar index measuring the currency against a basket of peers, was off 0.1 per cent at 91.094, still near a 
seven-week peak ahead of Friday’s US non-farm payrolls report.
Opening Quote: EasyJet bucks the budget airline trend
Japan’s yen was off 0.2 per cent at ¥112.98 per dollar, as was the Australian dollar off 0.6 per cent at $0.775.
Oil prices were lower in Asia on Friday after ending Thursday higher for the first time in four sessions amid talk that 
Saudi Arabia and Russia might limit production through next year. Brent crude, the global benchmark, was off 0.1 
per cent at $56.94. US marker West Texas Intermediate was off 0.1 per cent as well at $50.72.
Gold remained around a six-week low after the dollar’s strengthening in the previous session, trading flat in Asia at 
$1,267.10 per ounce.
Intraday
In New York later today, the S&P 500 is set to open flat.
Also in the US today, jobs data will be released. The Labour Department is expected to report that non-farm 
payrolls increased 98,000 in September after rising 156,000 in August.
Corporate updates for Friday include EasyJet.
The economic calendar is preparing for the weekend (all times London):
07.00: Germany industrial orders
07.00: Norway manufacturing production
07.45: France trade balance
08.00: Spain industrial production
08.30: Halifax UK house prices
09.00: Italy retail sales
The markets at 07:53
Asian markets
Nikkei 225 up +62.15 (+0.30%) at 20,691
Topix up +4.67 (+0.28%) at 1,687
Hang Seng up +47.00 (+0.17%) at 28,426
US markets
S&P 500 up +14.33 (+0.56%) at 2,552
DJIA up +113.75 (+0.50%) at 22,775
Nasdaq up +50.73 (+0.78%) at 6,585
European markets
Eurofirst 300 up +3.13 (+0.20%) at 1,537
FTSE100 up +40.41 (+0.54%) at 7,508
CAC 40 up +15.98 (+0.30%) at 5,379
Dax down -2.47 (-0.02%) at 12,968
Currencies
€/$ 1.17 (1.17)
$/¥ 112.94 (112.81)
£/$ 1.31 (1.31)
€/£ 0.8936 (0.8925)
Commodities ($)
Brent Crude (ICE) down -0.08 at 56.92
Light Crude (Nymex) down -0.12 at 50.67
Opening Quote: EasyJet bucks the budget airline trend
100 Oz Gold (Comex) down -2.80 at 1,267
Copper (Comex) unchanged 0.00 at 3.03
10-year government bond yields (%)
US 2.35%
Germany 0.46%
CDS (closing levels)
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe at 19.9bp
Markit iTraxx Europe -1.48bps at 55.36bp
Markit iTraxx Xover -4.15bps at 244.38bp
Markit CDX IG -1.11bps at 53.34bp
Sources: FT, Bloomberg, Markit
Load-Date: October 6, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet posts record passenger numbers over summer
EasyJet posts record passenger numbers over summer
 
FT.com
October 6, 2017 Friday 9:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 531 words
Byline: Hugo Greenhalgh
Body
EasyJet posted record passenger numbers over the summer as it benefited from the struggles of rivals in the 
fiercely competitive European short-haul airline market.
Monarch Airlines collapsed on Monday, the third carrier to fail in the region in six months after Air Berlin and Alitalia 
went into insolvency proceedings.
Despite a £100m currency hit in the wake of the  Brexit referendum, easyJet said pre-tax profits for the year ending 
in September are expected to be between £405m and £410m, at the upper end of the previously guided range.
Profits are still below the £495m recorded by the UK budget airline in 2016, and down from £686m in 2015, but form 
a bright contrast to the collapse of Monarch and the flight cancellation fiasco at Ryanair. 
During the three months to the end of September, easyJet, Europe’s second-largest European low-cost carrier, flew 
24.1m passengers, with capacity reaching a high of 95.6 per cent.
The headline cost per seat, a particularly important metric for low-cost airlines, is expected to grow by about 1 per 
cent, excluding fuel and at constant currency. 
However, including fuel, this figure is expected to fall by 4.4 per cent. Overall, the fuel bill is expected to drop by 
£230m-£235m compared with the previous financial year.
EasyJet posts record passenger numbers over summer
Carolyn McCall, chief executive, said the market continued to be challenging. “EasyJet has had to absorb a 
significant currency impact of £100m in the year,” she said. 
“However . . . the current turmoil in the sector provides easyJet with opportunities to capitalise on its strong 
customer proposition and grow and strengthen our positions in Europe’s leading airports still further.”
Monarch’s collapse marked the latest in a series of blows to Europe’s low-cost carriers. Alitalia filed for bankruptcy 
in May followed months later by Air Berlin. Ryanair’s crewing issues resulted in more than 2,000 flight cancellations.
“The European aviation industry needs to consolidate and easyJet is well positioned to capitalise on that,” said 
Andrew Charlton, managing director of Aviation Advocacy.
However, other analysts suggested easyJet’s profit projections could have been higher. “Fares have been rising in 
the short-haul market. There’s been a lot of disruption of competition and the stock has been rising,” said Rob Byde, 
analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. “Some investors were expecting a little bit more.”
In a note, RBC Capital Markets suggested that the coming months could prove “more unstable — as players jostle 
for position as Air Berlin, Monarch and Alitalia capacity/slots come up for grabs”.
EasyJet expects to increase capacity by 6 per cent over the next 12 months to September 2018, down from 8 per 
cent the year before. 
“We expect continued pressure on yields reflecting ongoing market capacity growth that is currently forecast to be 
around 5 per cent in the first quarter,” the company said.
“Key for easyJet and the market is next summer,” said Stephen Furlong, analyst at Davy Research. “One of the 
reasons why revenues are down is that there’s too much capacity, but by next summer Alitalia and Monarch will 
have been absorbed. The key modus operandi for easyJet is to gain strong positions in core [airports].”
Load-Date: October 7, 2017
End of Document
Monarch collapse triggers air fare surge
Monarch collapse triggers air fare surge
 
FT.com
October 5, 2017 Thursday 4:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 891 words
Byline: Claer Barrett
Body
Have you been affected by the collapseof the UK’s fifth-biggest airline? Booking an all-inclusive package holiday or 
cheap flight with Monarch might not be the kind of break that appeals to you. Even if you have never donned a 
plastic bangle giving you unfettered access to a resort bar, Monarch’s debt-induced abdication will almost certainly 
increase costs for winter sun seekers.
Skyscanner, the comparison site for low-cost air fares, reports an average 23 per cent increase in the price of last-
minute flights to Europe for the month of October as about 750,000 passengers whose Monarch flights have been 
cancelled all rush to rebook. 
The increased demand for flights — particularly to Spanish airports — is expected to push prices up above 
seasonal norms until January or February next year, the website said. It has seen its “click through” rate to airline 
booking websites rise by 86 per cent in the fortnight since Monarch’s troubles began. 
Hardly surprising, then, that the share prices of rival airlines EasyJet, Ryanair and Wizz Air all soaredon news of 
Monarch’s administration this week (listed package holiday operators Tui and Thomas Cook also received a boost). 
Analysts at Bernstein predict that reduced competition on short-haul routes will improve yields for rival budget 
airlines, at least in the short term. 
For Monarch’s customers, this is as comforting as a paper bag of cold sick. Although consumer experts think most 
people will get their money back — eventually — in many cases it won’t be enough to rebook a similar trip. After the 
way that passengers were treated this week, this adds insult to injury.
Monarch collapse triggers air fare surge
Monarch called in the administrators at 4am on Monday morning (when all of its fleet was grounded). By this time, 
unsuspecting holidaymakers were already queueing to check in for flights they were destined never to board. 
Pictures appeared on the news of distraught families whose holidays were cancelled and guests at now-ruined 
foreign weddings.
They were all sent home from the airport and other travellers were warned to stay away. The UK authorities then 
mountedwhat it called the biggest peacetime repatriation. 
More than 110,000 holidaymakers will be flown home in coming weeks, an operation expected to costthe 
government about £60m. The Civil Aviation Authority has pledged to provide return flights to the UK for passengers 
who were booked to come back with Monarch before October 15.
Those who had flights and holidays booked must now begin their compensation battle — itself a complicated and 
long-winded journey.
Monarch’s package holidays would have been protected by Atol, the industry-funded protection scheme. The good 
news is you will get your money back (details of how to claim are on the  CAA website). The bad news is that 
experts are predicting this could take weeks or even months, and the price of rebooking similar holidays is 
increasing.
Far greater numbers — about 750,000 passengers — will be seeking to claim compensation from their bank, credit 
card or travel insurer for cancelled Monarch flights (these would not have had Atol protection if they were sold after 
December 15 2016). They will now have to rebook with another airline. 
Many caught up in the initial disruption will have lost days of their holidays, owe money to hotels and car hire 
companies and might have had to cancel their trips altogether. However, as Monarch customers are now finding to 
their cost, many travel insurers will not pay out in the event of airline failure.
About two-fifths of travel insurance policies do not automatically include this level of protection, according to 
research by Defaqto released this week. Sadly, this doesn’t surprise me. I wrote here last week about the 
“hollowing out” of insurance cover as price comparison websites point us towards the cheapest policies. Picking the 
lowest cost provider will mean some sacrifices in terms of what is covered — so check the small print. 
If you can’t claim for the cost of cancelled flights via your travel insurance, the next port of call should be your credit 
card provider. So long as the flight cost £100 or more, then you could make a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. 
This great — if little-known — piece of consumer protection legislation means the credit card provider is jointly liable 
if there is a problem with something you buy. Contact your card provider for details of how to make a claim.
Unlike other budget airlines, Monarch did not charge a fee for bookings made on credit cards. So there is reason to 
hope that more of its passengers may be entitled to this valuable protection. 
For those who paid by debit card, there is still hope in the form of the “chargeback” scheme offered by UK banks. 
This could get you a refund even if your flight cost less than £100, and many banks have publicly pledged to honour 
Monarch claims. Contact your bank for more details.
Finally, PayPal has its own buyer protection programme which consumers can claim against if they don’t receive 
the goods or services they have paid for — but you must claim within 180 days of payment. 
Get through all of that, and you will definitely need a holiday. But it is a crying shame that passengers who have had 
their holidays disrupted will now have to pay even more for the privilege. 
Claer Barrett is the editor of FT Money; ; Twitter:  @Claerb
Monarch collapse triggers air fare surge
Load-Date: December 15, 2017
End of Document
The rise of super airlines leaves consumers out of pocket
The rise of super airlines leaves consumers out of pocket
 
FT.com
October 5, 2017 Thursday 12:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 652 words
Byline: Philipp Goedeking
Body
The demise of Monarch Airlinesis the third time a European carrier has had to file for bankruptcy in the past six 
months. Before the UK operator came Germany’s Air Berlinand Italy’s Alitalia. Europe’s carriers are in crisis, you 
might think. Think again. 
Over the same period, the market capitalisation of other European  airlines — notably, Lufthansa, Air France-KLM, 
British Airways’ parent International Airlines Group, Ryanair and EasyJet — has risen, in some cases in the order of 
50 per cent. This illuminates a global trend. Smaller carriers find it increasingly difficult to compete against big 
carriers, and the latter are getting bigger. Bankruptcies are bad news for passengers and possibly disastrous for 
governments. 
As different as their business models are, hub-carriers such as BA and low-cost carriers like Ryanair live off cost 
advantages brought by scale-driven standardisation. The more planes, engines and procedures of the same kind, 
the cheaper it is to keep planes aloft. These rules of industrial competition suggest that there is nothing wrong with 
big airlines getting bigger, and smaller, less efficient ones disappearing from an over-supplied market. 
The problem is that Air Berlin and Alitalia showed that “market exits” are anything but: aircraft and crew of failed 
airlines are mopped up by big rivals, increasing dominant positions, or even (near) monopolies, on key routes. 
Just as Lufthansa looks set to get the lion’s share of Air Berlin, and Ryanair — at least until its staffing crisis — 
wanted to buy Alitalia, so EasyJet and IAG are reportedly eyeing Monarch. This is proof that market exits by one 
The rise of super airlines leaves consumers out of pocket
brand do not reduce over-capacity. Instead, they increase market dominance and the monopolisation of routes — in 
this case, exclusively by Europe’s big five.
These European examples are case studies in the structural counter-competitiveness of the global airline industry. 
The creation of more “super carriers” is replacing competitive strategy with monopolies: Air Berlin and Alitalia finally 
bowed to market forces only after their common anchor investor, state-owned airline Etihad from the United Arab 
Emirates, pulled the plug on the investments. 
In this era of super carriers, air travellers will have fewer, costlier options, and governments could end up with 
distressed airlines that they have to declare “too big to fail”, at vast expense to taxpayers. In these conditions, 
governments and citizens, as travellers and taxpayers, should be natural allies. 
Sadly, any alignment of interest between government and consumers is trounced by the mutual dependency of a 
region or country with the carrier serving it. No economic centre can exist without airline services, and hardly any 
airline can stay in business without backing from “home” nations or regions. The best example of this is the 
increasing readiness of governments to grant carriers monopolies in certain markets. These antitrust immunisations 
allow carriers — one from each country, say — to agree fares and schedules on specific routes. These airlines no 
longer compete on the route, making it all but impossible for rivals to nose in.
Key to countering the erosion of competition is the humble slot, an airline’s right to land and take off from a specific 
airport at a specific time. Slots are precious — and what the big airlines are after when they absorb failed rivals. But 
what if slots reverted to the public upon insolvency? This would allow independent slot co-ordinators — who are 
woefully underused today — to award them to new entrants or smaller players. 
For the emerging super carriers, monopoly is the easy way to create scale and avoid the strains and stresses of 
open competition. For the travellers of the world, monopoly is a sure path to higher fares and poorer service. It is 
time for them to wise up.
The writer is managing partner of Avinomics, a Frankfurt-based airline consultancy 
Load-Date: October 6, 2017
End of Document
UK faces £60m bill following collapse of Monarch
UK faces £60m bill following collapse of Monarch
 
FT.com
October 3, 2017 Tuesday 11:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 525 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
The UK government will be hit with a £60m bill to bring home the 110,000 holidaymakers stranded overseas after 
the collapse of Monarch Airlines, the UK’s fifth-biggest airline. 
The low-cost carrier and tour operator entered administration in the early hours of Monday morning, which saw the 
UK’s aviation regulator start Britain’s “biggest ever peacetime repatriation” to fly back customers over the next two 
weeks. 
The Department for Transport said it would look to reduce the £60m cost to taxpayers by sharing some of the bill 
with credit card companies and tour operators. 
The Civil Aviation Authority is to charter more than 30 aircraft to bring Monarch customers back to the UK. On 
Monday, it completed 61 flights, returning 11,843 people. On Tuesday, it plans to bring another 11,000 customers 
back to the UK.
The operation is planned to finish on October 15, which will see the majority — about 96 per cent — of Monarch’s 
customers brought back to the UK. 
Monarch customers who miss the October 15 deadline will either be brought home on another  airline’s flight if they 
are protected under the Atol scheme, or will have to book their own flight if they are not covered under the 
packaged holiday licence. 
UK faces £60m bill following collapse of Monarch
Administrators from KPMG were appointed in the early hours of Monday morning after the carrier and tour operator 
held emergency talks at the weekend with regulators over Monarch’s future. All of its 750,000 future bookings have 
been cancelled.
The administrators said on Monday evening that 1,858 employees out of 2,100 at Monarch Airlines and Monarch 
Travel Group had been made redundant.
The focus of KPMG will turn to the sale of Monarch’s assets, which will largely centre around the airline’s slots at 
UK airports, in particular its valuable London Gatwick airport slots. Analysts have estimated that Monarch has about 
5 per cent of the Gatwick slot pool. 
Other Monarch assets up for sale include prepaid fuel, property, plant and equipment. KPMG said negotiations 
would continue with a number of interested parties in relation to Monarch’s airport slots and other assets.
Airlines are likely to move fast to hire Monarch’s staff, particularly its pilots. This could help ease staffing pressures 
at Ryanair, where pilot shortages have seen Europe’s biggest low-cost airline cancel about 20,000 flights over the 
next five months. 
Ryanair said on Tuesday that it had continued to grow its passenger traffic in September despite the cancellations. 
Traffic climbed 10 per cent year-on-year in September to 11.8m, matching the pace from the previous month. Load 
factor, an important gauge for how efficient the airline is at filling its seats, climbed to 97 per cent from 95 per cent in 
the same month last year.
Meanwhile, Virgin Atlantic on Monday announced a fast-track scheme to help Monarch pilots gain employment at 
the airline. It is looking for pilots to join its fleet as First Officers. 
The collapse of Monarch is the third failure of a European airline in six months. Both Air Berlin and Alitalia went into 
insolvency proceedings this summer as intense competition in Europe’s short-haul market has put pressure on 
weaker carriers.
Load-Date: October 6, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: Taxi for Uber’s UK boss! Royal Mail; Ryanair vs Monarch
Opening Quote: Taxi for Uber’s UK boss! Royal Mail; Ryanair vs Monarch
 
FT.com
October 3, 2017 Tuesday 7:11 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1016 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Have you ever dreaded a meeting so much that you wished you could just resign instead and not have to go? This 
is not the reason why Uber’s UK boss has quit, ahead of the taxi app’s crunch meeting with London’s transport 
regulators later today. But Jo Bertram, who resigned a few weeks ago to seek new challenges, might recognise the 
feeling. And feel the relief.
She will now not have to accompany Uber’s new chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi as he tries to persuade 
Transport for London boss Mike Brown that the US group can change and become a “fit and proper operator” – 
avoiding the loss of its operating license in the capital.
As head of Uber’s northern European markets, Ms Bertram had been a primary point of contact with TfL on 
regulatory matters.
But yesterday, it emerged that she had told colleagues:
Given some of our current challenges, I’m . . . convinced that now is the right time to have a change of face, 
and to hand over to someone who will be here for the long haul and take us into the next phase.
Mr Khosrowshahi believes that, even in the absence of a UK boss, his meeting today can be the start of 
“constructive dialogue”, if not a full resolution of Uber’s issues in London, according to people familiar with the 
company.
Opening Quote: Taxi for Uber’s UK boss! Royal Mail; Ryanair vs Monarch
He has already promised to transform the corporate culture at Uber and issued an open apology to Londoners after 
TfL threatened to revoke the company’s licence.
News of his initial TfL meeting is expected to come later today.
Royal Mail is also braced for news of a potentially damaging dispute a little later today.
Some time around 4.30pm, the Communication Workers’ Union will communicate the result of a ballot for industrial 
action – which could result in the first nationwide strikes at Royal Mail since privatisation four years ago.
Given that the union has already sent invitations to a big press conference in central Manchester – right by the 
Conservative Party conference – it seems safe to assume a “yes” vote is expected.
It has balloted members on pensions, pay and job security and says the issues at the heart of the dispute involve 
more than 110,000 postal workers.
Industry watchers will note it is the first national ballot to test the new voting thresholds introduced by the 
Conservative government last year as part of the Trade Union Act.
Critics will argue that strike action only risks losing business to delivery services in the so-called gig economy – 
transferring work from better paid Royal Mail jobs to lower paid freelance roles.
Before all that, however, some more upbeat industry news. Ferguson, the plumbing and heating supply company 
company formerly known as Wolseley, has posted a 9 per cent increase in both full-year revenue and trading profit 
at its ongoing businesses.
In total, group revenue came in at £17.3bn, including £2.1bn from discontinued operations, while trading profit 
reached £1.1bn.
In its results, the group – which has changed its name to that of its American operation, to reflect its geographical 
focus – said US revenue grew 10 per cent at constant exchange rates, with continued market share gains. Its US 
business now accounts for more than 80 per cent of trading profit.
In the UK, Ferguson said its transformation was “continuing”, but trading profit was only “stable in difficult markets”. 
Meanwhile, the disposal of its Nordics business is progressing as planned, and 11 bolt-on acquisitions – at a cost of 
£292m – were made in the full year, with another five since the year end.
With the proceeds from other disposals now realised, the group also said its strong financial position would enable 
a £500m share buyback programme over the next 12 months. Ferguson added that it will continue to target net debt 
in the range of one to two times earnings.
Chief executive John Martin said:
US markets continue to be favourable, in particular residential and commercial markets where we generate the 
majority of our revenue. Organic revenue growth3 in the new financial year has been about 6%. Our business 
is performing well, we have a strong balance sheet to support our plans and the Board continues to look to the 
medium-term with confidence.
And, finally, why budget airline Monarch collapsed, part 94: rival Ryanair has just reported a 10 per cent rise in 
passenger numbers in September – despite cancelling thousands of flights. Last month, traffic was up year-on-year 
to 11.8m, in line with the previous month. Load factor, which measures the how efficiently the airline is filling its 
planes, climbed to 97 per cent from 95 per cent in the same month last year.
These figures even include the 2,100 – yes, 2,100 – flight cancellations announced for September and October, the 
group said.
Opening Quote: Taxi for Uber’s UK boss! Royal Mail; Ryanair vs Monarch
It was forced to cancel the flights after messing up a change to its pilots’ holiday roster – and finding pilots unwilling 
to give up time off. More than 300,000 travellers were initially affected.
Ryanair’s ability to keep growing – for now – despite these failings shows just how competitive the low-cost airline 
market has become. Monarch, a rival budget airline, fell  into administration yesterday having incurred sustained 
losses.
Today’s Lombard column focuses on Monarch and its employees:
First BHS, and now Monarch. Two companies as redolent of the 1970s as brushed polyester, brown geometric 
patterns, swimming trunks with belts, and final salary pensions. Many of their customers thought it fine to combine 
the first three. Many of their staff thought it fine to contribute to the fourth. It is hard to know who to feel sorrier for.
With Monarch collapsing into administration, following BHS’s demise in 2016, it is — like a bather tightening that 
belt — easy to see the parallels. A failure to adapt to changing consumer tastes. A family owner desperate to sell at 
any price. A growing pension deficit creating anger over the ensuing deal.
But the fate of the two companies’ pension schemes is where BHS and Monarch differ…
Read the rest of today’s Lombard column  here.
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for 
the full newsletter here.
Load-Date: October 3, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair traffic growth continues apace despite booking turbulence
Ryanair traffic growth continues apace despite booking turbulence
 
FT.com
October 3, 2017 Tuesday 6:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 154 words
Byline: Adam Samson
Body
Ryanair continued growing its passenger traffic in September despite the rounds of cancellations that have 
triggered criticism over the discount airline.
Traffic climbed 10 per cent year-over-year in September to 11.8m, matching the pace from the previous month. 
Load factor, an important gauge for how efficient the airline is at filling its seats, climbed to 97 per cent from 95 per 
cent in the same month last year.
The figures released on Tuesday include the 2,100 flight cancellations announced for September and October, the 
group said.
Ireland-based Ryanair has been  lodged in a scandalover the past few weeks after a snafu with scheduling holidays 
for its pilots caused it to cancel thousands of flights in a move that affected at least 400,000 travellers.
The flight statistics from Ryanair come a day after Monarch, a rival budget airline, fell  into administration, collapsing 
under the intense industry competition.
Load-Date: October 3, 2017
End of Document
Monarch Airlines : flying on vapour
Monarch Airlines: flying on vapour
 
FT.com
October 2, 2017 Monday 12:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 405 words
Body
The 110,000 passengers stranded by the collapse of Monarch Airlines are unlikely to view it as an educative case 
study. Still, by falling into administration, the UK low-cost carrier has illustrated the problem of loss chasing. This is 
the propensity of investors to throw good money after bad into businesses they have already backed, hoping to 
save their stake.
Greybull Capital put more than £75m into Monarch when it took control in 2014. The turnround specialist made a 
series of other investments, culminating in a £165m equity injection last year. Greybull saw Monarch’s future as 
cheap, long-haul travel. It did not have the financial fuel to pursue that flight path properly. 
The first problem was that a fall in the pound after the Brexit vote pushed up dollar costs. The second was a drop in 
seat prices for flights to Monarch’s short-haul Iberian destinations. Rival airlines increased capacity on these routes 
as travellers shied away from Turkey and north Africa in the wake of terrorist attacks.
Both problems were well known at the time Greybull announced its gutsy decision to pump further equity into 
Monarch a year ago. We must surmise that the investor, which manages the wealth of the Meyohas and Perlhagen 
families, underestimated the scale of both challenges. These have left the company, which notched up a cash 
outflow of £35m in 2016 before investment, with a deficit of about £200m this year. Greybull stands to lose about 
£250m.
The Monarch brand proved less compelling than Greybull had figured. Short-haul European flying is price sensitive 
and dominated by operators such as Ryanair and easyJet. Their superior economies of scale put Monarch at a 
disadvantage.
Monarch Airlines : flying on vapour
Greybull may suffer reflexive criticism as the Monarch blame game begins. The owner’s real fault was to over 
commit. Interest on about £145m in shareholder loans was rolled up for later payment, for example. 
The collapse is uncomfortably timed for the UK’s ruling Conservative party. This week it is attempting to defend 
capitalism from Labour attacks. Monarch’s woes show markets remain adept at weeding out weak businesses and 
redeploying their assets to stronger ones. But you should not expect to hear that line in the Tory conference hall, 
any more than chat about loss chasing in airport lounges.
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. What do you think of the Monarch collapse? Please tell us 
in the comments section below.
Load-Date: October 5, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair rebounds on hopes of Airbnb tie-up
Ryanair rebounds on hopes of Airbnb tie-up
 
FT.com
October 2, 2017 Monday 5:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 448 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Ryanair rebounded from a five-month low on Monday, helped by speculation of a tie-up with  Airbnb.
Ryanair and peers were in demand after the failure of Monarch Airlines raised hopes of capacity cuts and improved 
pricing power. 
The loss of Alitalia, Air Berlin and Monarch flights, along with Ryanair’s own cancellations, mean European short-
haul capacity growth for winter could be just 3.2 per cent rather than the 7.3 per cent expected a week ago, HSBC 
estimated.
Meanwhile, Merrill Lynch analysts saw “a high likelihood” that Ryanair will soon agree a cross-selling deal with 
Airbnb as a means to drive booking volumes and “capture a lucrative part of the value chain”. 
Merrill put a €20 target on Ryanair, which closed 3.9 per cent higher at €16.90.
“It is hard to paint a scenario where Ryanair loses the market share war we expect to see in the coming years,” 
Merrill said. 
“For example, if capacity continues to increase, Ryanair benefits (as a function of its cost advantage). Likewise, if 
others capitulate, Ryanair benefits. And even if fuel prices were to rise, Ryanair would benefit (the most hedged; the 
least financially geared).”
Ryanair rebounds on hopes of Airbnb tie-up
EasyJet was top performer in the FTSE 100, up 5.2 per cent to £12.80, while Wizz Air was up 4.6 per cent to £30 
and IAG, the British Airways owner, rose 2.4 per cent to 607.5p. 
The FTSE 100 rose 0.9 per cent, or 66.08 points, to 7,438.84.
Housebuilders jumped in response to a pledge from Prime Minister Theresa May to allocate a further £10bn to keep 
the Help To Buy mortgage subsidy scheme running beyond 2021. 
Persimmon rose 4.2 per cent to £26.90 and Barratt Developments added 4.2 per cent to 640.5p. 
Nex Group, the market maker formerly known as ICAP, dropped 5.6 per cent to 625p on a warning that margins 
were being held back by hiked investment costs and low volatility. 
Sandwich maker Greencore was 7.2 per cent lower at 182p, a four-year low, after US regulators found listeria in 
deliveries to its Rhode Island factory. 
Greencore said it had  voluntarily recalled about three days of production as a precautionary measure.
Numis estimated $300,000 in lost sales for Greencore’s US business, against revenue for the division of £913m this 
year. 
The stock’s sharp drop may reflect “concerns over Greencore’s ability to win new business to fill its legacy sites”, 
Numis said.
Aggreko, the generator hire specialist, lost 5.5 per cent to 887.5p after Berenberg downgraded to “sell” with a 770p 
target price. 
Consensus forecasts are “far too optimistic” for Aggreko’s emerging markets-focused utility business, where pricing 
remains tough and the company “needs to see a significant increase in contract wins just to stand still”, said 
Berenberg.
Load-Date: October 3, 2017
End of Document
Monarch’s bumpy ride ends in failure
Monarch’s bumpy ride ends in failure
 
FT.com
October 2, 2017 Monday 5:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1090 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Javier Espinoza
Body
Monarch has teetered on the brink of collapse several times before. But on this occasion the UK budget airline that 
filed for administration in the early hours of Monday morning failed to find a saviour.
The British carrier and tour operator finally ran out of options and money to turn round its business, becoming the 
latest victim of a cut-throat European short-haul market.
Like its peers, Air Berlin and Alitalia, which both entered administration this summer, Monarch has been unable to 
compete in Europe, coming up against much larger airlines who have much lower cost bases. Low fuel prices have 
encouraged stronger rivals to flood the market with capacity, putting pressure on weaker operators.
“Monarch had somewhat lost its way in recent years, trying to reinvent itself as a low-cost carrier but in a market 
already well supplied by dominant players like Ryanair and easyJet,” says John Strickland, an aviation consultant.
The airline, founded in 1968 by the Swiss-Italian Mantegazza family as package holidays boomed, had been a 
profitable business for the large part of its early history — until charter flying started to decline amid competition 
from low-cost carriers and the increasing ease of assembling holidays online.
But in the past five years, Monarch, the UK’s fifth-largest airline, has struggled to navigate a successful path.
In the past three years alone, it has been saved from collapse twice with emergency cash injections from London-
based investment group, Greybull Capital, which bought the airline in 2014 two hours away from insolvency. In 
total, Greybull, which has also acquired and revived Tata Steel’s Scunthorpe plant, has ploughed funds into 
Monarch’s bumpy ride ends in failure
Monarch on nine separate occasions. Before that the Mantegazza family had invested £115m into refinancing the 
airline.
Under Greybull’s ownership, Monarch ditched its longstanding business model as a charter airline and repositioned 
itself as a budget carrier that would compete with easyJet and Ryanair for holidaymakers. It cut about 700 jobs, 
reduced its fleet and scrapped long-haul flights, helping to cut £200m in annual costs. 
It also struck a deal with the Pension Protection Fund, through which the lifeboat took a 10 per cent stake in the 
business and assumed responsibility for the £158m pension scheme deficit.
While the restructuring brought some initial success — alongside cheap fuel prices and a weak euro, it helped 
Monarch deliver its first profit in three yearsin 2015 — this was ultimately shortlived.
Key dates at Monarch
1968
Group is founded by the Mantegazza brothers and based at Luton
2014
Greybull Capital buys the airline just two hours away from insolvency
2016
Greybull injects £165m to help the airline retain its flying licence
Recently, the group has suffered from the impact of terrorist attacks in Egypt, Turkey and Tunisia, which hit tourism 
in those countries, resulting in more airlines putting on flights from Britain to Spain, Monarch’s largest destination. 
Meanwhile, a weaker pound since the UK’s vote to leave the EU added further costs. Almost all of Monarch’s airline 
revenues were in sterling but it had significant costs in both US dollars and other European currencies.
In October 2016, Greybull injected £165m to help the airline retain its flying license, as chief executive Andrew 
Swaffield warned of a “challenging market”.
Mr Swaffield said that money, the biggest investment in the company’s history, would enable it to “really approach 
the future with great confidence”.
Since then the market has grown tougher, with people close to Greybull arguing they were at the receiving end of 
“massive external pressures”, including a drop in the value of the pound and a sharp fall in revenues as ticket prices 
dropped because of rising competition.
In the year to October 2016,  Monarch reported a statutory loss of £291m, compared with a profit of £27m in 2015. 
The company told staff on Monday that this year it was carrying 14 per cent more passengers than last year for 
£100m less revenue.
Data from OAG, an aviation consultancy, show how the airline had to move about 213,000 seats from Egypt into 
other, more competitive, markets, such as Spain and Portugal, taking it head-to-head with the big low-cost carriers.
John Grant, a consultant, says “Egypt and to a lesser degree Turkey provided Monarch with some degree of 
protection” as journey times were too long for the more aggressive low-cost carriers.
In its annual report, published in July, Monarch said it was once again reviewing its strategy, with a plan to move 
away from short-haul market and return to its old long-haul business model. The group had looked into selling its 
short-haul business but received “no deliverable offer”.
Monarch’s bumpy ride ends in failure
On Saturday the CAA gave the group just 24 hours to raise fresh funds; Greybull was unable to secure a deal in 
time. One airline industry source close to the discussions says it became evident that Monarch had “more liabilities 
than it had assets”.
Greybull stands to lose about £250m in both equity and debt as a result of the airline’s failure. “It’s close to a total 
write-off,” says one person briefed on the process.
“The thing about the airline industry is that airlines that are widely considered to be financially doomed have been 
kept alive for years and years if someone is able or willing to inject capital,” says Gerald Khoo, an analyst at 
Liberum. “Both Alitalia and Air Berlin fell into that category too.”
Some commentators say Monarch’s failure highlights that there is no place for a “mid-market” carrier that is not 
protected by either some geographic or operational quirk. “Monarch, Air Berlin, Alitalia . . . others fall into that space 
and over time the inevitable happens,” says Mr Grant.
For its administrators, KPMG, Monarch’s lucrative London Gatwick airport slots will be key in recovering any 
money.
Meanwhile Monarch’s rivals are likely to welcome any reduction of capacity from the competitive European short-
haul market. 
According to analysts at HSBC, a week ago that sector was expected to grow by 7.3 per cent this winter. Taking out 
capacity from Monarch, Air Berlin and Alitalia, as well as the recent Ryanair cancellations “lowers the market growth 
to 3.2 per cent”, wrote Andrew Lobbenberg at HSBC. For other short-haul airlines, this will mean less competition in 
the short term, bolstering yields.
For Monarch, it is too late. “Monarch was basically in the wrong place at the wrong time. It was sub-scale and failed 
to adapt to changes in a tough market,” says Mr Khoo.
Additional reporting by Josephine Cumbo
Load-Date: January 3, 2018
End of Document
Airline stocks take off after Monarch collapse
Airline stocks take off after Monarch collapse
 
FT.com
October 2, 2017 Monday 9:19 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 177 words
Byline: Nicholas Megaw
Body
Never let a good crisis go to waste.
Shares in UK airlines and tour operators climbed on Monday morning, as investors hope to benefit from the 
collapse of rival  Monarch Airlines.
More than 100,000 holidaymakers were left stranded overseas as Monarch was placed in administration in the early 
hours of Monday morning, after the company struggled to cope with rising costs and competition.
The news highlights the challenges facing the sector – it is the third European airline to collapse since the start of 
the summer – but investors were hoping Monarch’s surviving rivals would be able to take advantage of the gap.
Easyjet was the biggest riser on the FTSE 100, climbing 3.9 per cent to £12.64, while shares in Ryanair rose 2.1 
per cent to €16.67.
Central and eastern Europe-focused carrier Wizz Air topped the mid-cap FTSE 250 with a 3 per cent rise, while 
Thomas Cook also climbed 2.7 per cent.
Although low-cost carriers were the biggest beneficiaries, British Airways owner IAG also rose faster than the wider 
market, with shares in the company up 1.6 per cent.
Load-Date: October 2, 2017
Airline stocks take off after Monarch collapse
End of Document
Ryanair still flies a flag of contempt for customers
Ryanair still flies a flag of contempt for customers
 
FT.com
September 29, 2017 Friday 5:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 608 words
Body
Our booking system is full of people who swore they would never fly with us again,” an unrepentant Michael 
O’Leary boasted last week, just a moment after offering his “unreserved apology” for themess over pilot rostersthat 
led Ryanair to cancel flights affecting more than 700,000 passengers. 
The Irish airline’s abrasive chief executive has a point. He has always acted on the principle that passengers will 
put up with anything so long as the flight lands safely and the price is low enough. He has repeatedly been proved 
right.  Ryanair thrived despite its reputation for chaotic queues, invasive advertising, aggressive baggage checks 
and infuriating add-on charges. It pioneered many of the tactics by which low-cost airlines have upended their 
industry and proved that short-haul carriers can make money. 
But even Ryanair found there was a point at which poor customer service impinges on growth. In 2013, Mr O’Leary 
declared his intent to “eliminate things that unnecessarily piss people off”. The aim was to pitch for more lucrative 
business passengers, who demand a modicum of comfort and set store by punctuality — and it paid off. 
Yet Mr O’Leary’s instinctive contempt for customers and employees appears to be intact — and ingrained in 
Ryanair’s corporate culture. This ought to be a concern for both regulators and shareholders. 
It is still not clear why a relatively minor change in regulation — counting pilots’ flying hours over a calendar rather 
than a fiscal year — should have caused so much disruption. Ryanair rejects suggestions that it does not have 
enough pilots and is struggling to retain them. But Mr O’Leary workforce relations are clearly delicate. It is also 
apparent that there is no slack at all in the system. Zero frills is one thing; but a bare bones approach to operational 
matters is more worrying.
Ryanair still flies a flag of contempt for customers
The mistakes that caused the cancellations are minor, though, next to the airline’s flagrant attempt to ignore its legal 
obligations to passengers. Mr O’Leary said openly at first that Ryanair would not pay to book people on to flights 
with other airlines where necessary, nor would it reimburse expenses incurred as a result of the cancellations. This 
was inexcusable. As the head of the Civil Aviation Authority put it: “People shouldn’t have to choose between low 
fares and legal rights.”
Ryanair has now recanted, saying on Friday it had met regulators and agreed steps to fulfil its obligations and 
ensure passengers were aware of their rights. This will probably be enough to avert the CAA’s threat of legal action. 
Mr O’Leary insists there will be no lasting repercussions, and no impact on this year’s profits. Investors seem to 
agree: the share price has dipped, but is still 30 per cent higher than a year ago. 
It is true that Ryanair can easily absorb the immediate cost of compensating passengers. The airline may need to 
hire more crew as well as raising pilot pay but, even after this, its operating costs will be much lower than those of 
its nearest rivals. A recent ruling by the European Court of Justice, which will allow cabin crew to pursue claims in 
the countries where they are based, and not only in Irish courts, is a bigger threat to its business model. 
Nonetheless, Mr O’Leary should not assume the affair will blow over. Passengers have short memories but 
business travellers pay for reliability. And the airline is under pressure from European authorities who think the 
favourable tax treatment it receives in Ireland, and its use of Irish employment law, allows it to undercut rivals 
unfairly. Conciliation is not Mr O’Leary’s style, but it might be worth his while to try it for a change. 
Load-Date: October 2, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair flies into customer storm of its own making
Ryanair flies into customer storm of its own making
 
FT.com
September 29, 2017 Friday 12:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 564 words
Byline: Brooke Masters, Companies Editor
Body
Has Ryanair finally gone too far? For years the fast growing European budget airline seemed to take pride in how 
badly it treated its customers and staff.
Over the years, its irascible chief executive Michael O’Leary has referred to passengers as “morons”, insisting that 
“we don’t want to hear your sob stories”. The Irish carrier is famous for layering on fees for everything from talking 
to a human being to carrying on bags. Mr O’Leary even publicly mused about charging for use of the toilet. 
On the staff side, he has boasted about how little he pays pilots. Analysts say Ryanair uses thinner staffing levels 
than rivals, and it has lower ratings on employee satisfaction website Glassdoor.
And yet the carrier keeps growing — from 650,000 passengers a year in 1991 to a projected 130m this year. 
Customers have been willing to put up with the hassle and disdain in exchange for dirt cheap flights. Ryanair in May 
predicted full-year profits would top €1.4bn
But now that rising trajectory is under threat. Ryanair has had to cancel thousands of flights affecting more than 
700,000 passengers as it struggles to cope with a staffing shortage. The airline blames a regulatory change in the 
rules around pilot holidays for its decision to cancel 50 flights a day for six weeks and then suspend 34 routes, 
grounding 25 of its 400 planes to the end of April. 
Ryanair flies into customer storm of its own making
Investor reaction so far has been relatively sanguine — the airline’s shares are down 16 per cent from their August 
all-time peak, but are still up 30 per cent over the past 12 months. Mr O’Leary comfortably won re-election to the 
board with 99 per cent of votes cast last week. 
Ryanair has said the cancellations will cost less than €50m all together but its management and investors may well 
be missing three critical points.
Authorities in key hubs are taking notice. The UK Civil Aviation Authority has accused the carrier of misleading 
cancelled passengers about their rights, and Italy has launched an inquiry into alleged violations of consumer rights. 
If Ryanair is forced to do more on consumer care, that could drive costs.
The carrier’s years of squeezing its staff have done little to build loyalty. Its pilots have already turned down an offer 
that would have given them a bonus in exchange for waiving a week of holiday time and agreeing to stay on for a 
year. Other carriers including Norwegian are growing and recruiting actively. Watch out for employee turnover to hit 
performance and, again, costs.
Most importantly, the cancellations threaten a crucial but often overlooked part of Ryanair’s appeal: it may be rude 
but it used to be reliable. Its planes play a recorded trumpet every time they arrive on time, and its performance was 
comparable with more expensive rivals. Some 83 per cent of flights were on time in July. But pilot rota troubles 
pushed that below 80 per cent in early August, and the confusing way the first cancellations were announced 
initially left 18m people wondering if their flights would be grounded. The second round further undermined 
passenger trust. Consumer group Which? complained the carrier had “effectively cancelled Christmas”. 
Airline customers will forgive many things — even at United, which beat and forcibly removed a passenger from a 
plane in April. But they do want to get where they are going. Who would do a deal with the devil if his planes cannot 
be counted on to fly?
Load-Date: October 2, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair bows to regulator pressure over customer rights
Ryanair bows to regulator pressure over customer rights
 
FT.com
September 29, 2017 Friday 5:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 655 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has bowed to pressure from regulators to inform thousands of passengers of their full rights to 
compensation for cancelled flights. 
The Irish low-cost airline on Friday updated its website and sent out emails to affected customers explaining they 
have the option of claiming for extra expenses incurred as a result of the cancellations, as well as the option of 
being re-routed on other airlines. 
Britain’s aviation authority this week accused Ryanair of persistently misleading passengers on their rights after 
cancelling thousands of flights over the past two weeks. The Civil Aviation Authority on Wednesday said it was 
expediting enforcement action against Ryanair, the first step towards court action if breaches of consumer 
protection law persist.
The CAA ordered the low-cost carrier to say publicly how it will re-route passengers if required, as well as the 
criteria that it will apply to re-route passengers on other airlines. 
It also demanded that  Ryanair say how it will reimburse passengers for extra expenses, such as travel, food and 
hotel costs. The CAA gave it a deadline of 5pm on Friday to make these changes. 
The regulator said the airline had to spell out how it would help any of the passengers whose flights have been 
cancelled in the past two weeks, who were given an unsuitable option at the time because of misleading information 
from Ryanair. 
Ryanair bows to regulator pressure over customer rights
While Ryanair submitted to the regulator’s demands, it also hit out at the CAA over its approach with rival airlines.
“Ryanair has called upon the UK CAA to now require UK airlines to comply with these EU261 obligations which the 
CAA did not apply to British Airways in May this year, when a computer meltdown stranded hundreds of thousands 
of British citizens/visitors at London Heathrow and many other airports, with no apparent action taken by the CAA in 
respect of re-accommodation or enforcement against British Airways,” Ryanair wrote. 
A British Airways spokesperson rejected the claim: “We were, and remain, fully compliant with our EU261 
obligations in relation to customer compensation.”
Andrew Haines, CAA chief executive, said: “It appears that Ryanair has now capitulated. We will review their 
position in detail and monitor this situation to ensure that passengers get what they are entitled to in practice.”
He added: “We are consistent in this approach . . . as part of our ongoing work to protect consumers, earlier this 
month we wrote to over 30 airlines seeking confirmation that they too are complying with the re-routing elements of 
EC261 legislation.”
In a letter to Ryanair on Wednesday, the CAA said Michael O’Leary, chief executive, had wrongly claimed that the 
carrier was not obliged to find seats on alternative airlines for passengers on cancelled flights.
The action comes as the Irish carrier axed flights for a further 400,000 passengers travelling between November 
and March, less than two weeks after it cancelled up to 2,100 flights affecting about 315,000 flyers.
Mr Haines said: “There are clear laws in place, which are intended to assist passengers in the event of a 
cancellation.”
In its revised information, Ryanair said it will initially offer disrupted customers the next available Ryanair flight on 
the same route. If that option is not available, it will move the customer to the next available Ryanair flight from an 
alternative airport, and after that it will book the passenger a flight on one of its agreed disruption partner airlines, 
which includes easyJet, Jet2, Vueling, Cityjet, Aer Lingus, Norwegian or Eurowings. 
If none of these options are available on the same or next day, customers will be re-routed on any comparable 
alternative transport but it stated that the cost of this ticket will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. 
“We apologise again sincerely for the disruption and inconvenience our rostering failure has caused some of our 
customers,” said Kenny Jacobs, chief marketing officer of Ryanair. 
Load-Date: October 2, 2017
End of Document
UK regulator accuses Ryanair of misleading passengers after cancelling flights
UK regulator accuses Ryanair of misleading passengers after cancelling 
flights
 
FT.com
September 27, 2017 Wednesday 6:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 304 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
Britain’s aviation authority has accused Ryanair of persistently misleading passengers about their rights after 
cancelling thousands of flights over the last week.
The civil aviation authority on Wednesday said it was expediting enforcement action against the low cost carrier, the 
first step towards court action if breaches of consumer protection law persist.
In a letter to Ryanair, the CAA said chief executive Michael O’Leary had wrongly claimed that the carrier was not 
obliged to find seats on alternative airlines for passengers on cancelled flights. Despite a request last week to 
correct this inaccurate statement publicly Ryanair had so far not complied the CAA said.
The action comes as the Irish carrier  axed flights for a further 400,000 passengers travelling between November 
and March, less than two weeks after it cancelled up to 2,100 flights affecting about 315,000 flyers.
The CAA said information provided on the groups website today following the latest cancellations once again failed 
to make clear on the Ryanair’s legal obligations to passengers – including refunding all expenses incurred as a 
result of the flight cancellation.
Andre Haines, the CAA’s Chief Executive, said:
There are clear laws in place, which are intended to assist passengers in the event of a cancellation, helping 
minimise both the frustration and inconvenience caused by circumstances completely out of their control.We 
UK regulator accuses Ryanair of misleading passengers after cancelling flights
have made this crystal clear to Ryanair, who are well aware of their legal obligations, which includes how and 
when they should reroute passengers, along with the level of information it provides its passengers. The 
information Ryanair published today again fails to makes this clear.
A Ryanair spokesperson said in an emailed statement: “We are in correspondence with the CAA and have 
addressed their concerns.”
 
Load-Date: September 27, 2017
End of Document
CAA accuses Ryanair of misleading passengers as more flights axed
CAA accuses Ryanair of misleading passengers as more flights axed
 
FT.com
September 27, 2017 Wednesday 6:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 891 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, Tanya Powley and Adam Samson in London and James Politi in Rome
Body
Britain’s aviation authority has accused Ryanair of persistently misleading passengers on their rights after 
cancelling thousands of flights over the past week. 
The Civil Aviation Authority said on Wednesday it was expediting enforcement action against the low-cost carrier, 
the first step towards court action if breaches of consumer protection law persist. 
In a letter to Ryanair, the CAA said Michael O’Leary, chief executive, had wrongly claimed that the carrier was not 
obliged to find seats on alternative airlines for passengers on cancelled flights. Despite a request last week to 
correct that inaccurate statement publicly, Ryanair had so far not complied, the CAA said. 
Ryanair responded: “We are in correspondence with the CAA and have addressed their concerns.”
The action comes as the Irish carrier axed flights for a further 400,000 passengers travelling between November 
and March, less than two weeks after it cancelled up to 2,100 flights affecting about 315,000 flyers. 
The CAA said information on the group’s website following the latest cancellations appeared to correct Mr O’Leary’s 
misleading statement. Moreover, the regulator said, the carrier had failed to include information on the obligation to 
refund expenses incurred as a result of flight disruption. 
Andrew Haines, the CAA’s chief executive, said: “There are clear laws in place, which are intended to assist 
passengers in the event of a cancellation. 
CAA accuses Ryanair of misleading passengers as more flights axed
“We have made this crystal clear to Ryanair, who are well aware of their legal obligations, which includes how and 
when they should reroute passengers, along with the level of information it provides its passengers. The information 
Ryanair published today again fails to makes this clear.” 
Since the cancellations, Ryanair has faced a backlash in many countries. In Italy, which is a big hub for the low-cost 
airline, authorities launched an inquiry last week into alleged violations of consumer rights. Government ministers 
criticised its handling of the affair, with Carlo Calenda, the economic development minister, and Graziano Delrio, the 
transport minister, calling for “zero tolerance” with regard to the Irish airline.
“What happened with Ryanair is very serious because the disservice to citizens was substantial,” Mr Calenda said. 
Separately, Ryanair on Wednesday pulled out of bidding for rival Alitalia, saying it must “eliminate all management 
distractions” to repair its rostering problem. It is a big U-turn for the budget carrier, which confirmed plans last week 
to make a binding offer for Alitalia. The deadline for bids for the Italian airline is October 16. 
One person close to the situation said that it was unlikely that the government would have told Ryanair not to bid for 
Alitalia; rather, they could not have managed a bid for the Italian airline at the same time as they were handling so 
much disruption for travellers.
Mr O’Leary continues to grapple with Ryanair’s pilot shortage. Last week, the airline blamed its roster mess up on a 
regulatory change that forces airlines to count crew flying hours over a calendar year, instead of its fiscal year from 
April to March, which left the airline with too few standby pilots on its roster. At the time, Mr O’Leary insisted Ryanair 
would not have to make any further cancellations. 
But the airline on Wednesday rowed back on threats to take back a week’s holiday from pilots, which was part of its 
initial plans to solve its current crisis. 
Ryanair said the fresh flight cancellations will mean it “will not need pilots to give up one week of their well-earned 
annual leave from Nov onwards”. It also denied it had a pilot shortage, stating that in the current year under 100 
captains have left and less than 160 first officers. The airline said it has recruited and will train more than 650 pilots 
over the next eight months.
The Dublin-based carrier will fly 25 fewer aircraft out of its 400-plane fleet in mid-November to March, and then 10 
fewer from April 2018.
The changes announced on Wednesday are expected to reduce full-year traffic to 129m from 131m, representing a 
7.5 per cent rise on last year, the airline said. It reiterated that costs related to the cancellations announced last 
week would be less than €25m and estimated a similar amount for the latest changes. It also reiterated that it did 
not expect these charges to alter its profit guidance for the current year of between €1.4bn to €1.45bn. 
Ryanair hoped the reductions to its flight schedule would “eliminate all risk of further flight cancellations, because 
slower growth creates lots of spare aircraft and crews across Ryanair’s 86 bases this winter”.
Fewer than 400,000 people had been affected by the changes disclosed on Wednesday, it said. Those consumers 
had been sent an email giving them five weeks to five months to schedule changes and had been offered a full 
refund or alternative flights as well as a travel voucher, Ryanair said.
“We sincerely apologise to those customers who have been affected by last week’s flight cancellations, or these 
sensible schedule changes announced today,” said Mr O’Leary.
“While over 99 per cent of our 129m customers will not have been affected by any cancellations or disruptions, we 
deeply regret any doubt we caused existing customers last week about Ryanair’s reliability, or the risk of further 
cancellations,” he added.
Load-Date: October 5, 2017
CAA accuses Ryanair of misleading passengers as more flights axed
End of Document
Ryanair cancels more flights, halts Alitalia bid
Ryanair cancels more flights, halts Alitalia bid
 
FT.com
September 27, 2017 Wednesday 12:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 372 words
Byline: Adam Samson
Body
Ryanair will cancel more flights this winter, in a move that will hit some 400,000 flyers, and end a bid for Alitalia as it 
looks to put a booking debacle behind it.
The Dublin-based discount airline will fly 25 fewer aircraft out of its 400 plane fleet in mid-November – March, and 
then fly 10 fewer planes from April 2018. It will also pull itself out of the running to buy Alitalia, the Italian carrier.
Ryanair said the move was made as part of process to “eliminate all management distractions.” The group has 
notified Alitalia bankruptcy commissioners to say that it will not be “pursuing our interest in Alitalia or submitting any 
further offers for the airline.”
The flight changes announced on Wednesday are expected to reduce full-year traffic to 129m from 131m, 
representing a 7.5 per cent rise on last year, the airline said. It reiterated costs of under €25m related to the 
cancellations announced last week, and estimated under €25m in costs related to these new changes.
Ryanair hopes the reductions to its flight schedule will “eliminate all risk of further flight cancellations, because 
slower growth creates lots of spare aircraft and crews across Ryanair’s 86 bases this winter.”
The airline said fewer than 400,000 people have been affected by the changes disclosed on Wednesday. Those 
consumers have already been sent an email, providing them five weeks to five months to schedule changes. They 
have been offered a full refund or alternative flights as well as a travel voucher, Ryanair said.
Ryanair cancels more flights, halts Alitalia bid
“We sincerely apologise to those customers who have been affected by last week’s flight cancellations, or these 
sensible schedule changes announced today,” said chief executive Michael O’Leary.
“While over 99 per cent of our 129m customers will not have been affected by any cancellations or disruptions, we 
deeply regret any doubt we caused existing customers last week about Ryanair’s reliability, or the risk of further 
cancellations.”
Ryanair faced intense criticism last week after it said it would  cancel up to 2,100 flights over a six-week period. In 
addition to the expenses, it has  the group’s reputation as an efficient operator that gets clients where they need to 
go, on time, and at a low cost.
Image source: Getty
Load-Date: September 27, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet to help develop a battery powered plane
EasyJet to help develop a battery powered plane
 
FT.com
September 27, 2017 Wednesday 2:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 350 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick
Body
UK budget airline EasyJet has taken a step towards a future without jet fuel with plans to help develop a battery 
powered plane.
The group said on Wednesday that it had partnered with US aircraft designer Wright Electric to develop an electric 
aircraft for flights under two hours. 
If the project works, it will cut emissions, noise and fuel consumption, Dame Carolyn McCall, EasyJet chief 
executive, said. 
“For the first time in my career I can envisage a future without jet fuel and we are excited to be part of it,” she said. 
“It is now more a matter of when, not if, a short-haul electric plane will fly.”
The new, larger plane would have a range of 335 miles, the two companies said.
According to  EasyJet this means it would be able to fly from London to Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, Cologne, 
Glasgow or Edinburgh.
EasyJet said it is not committing cash to the partnership with Wright Electric. Instead it will provide advice and 
industry expertise that will allow the US company to develop a battery-propelled commercial airliner.
Wright Electric was founded in 2015 by US entrepreneur Jeffrey Engler and electric aircraft designer  Chip Yates. It 
already has a prototype for a two-seater electric plane, which Mr Yates developed previously, and is working with 
EasyJet to help develop a battery powered plane
several airlines including EasyJet to convert this into a 120-seat passenger plane. The other airline partners have 
not agreed for their names to be publicised. 
Mr Engler told the Financial Times that their plan would be achieved within a decade. 
He was unsure at this stage how much building the first plane would cost. Wright Electric has raised seed funding 
for the project but is not disclosing the amount. 
Mr Engler added that the project was “daunting from every perspective”.
EasyJet is publicising its electric plane partnership at the same time as rival low-cost airline Ryanair has been 
reeling from the fallout of being forced abruptly to cancel thousands of flights after it made pilot scheduling errors. 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has apologised to customers and offered a £40 travel voucher per flight 
cancelled. 
Load-Date: October 2, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks past ’70s flashbacks; Irn Bru fizzes; CMA
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks past ’70s flashbacks; Irn Bru fizzes; 
CMA
 
FT.com
September 26, 2017 Tuesday 7:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1072 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
When you’re trying to position yourself as a digital travel agency for the 21st century, it’s important to remember the 
tight orangey-brown swimming trunks rule: the 1970s is never a good look. Sadly, Thomas Cook has not been able 
to avoid it. Its launch of a wizzy new online feature allowing holidaymakers to select the exact location and view 
from their hotel room (think: overlooking sea, nowhere near disco) has been somewhat overshadowed by the first 
UK pilots’ strike for 40 odd years (think: Luton departure lounge, next to crying baby).
This morning, though, Thomas Cook followed textbook procedure when faced with something embarrassing from 
the 1970s: it ignored it – and focused on the present.
Its trading update said overall summer bookings were in line with our expectations, up 11 per cent year on year with 
average prices 1 per cent higher, meaning the summer 2017 programme is now 91 per cent sold – 2 per cent 
ahead of this time last year. Meanwhile, the winter 2017/18 programme is 37 per cent sold, in line with the same 
period last year. Overall group bookings are up 3 per cent, helped by a recovery in demand for holidays to Turkey 
and North Africa, with average selling prices up 2 per cent.
On the subject of its UK airline operation, the company simply reported “good seat-only sales”. In fact, another 
strike has been called for this Friday, September 29, the third called by the British Airline Pilots’ Association since it 
first took industrial action last weekend.
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks past ’70s flashbacks; Irn Bru fizzes; CMA
To be fair to Thomas Cook and the pilots, they have spent days trying to resolve their pay dispute and – unlike 
Ryanair – have rescheduled flights rather than cancelling them. They even thought to email all the affected 
passengers.
Doubtless, though, Thomas Cook would rather focus on more positive technological developments, such as its deal 
with US travel website Expedia, to enable 60,000 third-party hotels to be booked online. This makes it cheaper and 
easier for the group to offer city breaks at lots more hotels it does not own, while making its more profitable own-
brand hotel packages available to Expedia’s 95 million website visitors.
When announcing the deal this summer, Thomas Cook chief executive Peter Fankhauser said:
Joining forces with a company that has the global reach and expertise of Expedia will allow Thomas Cook to 
further simplify our systems and processes.
And, today, the group announced another partnership to extend this strategy: a partnership with LMEY Investments, 
a Swiss-based hotel property development company, to develop and grow the Thomas Cook own-brand hotel 
portfolio.
Under the arrangement, Thomas Cook has acquired from LMEY a 42 per cent stake in Aldiana, a premium club and 
activity-focused tour operator based in Germany. Aldiana currently operates eight club resorts located in Spain, 
Greece, Cyprus, Tunisia and Austria, with plans to open another four resorts over the next two years. These will sit 
alongside Thomas Cook’s six existing proprietary hotel brands, expanding its portfolio.
In addition, Thomas Cook and LMEY will create a joint hotel investment platform, contributing a minimum of five 
owned and directly-managed hotel properties between them. These assets, with a combined value of around 
£150m, will be used to develop the platform into a fund focused on acquiring a pipeline of further hotel and resort 
assets.
Mr Fankhauser said:
The development of a strong portfolio of own-brand hotels is absolutely key to our success, allowing us to 
provide customers with a consistent and high quality holiday, whatever their needs. Our new strategic 
partnership with LMEY, with its proven track record of identifying and redeveloping highly successful properties 
in sun and beach locations, gives us the perfect launch pad to accelerate this critical part of our strategy. This 
is yet another example of the way that we are transforming our business through partnerships.
Another orangey-brown 1970s throwback to a land that taste forgot – AG Barr’s girder-based Scottish beverage, Irn 
Bru – has also been focusing on a bright future. This morning, the company reported “strong brand performance 
across the portfolio” – in particular the continuing success of last year’s new product launches, which included the 
terrifying IRN-BRU XTRA.
As a result, in the six months to July 29, total revenue grew by 9 per cent to £137m, and pre-tax profit before 
exceptionals increased 3 per cent to £17.5m. Barr’s operating margins dipped to 13.2 per cent, from 13.9 per cent, 
but the group moved from net debt of £6.6m last year to net cash of £7.9m during the period.
And it seems more are acquiring the taste: overall market share rose, with sales performance in England and Wales 
deemed “particularly pleasing”.
Chief executive Roger White said:
The strong sales momentum of the second half of last year has continued and has combined with significant 
progress from our innovation to deliver strong sales growth and market share gains in the period… the soft 
drinks market has been impacted negatively in the short term by the mixed weather since late July, assuming 
market conditions across the balance of the year are reasonable, the company remains on course to meet the 
Board’s expectations for the full year.
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks past ’70s flashbacks; Irn Bru fizzes; CMA
And, finally, the UK’s competition watchdog suspects distasteful old-fashioned behaviour at a price comparison 
website, but is not referring to its TV adverts: the regulator has this morning announced an investigation into one 
unnamed site that it believes may have bumped up home insurance costs.
In its final report into the price comparison services, the Competition and Markets Authority said:
We have found that improvements are needed to help people get even better deals. We have set out ground 
rules for how sites should behave, as well as being clear on how regulators can ensure people have a better 
experience online. We are also taking enforcement action where we suspect the law may have been broken.
The watchdog added:
Where sites are not working in people’s best interests, the CMA is taking action. As part of this, it is opening a 
competition law investigation into how one site has set up its contracts with insurers, because it suspects this 
may result in higher home insurance prices.
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for 
the full newsletter here.
For the latest Lombard column commentary,  click here.
Load-Date: September 26, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks to a bright future
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks to a bright future
 
FT.com
September 26, 2017 Tuesday 7:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1531 words
Byline: Siona Jenkins
Body
Thomas Cook looks to a bright future. FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early 
Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for the full newsletter here.
When you’re trying to position yourself as a digital travel agency for the 21st century, it’s important to remember the 
tight orangey-brown swimming trunks rule: the 1970s is never a good look. Sadly, Thomas Cook has not been able 
to avoid it. Its launch of a wizzy new online feature allowing holidaymakers to select the exact location and view 
from their hotel room (think: overlooking sea, nowhere near disco) has been somewhat overshadowed by the first 
UK pilots’ strike for 40 odd years (think: Luton departure lounge, next to crying baby).
This morning, though, Thomas Cook followed textbook procedure when faced with something embarrassing from 
the 1970s: it ignored it – and focused on the present. Its trading updates said overall summer bookings were in line 
with our expectations, up 11 per cent year on year with average prices up 1 per cent, meaning the summer 2017 
programme is now 91 per cent sold – 2 per cent ahead of this time last year. Meanwhile, the winter 2017/18 
programme is 37 per cent sold, in line with the same period last year. Overall group bookings are up 3 per cent, 
helped by a recovery in demand for holidays to Turkey and North Africa, with average selling prices up 2 per cent.
On the subject of its UK airline operation, the company simply reported “good seat-only sales”. In fact, another 
strike has been called for this Friday, September 29), the third called by the British Airline Pilots’ Association since it 
first took industrial action last weekend.To be fair to Thomas Cook and its pilots, they have spent days trying to 
resolve the pay dispute and – unlike Ryanair – have rescheduled flights rather than cancelling them. They even 
thought to email all the affected passengers.
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks to a bright future
Doubtless, Thomas Cook would rather focus on more positive technological developments, such as its deal with US 
travel website Expedia, to enable 60,000 third-party hotels to be booked online. This makes it cheaper and easier 
for the group to offer city breaks at lots more hotels it does not own, while making its more profitable own-brand 
hotel packages available to Expedia’s 95m website visitors. When announcing the deal this summer,Thomas Cook 
chief executive Peter Fankhauser said: “Joining forces with a company that has the global reach and expertise of 
Expedia will allow Thomas Cook to further simplify our systems and processes.”
And, today, it announced another partnership to extend this strategy: a partnership with  LMEY Investments, a 
Swiss-based hotel property development company, to develop and grow the Thomas Cook own-brand hotel 
portfolio.
Under the arrangement, Thomas Cook has acquired from LMEY a 42 per cent stake in Aldiana, a premium club and 
activity-focused tour operator and hotel management company based in Germany. Aldiana currently operates eight 
club resorts located in Spain, Greece, Cyprus, Tunisia and Austria, with plans to open another four resorts over the 
next two years.
These will sit alongside Thomas Cook’s six existing proprietary hotel brands, expanding its portfolio. In addition, 
Thomas Cook and LMEY will create a joint hotel investment platform, contributing a minimum of five owned and 
directly-managed hotel properties between them. These assets, with a combined value of around £150m, will be 
used to develop the platform into a fund focused on acquiring a pipeline of further hotel and resort assets.
Mr Fankhauser said:
“The development of a strong portfolio of own-brand hotels is absolutely key to our success, allowing us to 
provide customers with a consistent and high quality holiday, whatever their needs. Our new strategic 
partnership with LMEY, with its proven track record of identifying and redeveloping highly successful properties 
in sun and beach locations, gives us the perfect launch pad to accelerate this critical part of our strategy. This 
is yet another example of the way that we are transforming our business through partnerships.”
Another orangey-brown 1970s throwback to a land that taste forgot – AG Barr’s girder-based Scottish beverage, Irn 
Bru – has also been focusing on a bright future. This morning, the company reported “  strong brand performance 
across the portfolio” – in particular the continuing success of last year’s new product launches, which included the 
terrifying IRN-BRU XTRA.
As a result, in the six months to July 29, total revenue grew by 9 per cent to £137m, and pre-tax profit before 
exceptionals increased 3 per cent to £17.5m. Barr’s operating margins dipped to 13.2 per cent, from 13.9 per cent, 
but the group moved from net debt of £6.6m last year to net cash of £7.9m during the period.
And it seems more are acquiring the taste: overall market share rose with sales performance in England and Wales 
“particularly pleasing”.
Chief executive Roger White said:
“The strong sales momentum of the second half of last year has continued and has combined with significant 
progress from our innovation to deliver strong sales growth and market share gains in the period… Although 
the soft drinks market has been impacted negatively in the short term by the mixed weather since late July, 
assuming market conditions across the balance of the year are reasonable, the Company remains on course to 
meet the Board’s expectations for the full year.”
And, finally, the UK’s competition watchdog suspects distasteful behaviour at a price comparison website, and is 
not referring to its TV adverts: the regulator has this morning announced an  investigation into one unnamed site 
that it believes may have bumped up home insurance costs.
In its final report into the price comparison services, the Competition and Markets Authority CEO Andrea Coscelli 
said: “We have found that improvements are needed to help people get even better deals. We have set out ground 
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks to a bright future
rules for how sites should behave, as well as being clear on how regulators can ensure people have a better 
experience online. We are also taking enforcement action where we suspect the law may have been broken.
The watchdog added:
“Where sites are not working in people’s best interests, the CMA is taking action. As part of this, it is opening a 
competition law investigation into how one site has set up its contracts with insurers, because it suspects this 
may result in higher home insurance prices.”
Beyond the Square Mile
Asia Pacific markets, followed their counterparts in New York, where equities took a hit on Monday. South Korea’s 
Kospi saw the biggest fall, down 0.4 per cent in afternoon trading, while Japan’s Topix and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng 
were flat. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 dipped 0.1 per cent.
North Korea’s foreign minister rattled markets with his comments on Monday accusing Donald Trump of declaring 
war on the country. Safe havens jumped on the news and held in Asia trading.
Gold was up 0.2 per cent at $1,312.2 an ounce, following a 1.2 per cent surge on Monday as the metal climbed 
back up through the $1,300 threshold to hit $1,309.
The yen strengthened to ¥111.54 against the dollar
The dollar index, which measures the currency against a basket of peers, was down 0.1 per cent.
The euro, which fell through the $1.19 threshold against the dollar on Monday after the Germany election result on 
Sunday, was up 0.1 per cent at $1.1855.
Oil prices have hit their highest level since on the back of fast-growing demand and a threat to Iraqi Kurdistan’s 
crude exports as the autonomous region held a controversial referendum on independence. Brent crude was up 0.7 
per cent at $59.42 a barrel, extending gains after hitting its highest point in over two years on Monday, when it 
settled at $59.02 a barrel, the highest close since  July 2015.
West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, was up 0.3 per cent at $52.35 a barrel, after rising 3.1 per cent on 
Monday to its highest level since April.
Intraday
Corporate earnings and updates for Tuesday include Nestle, AA, Close Brothers Group, Panmure Gordon and 
Carnival.
The economic calendar is as follows (all times London).
07.00: Germany import price index
08.30: Sweden producer price index
09.30: UK mortgage approvals
09.30: Hong Kong imports, exports and trade
The markets at 07:48
Asian markets
Nikkei 225 down -67.39 (-0.33%) at 20,330
Topix down -0.08 (0.00%) at 1,673
Hang Seng down -54.98 (-0.20%) at 27,445
US markets
Opening Quote: Thomas Cook looks to a bright future
S&P 500 down -5.56 (-0.22%) at 2,497
DJIA down -53.50 (-0.24%) at 22,296
Nasdaq down -56.33 (-0.88%) at 6,371
European markets
Eurofirst 300 up +3.46 (+0.23%) at 1,509
FTSE100 down -9.35 (-0.13%) at 7,301
CAC 40 down -14.16 (-0.27%) at 5,267
Dax up +2.46 (+0.02%) at 12,595
Currencies
€/$ 1.18 (1.18)
$/¥ 111.59 (111.72)
£/$ 1.35 (1.35)
€/£ 0.8786 (0.8795)
Commodities ($)
Brent Crude (ICE) up +0.05 at 59.07
Light Crude (Nymex) down -0.14 at 52.08
100 Oz Gold (Comex) unchanged 0.00 at 1,307
Copper (Comex) up +0.03 at 2.94
10-year government bond yields (%)
US 2.22%
Germany 0.40%
CDS (closing levels)
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe at 19.9bp
Markit iTraxx Europe -0.27bps at 58.78bp
Markit iTraxx Xover +1.05bps at 259.54bp
Markit CDX IG -0.5bps at 59.5bp
Sources: FT, Bloomberg, Markit
Load-Date: September 26, 2017
End of Document
NMC Health FTSE 100’s biggest gainer on expansion talk
NMC Health FTSE 100’s biggest gainer on expansion talk
 
FT.com
September 26, 2017 Tuesday 5:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 447 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
NMC Health was the FTSE 100’s biggest gainer on Tuesday after HSBC forecast the Middle East hospital operator 
would step up its overseas expansion. 
NMC’s balance sheet can support about $1.3bn of acquisitions by the end of 2018 without raising more cash, 
HSBC forecast. Picking out Egypt, Bahrain and Qatar as potential territories, its team expected NMC to focus on 
“countries where healthcare spend is taking off but infrastructure is still behind the country’s need, similar to where 
the UAE was a decade ago”. 
HSBC put a £32 target on NMC, which climbed 2.8 per cent to £27.18.
The wider market remained calm, leaving the FTSE 100 0.2 per cent lower, off just 15.55 points at 7,285.74.
British American Tobacco gained 1.4 per cent to £46.50 after US broker Cowan upgraded to “outperform” with a 
£53.50 target. Cowen was also positive on Imperial Brands, which took on 1.5 per cent to £32.75. 
Trading at less than 12 times earnings, Imperial is at a deep discount to global peers in spite of its sector-leading 
margins and scope for further portfolio streamlining, Cowen said.
Separately, retail sales data showed both BAT and Imperial gaining market share in the UK over August.
Carnival, the world’s biggest cruise-ship operator, rose 2.7 per cent to £48.65 on better than expected quarterly 
earnings and unchanged guidance for the full year. 
NMC Health FTSE 100’s biggest gainer on expansion talk
EasyJet gained 1.6 per cent to £11.99 a day before an investor meeting, where the airline is expected to give some 
colour to its bid for Air Berlin slots and the effects on recent trading from Ryanair’s flight cancellations.
Advertising agency WPP was 1.7 per cent lower at £13.99 on a downgrade to “equal weight” from Morgan Stanley. 
It forecast WPP to miss sales growth targets this year and deliver just 0.5 per cent growth in 2018, citing low gross 
domestic product growth and marketing budget cuts among the fast-moving consumer-goods makers. Morgan 
Stanley also cited “price indiscipline” among competing agencies as well as “client distrust” of the industry, 
particularly on media-buying margins.
Vedanta Resources rose 4 per cent to 835p after Canaccord Genuity upgraded it to “speculative buy” from “hold”. 
Rolling commodity price forecasts into 2018 gave Canaccord a 940p target for Vedanta, up from 400p previously, 
though the broker cautioned that its buy advice was “on a trading basis” due to the stock’s volatility and the 
likelihood of no debt reduction before 2019.
Card Factory dropped 18.3 per cent to 290p after switching its focus from paying special dividends to keeping debt 
under control. The retailer also cut year-end margin guidance to reflect rising costs and a growing reliance on lower 
margin non-card products.
Load-Date: September 27, 2017
End of Document
Norwegian Air climbs after UK unit gains approval for US flights
Norwegian Air climbs after UK unit gains approval for US flights
 
FT.com
September 25, 2017 Monday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 266 words
Byline: John Murray Brown
Body
Shares in Norwegian Air rose 4 per cent in Oslo as investors digested Friday’s announcement that the US 
Department of Transportation had given the go-ahead for the low cost airline’s UK subsidiary to fly to US cities.
Shares, which closed on Friday at NKr225, rose as high as NKr234 before falling back.
The new permit allows Europe’s third largest low cost carrier after Ryanair and EasyJet to expand its operations at 
London’s Gatwick airport.
Until now, Norwegian’s UK-US services have been carried out by its Norway-based mother carrier and its Irish unit.
Brokers say the announcement means Norwegian is also fully hedged against any regulatory changes that might 
flow from the UK’s decision to leave the European Union, when it will no longer be party to the EU-US Open Skies 
agreement.
The announcement comes after Norwegian has poached dozens of pilots from Ryanair, which last week incurred 
the wrath of passengers by cancelling several thousand flights to sort out a snarl up over pilots holidays.
“This is great news for Norwegian and passengers on both sides of the Atlantic, enabling us to offer even more 
routes, greater choice and lower fares” the airline’s chief executive Bjorn Kjos said last week after the US DoT said 
it would grant a license to Norwegian’s UK subsidiary, rejecting objections put forward by various pilots groups.
Norwegian Air climbs after UK unit gains approval for US flights
“Our Norwegian UK subsidiary has already opened the door to a range of new markets. So securing access to the 
US is the final piece of the jigsaw, allowing us to operate a seamless operation with affordable fares to a range of 
global destinations,” he said
Load-Date: September 25, 2017
End of Document
Flights of surrealist fancy
Flights of surrealist fancy
 
FT.com
September 24, 2017 Sunday 11:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 48 words
Body
Sir, It’s pure surrealism being played out at Ryanair. (“Ryanair faces €25m bill from cancelled flights”, September 
19) With the recent unearthing — literally — of Salvador Dalí’s DNA, a check for a match with Michael O’Leary 
might prove interesting.
Brian Robinson
Daingean, Republic of Ireland
Load-Date: September 25, 2017
End of Document
Funds that exclude LGBT backers raise $70m*
Funds that exclude LGBT backers raise $70m*
 
FT.com
September 23, 2017 Saturday 4:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 580 words
Byline: Jennifer Thompson and Madison Marriage
Body
Two passive funds that exclude companies supportive of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community 
have raised $70m since their launch in March.* 
Inspire Investing said in February it hoped the “biblically responsible” products aimed at conservative evangelical 
Christians would garner hundreds of millions of dollars in the months following their launch. By September 21 they 
had combined assets of just under $70m. 
“While these ETFs were set up to appeal to investors with specific values, there’s likely to be a significantly larger 
market for investment strategies and products based on LGBT inclusion, rather than exclusion,” said Howard 
Sherman, head of corporate governance business development at MSCI, the index provider. 
 Inspire Investing also launched a biblically responsible corporate bond fund two months ago, which has assets of 
$20m. 
“Our asset gathering is going according to plan and we believe, God willing, that our ETFs will attract assets in the 
hundreds of millions,” Robert Netzly, chief executive of the US investment group, said, adding he expected the 
ETFs to break $100m by the end of the year. 
“Demand for biblically responsible ETFs is proving to be robust and we are running to keep up. These AUM levels 
put us among the most successful ETF launches of the year.”
Funds that exclude LGBT backers raise $70m*
The ETFs have invested in companies including Panera Bread, the US bakery and sandwich chain, Germany’s 
Commerzbank and Ryanair, the Irish airline.
US investors already have access to a “Catholic Values” ETF, launched in 2016. It excludes S&P 500 members that 
are considered incompatible with church teaching by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, such as 
defence stocks. Inspire Investing’s ETFs went further, explicitly screening out stocks of companies that support 
LGBT rights, alongside businesses involved in abortion, gambling, alcohol, pornography and terrorism. 
The booming  global ETF market, which has $4.4tn in assets, has spawned numerous thematic products in which 
stocks are selected according to niche topics such as obesity or cyber security. Many are modest in size. 
“The [Inspire] assets under management are still small for a new ETF, but not unreasonable,” said David 
Stevenson, editor of ETF Stream, the news service, and an FT columnist. He said many new and specialised ETFs 
only pull in around $20m to $30m. “Crucially, this is a big potential market, and hitting a few hundred million within 
six months doesn’t seem unreasonable.”
The corporate world has increasingly embraced the LGBT cause. Companies such as Apple and Goldman Sachs 
are among the biggest supporters of more inclusive policies and LGBT rights. 
There is evidence that companies that promote diversity perform better over time. A basket of 270 companies that 
embrace pro-LGBT policies outperformed the MSCI All Country World index by 3 per cent a year, according to 
research conducted by Credit Suisse, the bank, last year. 
The basket was constructed by finding companies that either have openly LGBT leaders and senior management, 
that are voted as leading LGBT employers in surveys by rights groups such as Stonewall, or those that have many 
employees in local LGBT business networks.
More than half of the 270 companies were in the technology, financial and consumer sectors.
* The headline and text of this article have been revised since original publication to reflect that the funds had not 
actually set formal fundraising targets for the period up to September 2017.
Load-Date: October 18, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair : Cryin’ Air
Ryanair: Cryin’ Air
 
FT.com
September 22, 2017 Friday 12:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 361 words
Body
In the movie Airplane! an inflatable pilot sat in as substitute in an emergency. No such luck, or laughs, followed 
Ryanair’s pilot scheduling errors that led to forced flight cancellations this week. The punchline may well be higher 
staff costs. Yet once the fallout from this controversy settles, Ryanair will remain Europe’s most efficient airline.
Low costs do not come simply by paying people less. Some will rightly ask whether Ryanair employs enough crew. 
Ryanair keeps staffing tight at 5.2 flight teams (captain plus first officer) per plane. Compare that to easyJet at 5.6. 
Pilots’ weekly flying hours are capped for safety reasons, and Ryanair has admitted it had an insufficient buffer to 
account for inclement weather and other surprises. 
What may have brought a knowing chuckle from rivals was the decision to cancel flights weeks in advance. EU 
rules require compensation be paid to flyers only if their flights are cancelled within two weeks of departure. Ryanair 
has decided to take the hit to its costs — offering extra money to pilots and customers — and to its reputation in 
one go, rather than risk delays (and payouts) in the future. Reasonably, Ryanair is betting customers choose it on 
the basis of price alone. Elite first and business class custom tend to go with flag carriers, no matter what. 
Costs will probably climb a bit as Ryanair hires more crew. Analysts at Bernstein expect a 10 per cent jump in 
operating costs. But even double that increment would not affect Ryanair’s status as the stingiest of the low-cost 
carriers. Excluding fuel, the Irish airline spends a measly 2 euro cents per available seat per kilometre; European 
airlines dole out on average two and half times that. Consensus earnings will drop about 3 per cent to begin with.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary has tried to make light of this “boo-boo”. But it means Ryanair’s belt-tightening will 
stop for now. An earnings stall looks likely into the end of the year. Don’t board this one yet.
Ryanair : Cryin’ Air
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Has Ryanair’s low-costs, low-fares model reached its 
limit? Please tell us what you think in the comments section below. 
Load-Date: September 22, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair : Turbulent times for low-cost pioneer
Ryanair: Turbulent times for low-cost pioneer
 
FT.com
September 22, 2017 Friday 5:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1568 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London and Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Stephen Smith had always avoided using Ryanair because of customer horror stories that have long dogged the 
Irish budget airline. Last year, however, the 33-year-old from Stockport was persuaded, after hearing good things 
from friends and family, to bite the bullet and use it.
His first experience was great. But after the low-cost airline’s abrupt cancellation of more than 2,000 flights left Mr 
Smith and his wife stranded in Alicante last weekend — one of 315,000 passengers to have their flights taken from 
under them — he has vowed to never fly with them again.
“This is [only] the second time [we’ve] used them and it will be the last,” says Mr Smith, who works for a UK energy 
company. “They just said we cancelled your flights . . . that’s it. Good luck. I can’t fathom it. They shouldn’t be able 
to get away with it.”
The scrapping of 50 flights per day for a six-week period has dealt a severe blow to Ryanair, which has built its 
reputation over the past two decades as an efficient, safe and reliable operator, an airline that gets you to where 
you need to go on time.
The flight cancellations followed a regulatory change that forces airlines to count crew flying hours over a calendar 
year, instead of its fiscal year from April to March, which left the airline with too few standby pilots on its roster. 
However it has left many analysts puzzled. “This was easily anticipated,” says Andrew Lobbenberg, aviation analyst 
at HSBC. “So there is a genuine issue around pilot staffing here.”
Ryanair : Turbulent times for low-cost pioneer
Ryanair could face a longer-term problem with its 4,200 pilots after Michael O’Leary, the airline’s combative chief 
executive, stirred up fresh anger by threatening to take back a week’s holiday from them in October. The threat 
came as employee councils representing pilots in 14 bases rejected the offer of a bonus to cancel leave and stay 
an additional year at the airline.
The impact on its reputation was clear when the disaster forced a contrite Mr O’Leary to apologise and admit on 
Monday that it had “f***ed up”.
Europe’s largest budget carrier, Ryanair, alongside its low-cost rivals such as the UK’s easyJet and Southwest in 
the US, has upended the airline industry over the past 30 years with an aggressive focus on cheap fares. In 
Europe, this has seen the budget airlines tear chunks out of the short-haul market, with flag carriers like British 
Airways, Lufthansa and Air France-KLM ceding as much as 40 per cent of the market to them.
“It was the given wisdom that short haul didn’t usually make money. It was principally used by airlines to feed their 
long-haul flights. Ryanair turned that on its head,” says John Strickland, a London-based aviation consultant.
Even as the airline industry gets ever more competitive, Ryanair remains at the top of the pack with increasing 
passenger numbers and profit. It has enjoyed uninterrupted growth since 1991, when it flew just 650,000 
passengers on six aircraft. This year it expects to fly more than 130m people using about 400 planes and in May 
forecast a post-tax profit of between €1.4bn and €1.45bn. 
Its laser-sharp focus on cost has been the envy of rival airline bosses. “There isn’t an airline in the world who 
doesn’t want low cost. It is by being low cost that you can make better savings. Ryanair showed a lot of the older 
carriers how you might go about achieving that,” says Andrew Charlton, an aviation analyst.
This has led to a fundamental change in the way airlines charge for flights, with full-service carriers aping many of 
the tactics successfully introduced by low-cost carriers. Gone are the days when the cost of a plane ticket included 
most things. You checked your bags, you were allocated a seat, and you were given food and drink.
$28bn
Earned in ancillary revenues by the top 10 airlines in 2016, up from $2.1bn in 2007 
€1.4bn-€1.5bn
Ryanair forecast for its 2018 post-tax profit
130m
Passengers are scheduled to travel with Ryanair this year 
2000
Flights over the next six weeks have been cancelled by the Irish budget airline 
. . .
These days, the majority of airlines charge for services, ranging from early boarding, advanced seat assignment to 
lounge access and extra weight allowance, as they move to unbundle fees from their base fares.
While the majority of the world’s airlines are eyeing up further ways to lower their costs as well as generate further 
ancillary revenues, Ryanair’s cancellation mess has shown that penny pinching can go too far and negatively 
impact on operations.
Ryanair : Turbulent times for low-cost pioneer
Over the past decade, revenues from ancillary fees have seen huge growth. The top 10 airlines, ranked by total 
ancillary revenue, generated $2.1bn in 2007. In 2016, this had jumped to more than $28bn, according to research 
by IdeaWorksCompany.
But while the measures have meant cheaper seat-only fares, rising fees and declining customer service have 
become a growing source of passenger complaints. This year premium carrier BA was accused of trying to 
“Ryanair-ise” when it started charging for food and drink on short-haul economy flights across Europe.
In the US, consumer anger over rising fees has been growing. In May, lawmakers vented frustrations over 
everything from airline baggage fees to a shortage of space in overhead luggage bins, and threatened legislation to 
protect air passenger consumer rights, following the violent removal of a passenger from a United Continental flight 
the previous month.
The incident at United provoked public anger at many aspects of modern air travel, from involuntary removal from 
flights to accommodate staff to the proliferation of fees for changing flights, checking bags and even carry-on 
luggage. This week, the  US Government Accountability Office highlighted how revenue from checked baggage and 
change and cancellation fees — the two charges that US airlines have to report to the Department of Transportation 
— rose from $6.3bn in 2010 to $7.1bn 
last year.
The pressure on revenues has meant that even airlines that have long rejected the idea of charging for these 
services are realising the opportunity. Both Etihad Airways and Emirates Airlines, which have generally not charged 
for extras, have introduced ancillary fees over the past year as they look to boost their falling profits during a tough 
period for the Gulf airlines.
Unsurprisingly, the low-cost airlines have been the best at generating these ancillary revenues. US budget carrier 
Spirit leads the way, with ancillary fees making up as much as  46 per cent of its total revenue. In Europe, these 
charges represent 39.4 per cent of Wizz Air’s revenues, followed by Ryanair at 26.8 per cent.
After facing a grilling by Ryanair shareholders at its AGM on Thursday, Mr O’Leary suggested there might be a 
lesson to be learnt on pilot pay.
“Maybe we’ve gotten pilot pay a little bit on the low side,” he admitted “If you look at our cost schedule, our crew 
costs at the moment are about €5 per passenger. EasyJet would be about €9 per passenger . . . So maybe we 
have pushed it a little bit far in terms of pilot pay and pilot productivity.”
Analysts say Ryanair’s lean structure means it has little room for manoeuvre should it be hit with a problem, as in 
the case with its shortage of standby pilots. “Ryanair runs an extraordinarily tight ship. When something like this 
happens they haven’t got much of a margin for error,” says Mr Charlton.
The airline confirmed on Thursday that it would increase pilot pay — which for a captain, Mr O’Leary said, is 
between £150,000 and £180,000 per year — but only in four centres Dublin, London Stansted, Berlin and Frankfurt. 
For a Dublin-based captain that would mean an increase in their take-home pay of €22,000 including a one-off 
€12,000 bonus. The pay moves are partly a response to recent pilot defections to Norwegian Air. The airline also 
faces a bill of as much as €25m to compensate passengers for cancelled flights. 
In spite of widespread passenger fury over Ryanair’s flight cancellations, branding and aviation experts note that 
the reputation hit is likely to be shortlived in an industry that regularly gets criticised for bad customer service.
At the end of May, BA was hit by a power outage that sparked three days of travel chaosand left more than 75,000 
passengers stranded worldwide. In July, Willie Walsh, chief executive officer at IAG, said the disruption had so far 
cost it £73m. However, the incident had little impact on BA’s first-half profit, which rose from €631m a year ago to 
€741m before exceptional items.
Ryanair : Turbulent times for low-cost pioneer
“Consumers have such low expectations for airline experiences that airline brands can survive mess-ups that would 
put other brands out of business . . . and for many the only issue they care about with the exception of safety is low 
fares,” says Allen Adamson, founder of BrandSimple, a consultancy. “So an airline can cancel flights, lose bags, 
spill coffee on customers and so long as they have the cheapest fare between two destinations most passengers 
will buy the seat.”
Mr O’Leary appears to have learnt that lesson, saying on Thursday that “usually the PR crises generate lots of 
publicity and sales”. At the end of the airline’s AGM, one shareholder said he had a friend who wanted a signed 
photograph of the Ryanair boss. Mr O’Leary responded by saying that he would charge €2.50 for a black-and-white 
snap or €5 for a colour picture — perhaps spawning another source of ancillary income for the company. 
Additional reporting Peggy Hollinger in London 
Load-Date: October 5, 2017
End of Document
‘Dante sends Brexit to hell,’ protesters warn May in Florence
‘Dante sends Brexit to hell,’ protesters warn May in Florence
 
FT.com
September 22, 2017 Friday 4:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 612 words
Byline: James Politi in Florence
Body
PJ Houston, a Scottish language trainer living in Verona, drove 230km on Friday just to express his displeasure at 
Theresa May in front of the façade of Santa Maria Novella church. Mr Houston held a sign that said “Dante sends 
Brexit to hell”, and warned: “she’s stepping into the fire by coming here”.
After the prime minister’s appearance, Mr Houston was no more charitable.
“She added nothing whatsoever: platitudes but no process, no application. All the people here were hoping to hear 
something realistic, that would actually give them an answer,” he said.
Mrs May slipped in and out of Florence, barely interacting with the local population except for the mayor and a few 
other high-ranking officials; no events were planned outside the former Carabinieri barracks on the church grounds 
where she chose to deliver her speech. But that did not deter a group of about 80 protesters from descending on 
Santa Maria Novella square, a largely pedestrianised zone in the heart of the city. Their main problem with Britain’s 
departure from the EU was the fate of thousands of citizens on either side of the Channel who are being “left in the 
lurch”, as one protester put it. 
“The Brexit vote is water under the bridge, it’s not about turning back, but we have been told nothing about what will 
happen, it’s a mess,” said Caroline Slater, a 69-year-old retired lawyer living in nearby Lucca. “People have built 
lives, families, jobs, on both sides, we are totally intertwined,” she said, holding up her sign, which compared Mrs 
May’s empathy to that of Ryanair, the low-cost airline.
‘Dante sends Brexit to hell,’ protesters warn May in Florence
Most of the protest unfolded before the speech, under bright sunshine. Roger Casale, 57, a former Labour party MP 
and founder of Brussels-based civil rights group New Europeans, said: “Theresa May wants to get off on the cheap, 
but I hope we get something that breaks the deadlock in the negotiations.”
At times, the protesters broke out into anti-Brexit chants as they marched around the square — “Give us a vote” 
and “Keep Prosecco cheap at Asda” — they shouted. The locals watched with curiosity, seemingly urging the UK 
prime minister to reconsider the UK’s departure from the UK. “Theresa, Theresa, please, ti prego,” shouted one 
sweaty Florentine runner as he crossed the piazza. 
At the Fiddlers’ Roof Irish pub in the square, one local said he disagreed with Brexit. “It doesn’t make any sense,” 
he said. A few young Italian members of the European Federalist Movement were there to show their “solidarity” 
with their British friends. “Any attempt to split us will only bring damage for European citizens,” said Daniele Carboni 
Siciliotti, 20, who studies political science in Florence.
During the speech, the protesters huddled around a small screen in a corner of the piazza to hear Mrs May’s words. 
Afterwards, Italian officialshad guardedly positive reactions to the speech, but Gareth Horsfall, one of the organisers 
of the protest, was unhappy with the result. Mr Horsfall, a financial planner from Huddersfield who is married to an 
Italian and lives in Rome, said: “It’s all hot air, all same old words on citizens rights: she said them before, she said 
them again, we’re still quite a way off.”
Johannes Luckner, a 25-year-old German researcher in EU law at the nearby European University Institute, was 
also sceptical. “There were some signs of peace I suppose: she was trying to gain some ground, but I don’t have 
too much faith that it did a great deal,” he said. His poster featured a quote uttered in 1435 by Cosimo de’ Medici, a 
member of one of the most powerful Renaissance families in Florence: “Tell her she’ll have a rough time hatching 
her eggs outside the nest,” he said.
Load-Date: September 24, 2017
End of Document
FT Money Show: Investing in China, Ryanair and solar panels
FT Money Show: Investing in China, Ryanair and solar panels
 
FT.com
September 22, 2017 Friday 10:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 179 words
Byline: Lucy Warwick-Ching
Body
In this week’s FT Money Show podcast, presenter Claer Barrett talks to FT Emerging Markets editor James Kynge 
about whether investors should buy into the story of China’s growing consumer economy. He says Chinese equity 
funds have been the best performing asset class for UK investors in the year-to-date but warns that there are 
worries about the health of the Chinese economy. 
Next up, FT Money Mentor Lindsay Cook tells listeners why the solar panels she installed on her roof have proved 
a profitable ray of sunshine for her. She reveals how she has received thousands of pounds from selling her energy 
back to the National Grid.
Finally, Helen Dewdney, author of the blog thecomplainingcow.co.uk, talks about the latest airline debacle —
Ryanair cancelling flights. She tells listeners their rights concerning rebooking and urges people to stand up for their 
rights. 
The FT Money Show podcast is released at 6am every Thursday, in time for your morning commute. To subscribe 
and download from the iTunes store or other podcast apps, search for “FT Money Show”.
 Listen here
Load-Date: September 27, 2017
FT Money Show: Investing in China, Ryanair and solar panels
End of Document
Ryanair resorts to the Fawlty Towers school of man management
Ryanair resorts to the Fawlty Towers school of man management
 
FT.com
September 21, 2017 Thursday 5:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 531 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Slipping staff a few quid to work longer hours is seldom a recipe for success. TV’s best known Torquay hotelier, 
Basil Fawlty, found this to his cost. A failed attempt to bribe his chef to  make a Waldorf Salad for a delayed 
American resulted in a black eye, a £20 loss and an exodus of guests. 
But Ryanair’s equally polite and customer-focused champion of low-cost tourism, Michael O’Leary, reckons the 
tactic could pay off. An offer of extra cash to his airline’s pilots will result in no more delayed flights, limit losses to 
£22m, and help passengers on their way. Or so he claimed on Thursday. 
However, like Mr Fawlty with a handful of apples, celery, walnuts and grapes, he may have a bit too much 
confidence in his abilities (at one point, he also claimed to have “apologised personally” to the 315,000 people 
whose flights he cancelled this week — quite an undertaking in just five days).
After a pilot availability crisis emerged at the weekend — caused by a “boo-boo” in planning annual leave — 
Ryanair offered to pay a £12,000 bonus to any pilots willing to waive days off and stay with the airline for a year. 
And Mr O’Leary told shareholders on Thursday that pilots had since agreed to work an extra 2,500 days. But, with 
reports suggesting the bonus was conditional on working 10 more days each, it would appear only 250 of the 
airline’s 4,200 pilots signed up. 
That makes it a cheaper solution: £3m to save 2,500 flying days, compared with £22m to cover compensation for 
the 2,100 flights cancelled already. Not a complete solution, though. Because Mr O’Leary also admitted Ryanair 
might have to force some pilots to defer their scheduled leave, to ensure there are no more cancellations. And this 
Ryanair resorts to the Fawlty Towers school of man management
is an offer they cannot refuse. “We don’t need their agreement,” he noted, in a tone redolent of Fawlty Towers’ 
finest hastily  revising the dinner menu.
That is just as well, as he would be unlikely to get it. Pilots at several Ryanair bases have already rejected the cash 
offer and demanded new contracts under local employment law. Some 140 have simply left to join Norwegian Air in 
recent months. 
In the low-cost airline industry, such upheaval is nothing new — Ryanair has more than 600 pilots joining in the next 
six months. Still, the turnover seems to bother Mr O’Leary. Why else would a low-cost airline up its cash offer to 
€22,000 for pilots at key bases? 
Ironically, it is to protect the low-cost business model. Analysts note that if pilots currently classified as freelancers 
under Irish law can claim to be regular employees in another country, the labour cost to Ryanair rises 20 per cent. 
That route may now be open to them, following an EU court ruling last week, if they don’t accept the airline’s latest 
offer.
Add this risk of higher costs to downward pricing pressure and a 10 per cent valuation discount for Brexit, and 
Kepler estimates a share price of €14.50 — 12 per cent lower than at present. It only makes Mr O’Leary look more 
like Mr Fawlty: flying by the seat of his pants to serve an unappetising concoction. 
---------------
Today’s other Lombard notes: 
 How shy and retiring Dorothy took Drax-tic actionCMA: hostility to hospitality 
---------------
Load-Date: September 22, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair pilots face holiday threat
Ryanair pilots face holiday threat
 
FT.com
September 21, 2017 Thursday 12:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 842 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Hundreds of Ryanair pilots may be forced to give up their own holiday plans to keep planes flying as chief executive 
Michael O’Leary sought to resolve a crisis caused by the abrupt cancellation of more than 2,000 flights.
At the airline’s annual meeting in Dublin on Thursday, Mr O’Leary said its profit guidance for the full year would not 
be hit by the costs of dealing with the fallout from scrapping 50 flights per day for six weeks.
The airline confirmed it would increase pilot pay amid defections to Norwegian Air, while it also faces a bill of as 
much as €25m to compensate passengers.
The flight cancellations were caused by a shift from counting crew flying hours over a calendar year, instead of its 
fiscal year from April to March. Mr O’Leary on Thursday described it as a “boo-boo”, saying the debacle had left 
Ryanair with only 20 or 30 standby pilots on its roster when it usually had 150.
But Ryanair now risks stirring up further anger among pilots with a threat to take back a week’s holiday in October, 
having already faced outrage from customers and national regulators.
“We don’t need their agreement,” he said. “It is part of our working agreements with the pilots and our rostering 
agreements that if we need to take back holidays — with reasonable notice we can do so.”
Mr O’Leary was dismissive of employee councils representing pilots in 14 bases rejecting the company’s offer of a 
bonus to cancel leave and stay a year with the airline, describing the correspondence as “unsigned emails” 
circulating only among media and saying Ryanair had received nothing.
Ryanair pilots face holiday threat
Mr O’Leary said the company had known about the change in flying hours — overseen by the Irish Aviation 
Authority, under EU rules — since late 2016 or early 2017. Although Ryanair had agreed with pilots that they could 
take a four-week block of holiday as it moved to the new system, Mr O’Leary said an over-allocation of leave had 
led to a shortage of standby pilots on its roster.
“Pilots will still get their leave, they just may not be getting it in blocks of four weeks from October-November,” he 
said. 
“We will be looking to writing to our pilots saying — to the 500 pilots who have four weeks’ leave in October — I’m 
sorry we have to take one back. You can have three weeks’ leave in October and you can carry forward the fourth 
week of leave.”
At the AGM, a number of shareholders challenged Mr O’Leary, who took personal responsibility for the 
cancellations.
“We do have the sackcloth on. I have apologised personally to all of those passengers and to the ones we didn’t 
disrupt,” he said. “We are not going back to gung-ho management.”
Shareholder Brian Graham, a retired mechanic, who questioned Mr O’Leary during the meeting, said it was clear 
that there was “no goodwill” between the chief executive and pilots. “If it happened anywhere else he’d be asking 
for heads to roll,” Mr Graham said.
But Mr O’Leary said there would be no dismissals as a result of the affair, saying the board was holding him to 
account by requiring him to resolve the matter.
He acknowledged the airline was increasing pilot pay in Dublin from October in the face of attempts by Norwegian 
Air to poach Ryanair crew. Dublin-based captains could expect a total increase in their annual take-home pay of 
€22,000, he said. Pilot pay will also increase in Stansted, London, as well as in Berlin and Frankfurt.
“We do not believe there will be a change to guidance arising out of this issue — and therefore we remain 
comfortable with our profit guidance this year, which is for about €1.4bn-€1.5bn in profits,” Mr O’Leary said, 
referring to the airline’s post-tax profit projection.
Mr O’Leary rejected claims that the airline had lost 700 pilots this year. He said some 125 new pilots would start 
work with Ryanair this week, adding that a total of 500 new pilots would join by the start of its summer season next 
March.
David Bonderman, Ryanair’s chairman, was silent on the cancellation controversy at the meeting, leaving it to Mr 
O’Leary to explain to investors how it was dealing with the crisis. The chief executive was re-elected to the board 
with the support of 99.3 per cent of shareholders and no questions were asked in respect of his position at the 
meeting.
“Where we really messed up — and this was me — issuing that press release last Friday and not realising that if 
you just announce six weeks of cancellations but you’re only telling the first five days of people . . . It was 18m 
people we were carrying over the next six weeks and we upset, worried 18m people entirely unnecessarily when 
only 315,000 were going to be disrupted,” Mr O’Leary said.
“We did not think of the number of passengers over the next six weeks who would be worried and concerned and 
disrupted. Why didn’t we announce those other flights last Friday? Because we didn’t know which flights we’d be 
going to cancel and for that I apologise.”
Ryanair said it would have accommodated — or authorised refund requests to — more than 95 per cent of the 
passengers affected by the cancellations by the end of this week.
Load-Date: September 22, 2017
Ryanair pilots face holiday threat
End of Document
Ryanair chief ‘comfortable’ with full-year guidance despite booking debacle
Ryanair chief ‘comfortable’ with full-year guidance despite booking debacle
 
FT.com
September 21, 2017 Thursday 10:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 390 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley
Body
Michael O’Leary insisted Ryanair’s abrupt cancellation of more than 2,000 flights will not undermine its profit 
guidance this year as he said the airline was getting ahead of the problem.
At the company’s annual meeting in Dublin on Thursday morning, the Ryanair chief executive claimed personal 
responsibility for the debacle and said management was responsible for the “boo boo”. He was re-elected to the 
board with the support of 99.3 per cent of shareholders in the airline.
“We do not believe there will be a change to guidance arising out of this issue – and therefore we remain 
comfortable with our profit guidance this year which is for about €1.4bn-€1.5bn in profits,” he said, referring to the 
airline’s post-tax profit projection.
“Where we really messed up – and this was me – issuing that press release last Friday and not realising that if you 
just announce six weeks of cancellations but you’re only telling the first five days of people… It was 18m people we 
were carrying over the next six weeks and we upset, worried 18m people entirely unnecessarily when only 315,000 
were going to be disrupted.”
Mr O’Leary said he expected by the end of this week that Ryanair will accommodated – or authorised refund 
requests to – more than 95 per cent of the passengers affected by the cancellations.
Ryanair chief ‘comfortable’ with full-year guidance despite booking debacle
Mr O’Leary made little of employee councils representing pilots in 14 bases rejecting the company’s offer of a 
bonus to cancel leave and stay a year with the airline, describing the correspondence as “unsigned emails” 
circulating only among media.
He said the company has the right to ask pilots who have scheduled four weeks of leave in coming weeks to forego 
one week of their entitlement. He said many were happy to do so, adding that the airline has numerous pilots at 1st 
officer grade who want promotion to captain.
A number of shareholders challenged Mr O’Leary over the cancellations but he dismissed the suggestion that the 
company had returned to a “gung ho” management style.
“We do have the sack cloth on. I have apologised personally to all of those passengers and to the ones we didn’t 
disrupt,” he said. “We are not going to back to gung ho management.”
Mr O’Leary said Ryanair is increasing the pay of pilots in Dublin from October, with increases also likely at its bases 
in Stansted, London, as well as in Berlin and Frankfurt.
 
Load-Date: September 21, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: Fasten your seatbelts… it’s Ryanair ’s AGM
Opening Quote: Fasten your seatbelts… it’s Ryanair’s AGM
 
FT.com
September 21, 2017 Thursday 7:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 803 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Ryanair could sell tickets for its AGM later today – if it weren’t for the fact that it would probably have to cancel a 
whole load of them at very short notice owing to a mess-up with its boardroom holiday rota.
Its much larger – and very real – problem with pilots’ holiday entitlements and a resulting 2,100 flight cancellations 
has certainly ensured the shareholder meeting will be a turbulent affair.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has already been forced to admit that the company “f***ed up”, which 
rather begs the question: where does he go from here? An enquiry all too familiar to stranded passengers at 
Alicante.
Add to this suggestions of  of a shareholder revolt on pay, and it should make for quite an event. Advisory groups 
have called on investors to vote against executive pay proposals and the re-election of chairman David Bonderman. 
Institutional Shareholder Services, Glass Lewis and Pirc all flagged concerns about “poor disclosure” and bonus 
payments.
That’s assuming shareholders can actually get to the meeting this morning. Dublin is one of the airports at which 
Ryanair has cancelled 1 of 23 “lines of flight”
Since the cancellation debacle, Ryanair’s share price has fallen 8 per cent, so those in attendance will want to know 
how the airline managed to – or chose to – inflict so much damage on itself. Investors may also legitimately ask why 
Opening Quote: Fasten your seatbelts… it’s Ryanair ’s AGM
Ryanair did not immediately publish a full list of cancellations, leaving 18m passengers uncertain of their travel 
plans — rather than just the 315,000 actually affected.
A legal ruling that Ryanair cabin crew based overseas can pursue employment disputes within more sympathetic 
local courts, rather than only in Ireland, is further challenge to Mr O’Leary’s low-cost business model.
While Ryanair has insisted that there will be no change to its practice of employing staff across Europe on Irish 
contracts, which has wage benefits for the company, aviation analysts see it as an erosion of the airline’s cost 
advantage.
Fasten your seatbelts for a bumpy ride!
Compass, a company where strategic direction has been as clear as its name suggests, is to lose its much 
respected navigator next year. Richard Cousins will step down as chief executive of the world’s largest catering 
group on September 30 2018, after 12 years with the business. When he joined, in May 2006, the share price was 
236p. Compass shares closed last night at nearly 7 times that amount: 1,612p.
During Mr Cousins’ tenure, the company also returned £9bn to shareholders in dividends, special dividends and 
share buybacks. Shareholders therefore enjoyed a total return of 833 per cent – or 21.6 per cent a year – over the 
period.
He will be replaced by Dominic Blakemore, Compass’ chief operating officer for Europe.
Mr Cousins offered no reasons for his resignation, instead saying:
It has been a privilege to work with the many talented people that make up the Compass team. I am grateful to 
have enjoyed their support in building a world class business that has enormous potential to prosper further. I 
look forward to working closely with Dominic in the next six months to ensure a smooth handover and I am 
confident that he will lead the Group to even greater success in the future.
His most significant boardroom intervention of late, however, came not at Compass but at Tesco – where he was 
the senior independent director.
In January, he unexpectedly resigned from his position just days before Britain’s biggest retailer announced a deal 
to acquire Booker. Mr Cousins had argued that Tesco should make its business “simpler, not more complex” and 
quit when the rest of the board made clear it would back the deal.
And, finally, another FTSE CEO has decided 12 years is enough. Dorothy Thompson, one of the few women at the 
top of the UK energy sector, is leaving her role as boss of Drax.
Chairman Philip Cox said Ms Thompson “transformed the business during her tenure and leaves the group in a 
strong position”. She will leave at the end of this year, saying she “retires knowing the group is in excellent shape”, 
and will be replaced by Will Gardiner, currently the chief financial officer.
Drax, which owns the UK’s largest power station, has switched course over recent years to steel itself for a post-
coal future. It has converted parts of its colossal coal power plant in North Yorkshire to burn wood pellets, with the 
help of more than £450m in green energy subsidies in 2015 alone.
It is now seeking planning permission to build what could be the world’s biggest battery storage facility, in North 
Yorkshire, as it continues its  shift away from coal-fired electricity generation.
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for 
the full newsletter here.
For the latest Lombard column commentary,  click here.
Opening Quote: Fasten your seatbelts… it’s Ryanair ’s AGM
Load-Date: September 21, 2017
End of Document
Johnson Matthey surge sparked by investment in battery technology
Johnson Matthey surge sparked by investment in battery technology
 
FT.com
September 21, 2017 Thursday 5:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 449 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
An investment in next-generation battery technology delivered Johnson Matthey its biggest gain in almost a decade 
on Thursday.
The platinum chemicals specialist surged 14.6 per cent to £33.90 after setting out plans to invest £200m in bringing 
to market a cobalt-free battery material it claims will cut the cost and increase the range of electric vehicles. 
Matthey said at a capital markets day that tests by carmakers of the cathode material had been successful and it 
aimed to have batteries commercially available by 2021.
“We think Matthey has delivered a confident riposte to fears over its terminal growth given the diesel debate at the 
heart of the investment case,” said Morgan Stanley, 
“Cobalt is a small market and susceptible to large price swings, hence any thrifting is a positive development for 
automotive original equipment manufacturers,” said the broker.
“Success will clearly depend on the level of OEM adoption but it is an interesting development, and reminds us that 
the EV economy needs to be supported by technology improvements.”
A mixed wider market left the FTSE 100 little changed with the index drifting 0.1 per cent lower, or 8.05 points, to 
7,263.90.
B&Q owner Kingfisher reversed most of Wednesday’s post-results rally, losing 4.1 per cent to 300.2p. 
Johnson Matthey surge sparked by investment in battery technology
JPMorgan was among the brokers to remain cautious, saying Kingfisher will probably need to reinvest cost savings 
in response to growing competition. 
CRH rose 2.4 per cent to £27.19 after it agreed to buy Ash Grove, the fifth-largest cement producer in the US, for a 
$3.5bn enterprise value. 
Barclays estimated a boost to earnings per share of between 5 per cent and 7 per cent before synergies. 
“Although no official synergy target has been disclosed yet, CRH is Ash Grove’s largest customer and has been 
working in partnership with the company for decades. The integration of the assets may therefore prove beneficial,” 
it said.
Schroders was 1.4 per cent weaker at £32.66 after JPMorgan Cazenove downgraded to “neutral”. 
Ryanair crept 0.4 per cent higher at €16.57 as its botched pilot rota dominated the airline’s annual meeting.
Ryanair’s reputation problem could explain why it has cut prices by 8 per cent for the winter schedule, on the back 
of 15 to 17 per cent cuts for winter 2016, said Kepler. 
Downgrading the stock to “reduce”, Kepler also worried that Ryanair’s model would be undermined by the recent 
ruling from the European Court of Justice that employees classed as freelancers under Irish law can raise legal 
actions in their home base to claim back-pay and benefits.
Outsourcer Capita plunged 11.6 per cent to 569.5p after reporting a reduced bid pipeline and a weakening of its 
trading businesses. 
Load-Date: September 21, 2017
End of Document
How shy and retiring Dorothy took Drax-tic action
How shy and retiring Dorothy took Drax-tic action
 
FT.com
September 21, 2017 Thursday 10:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 330 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Dorothy Thompson, the immaculately suited chief executive of FTSE 250 power group Drax, does not look like 
someone who knows how to cut wood into optimally-sized biomass pellets. Lombard only discovered her expertise 
over lunch a few months ago, and was lucky to have had the chance — Ms Thompson seldom gives interviews, 
and is now stepping down after 12 years. She is literally shy and retiring.
This is a shame, both for shareholders and all those who want to discern the future of the UK energy industry. 
Because even back in 2005 — long before she knew about biomass pellet diameters — Ms Thompson knew which 
way the wind was blowing.
It was her early realisation of the UK’s need to remove carbon from the grid while maintaining stable power supply 
that led to the three decisions that saved Drax.
First, converting its coal-fired units to burn those biomass pellets — a decision that drew the ire of environmentalists 
over the transportation of US wood, but cut carbon emission by 80 per cent.
Second, moving to less controversial, and less subsidised, gas generation and battery storage — a recognition of 
the shift in emphasis from volume of electricity to rapidity of response.
Third, seeing demand reduction as another solution to supply constraint — an understanding that it can be more 
economical to pay a business customer not to use electricity at peak times than to generate it. It was therefore also 
How shy and retiring Dorothy took Drax-tic action
a shame for journalists that Ms Thompson shied away from interviews on Thursday. She probably knows more than 
most about this new “nega-watts” theory, as well.
---------------
Today’s other Lombard note: 
Ryanair resorts to the Fawlty Towers school of man management
---------------
Hostility to hospitality
Still need tickets for the Autumn rugby internationals? Try checking the resale websites next week. News that the 
Competition and Markets Authority is considering a limit on hospitality for investment consultants might free up a 
few for the east stand at Twickenham.
Load-Date: September 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair ’s voluble boss suddenly lost for words
Ryanair’s voluble boss suddenly lost for words
 
FT.com
September 20, 2017 Wednesday 4:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 879 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Michael O’Leary is seldom lost for words or slow to point the finger of blame. Regulators, airports, air traffic 
controllers and even passengers have found themselves subjects of bad-tempered tirades by Ryanair’s chief 
executive. 
But on Monday, after the budget carrier abruptly said it was cancelling up to 2,100 flights in the next six weeks 
because of problems with pilot rotas, the public saw a rare sight: a contrite Mr O’Leary holding his hands up and 
admitting that Ryanair had “f***ed up”. 
This admission will be galling to Ryanair’s longstanding boss going into the company’s annual meeting in Dublin on 
Thursday. 
Ryanair has established a reputation over the past 20 odd years as an operationally efficient company, with a good 
safety record and a laser-sharp focus on costs. But in the past month, it has had a string of problems: the 
cancellations, a European court ruling against it and signs of a shareholder revolt on pay.
The share price has responded with an 8 per cent drop over the past week. On the year though, it is still 32 per cent 
higher, compared with 18 per cent at its rival easyJet. 
“Michael has long argued that Ryanair does the fundamentals. It will take you on time, safely and with your bag. 
Until now that has largely been the case,” says John Strickland, a London-based aviation consultant. “Being so 
operationally focused they should have seen this coming.”
Ryanair ’s voluble boss suddenly lost for words
How  Ryanair got its rotas so wrong is likely to be a key question from shareholders on Thursday. Another will be 
why Ryanair did not immediately publish a full list of cancellations, choosing to worry all 18m of its passengers over 
the next six weeks — rather than just the 2 per cent affected. 
The cancellation mess, which will affect about 315,000 passengers, came at the end of a bad week: just a day 
before, Ryanair suffered a legal blow on cabin crew disputes that raises questions about its employment model and 
could lead to higher labour costs.
It had embarked on a legal battle to force employees across Europe to take disputes to the Irish courts but the 
European Court of Justice on September 14 ruled that cabin crew based in other countries could pursue legal 
claims locally. 
While Ryanair has insisted that there will be no change to its practice of employing staff across Europe on Irish 
contracts, which has productivity and wage benefits for the company, aviation analysts are not convinced.
“The Mons judgment comes at quite an interesting time and could put pressure on their business model,” says 
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC. “We estimate it could lead to a 20 per cent increase in Ryanair’s labour 
costs and could [have] a reasonable impact.”
Mr Lobbenberg notes the extra cost is of relevance — despite the fact that based on HSBC’s estimates, it would 
lower Ryanair’s net profit by only 12 per cent, and its financial margin from 24 to 20 per cent. 
“The real defining differentiator between Ryanair and other airlines in Europe is clearly how they run their company, 
how they manage relations with labour. The Mons judgment has the potential to lead to the removal of their relative 
advantage. It will still be a powerful company but its relative cost advantage over everyone else narrows 
meaningfully,” says Mr Lobbenberg.
The ECJ ruling, plus its pilot rostering problems, appear to point to a longer-term problem with labour costs.
As a short-term fix, Ryanair is offering pilots a £12,000 bonus for those who waive days off and stay with the airline 
for a year. Mr O’Leary told analysts on Monday that Ryanair will spend €20m-€30m over the next year to hire extra 
pilots. He also said it will have to increase pay in some countries — including Germany, the UK and Ireland — 
where competitors are poaching its pilots. 
Ryanair has lost 140 pilots to low-cost rival Norwegian Air since the beginning of the year. 
Mr O’Leary also admitted Ryanair had a shortage of experienced first officers who are ready for promotion to 
captain.
But some of these staffing problems may be harder to fix. One Ryanair pilot tells the Financial Times that pilots 
have had “enough”. 
“There’s a massive resentment across pilots. Pay [rises] may not even be enough.” 
He adds that more than 100 pilots were meeting on Thursday in Stansted to discuss working conditions. It follows a 
meeting of pilots in Dublin earlier this week.
While Mr O’Leary is adamant that Ryanair does not have a pilot shortage, pointing to a growth in numbers to 4,200 
and a waiting list of 2,500, it is clear pilots are not staying with the airline for as long as they used to. 
Ryanair’s annual 20-F filings to the US Securities and Exchange Commission show that the average length of a 
pilot’s employment at Ryanair was four years at March 2017. This was down from an average of 5.2 years in 2014. 
In the same period, the number of pilots employed by the airline rose to 4,058, from 2,665 in 2014. 
While there could be crunch points ahead, analysts acknowledge nonetheless that Ryanair is likely to retain its 
strong position in the industry. “It’s not going to change the fact that they will continue to offer some of the cheapest 
Ryanair ’s voluble boss suddenly lost for words
flights to passengers,” says Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum. “It doesn’t stop the long-term fundamentals of the 
business.”
Additional reporting by Arthur Beesley in Ireland
Load-Date: September 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair pilots reject £12,000 incentive to fly on days off
Ryanair pilots reject £12,000 incentive to fly on days off
 
FT.com
September 20, 2017 Wednesday 9:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 383 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley, Dublin
Body
Ryanair pilots have dismissed an offer of a £12,000 payment to waive days off and stay for a year with the 
business, a move that could compound serious rota problems at the airline after the cancellation of 2,100 
flightsaffecting more than 300,000 passengers. 
In a letter to the company on Wednesday, employee councils at 14 Ryanair bases around Europe said “a majority” 
of pilots had rejected the company’s offer. Such councils represent staff at Ryanair, which does not recognise trade 
unions. 
“The offer . . . is not an adequate offer and is being met with great resistance,” the letter said. “The pilot market is 
changing and Ryanair will need to change the ways in which the pilots and management work together to ensure a 
stable and common future for everyone.” 
The pilots have proposed a regional system with permanent local contracts for staff and fresh talks on new 
contracts to be concluded by January. Their move came on the eve of  Ryanair’s annual meeting on Thursday in 
Dublin. 
Asked about the pilots’ decision, the company said: “We will address this at the AGM tomorrow.” 
Ryanair made the bonus offer after it decided last weekend to cancel 50 flights per day for a six-week period after a 
shift to counting crew flying hours over a calendar year, instead of the fiscal year from April to March, meant too 
many of its pilots had hit their maximum allocation.
Ryanair pilots reject £12,000 incentive to fly on days off
The company has apologised for the disruption, blaming itself for “a mess of our own making” and saying it faces a 
€25m bill to compensate passengers. 
The airline has lost 140 pilots to low-cost rival Norwegian Air since the beginning of the year. Michael O’Leary, chief 
executive, has told analysts that the company will spend €20m-€30m over the next year to hire extra pilots. He also 
said it would have to increase pay in some countries — including Germany, the UK and Ireland — where 
competitors were poaching its pilots. 
In the letter, the pilots said their counter-offer “will help keep our planes in the air and bring our customers on time 
at their destination, now and in the long-term future”. 
The pilots want “professional assistance” in talks with Ryanair as they are not trained negotiators. In return for 
Ryanair backing their proposal, they said they would support the airline’s attempts to minimise cancellations. 
Load-Date: September 24, 2017
End of Document
Italian antitrust authority to investigate Ryanair cancellations
Italian antitrust authority to investigate Ryanair cancellations
 
FT.com
September 20, 2017 Wednesday 5:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 151 words
Byline: Jessica Dye
Body
Italy’s competition watchdog on Wednesday said it was launching an investigation into Ryanair after the Irish 
budget airline announced the cancellation of up to 2,100 flights over the next six weeks due to problems with pilot 
rotas.
Italy’s Antitrust Authority said it was looking into possible improper commercial practices related to the 
cancellations, and whether they were organisational in nature, due to factors about which management would have 
been aware, rather than circumstances beyond the airline’s control.
The agency is also probing the manner in which customers were informed of the cancellations and their right to 
claim financial compensation, according to the statement. Ryanair did not immediately return a request for 
comment.
Ryanair’s shares have fallen 8 per cent over the past week amid  several doses of bad news, including the 
cancellations, which will affect about 315,000 customers.
Load-Date: September 20, 2017
End of Document
What are the rights of passengers with cancelled Ryanair flights?
What are the rights of passengers with cancelled Ryanair flights?
 
FT.com
September 19, 2017 Tuesday 11:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 560 words
Byline: John Murray Brown in London
Body
Ryanair’s decision to cancel up to 2,100 flights over the next six weeks has left the airline facing a €25m bill.
Thousands of passengers, meanwhile, are asking what it means for their travel plans and their rights to 
compensation. 
If my Ryanair flight is cancelled, what are my rights to a refund?
If your flight is cancelled or delayed by more than three hours, the airline is required under EU rules to provide you 
with either a refund at the price you bought the ticket, a new ticket on the next available flight, or one for a future 
date. 
What happens if I choose an alternative flight?
If you opt to take another flight on the same day,  Ryanair is required under EU rules to provide “meals and 
refreshments in reasonable relation to the waiting time”, two telephone calls, fax messages or emails and 
“reasonable” hotel accommodation, including transport to the hotel, when an overnight stay becomes necessary.
However, the company says that if you make alternative arrangements, by hiring a car or taking the train, claims 
should be made to your travel insurance company. 
Am I entitled to further compensation?
What are the rights of passengers with cancelled Ryanair flights?
The EU rules state that an “airline will have no further obligation to provide assistance once you accept a refund of 
the ticket; or a rebooking at a later date”.
What if there is a flight on another carrier that arrives earlier than the next Ryanair flight?
The UK’s Civil Aviation Authority says that if an alternative airline is flying to your destination “significantly sooner” 
than the next flight offered by Ryanair, you have the right to be booked on to a different airline. However, Ryanair’s 
chief executive Michael O’Leary has said that the airline will not book passengers on to flights with rival carriers.
“We will not pay for flights on other airlines, no. It is not part of the EU261 entitlement,” he said, referring to 
European passenger rights legislation covering cancelled flights.
How much compensation could I receive?
Your entitlement to compensation ultimately depends on when the airline told you of the cancellation. A passenger 
is not entitled to a payout if a carrier gives you more than 14 days’ notice. You are also not entitled to compensation 
if you are informed between two weeks and seven days of the scheduled departure date and are offered a new 
flight which departs no more than two hours early, and arrives less than four hours late.
EU rules also state that a carrier is not required to pay compensation if it can show the cancellation is caused by 
extraordinary circumstances, “which could not have been avoided even if all reasonable measures had been taken”.
The amount to be paid out depends on the length of the flight. Under EU rules, you are entitled to €250 for all flights 
of 1,500km or less, €400 for trips between 1,500km and 3,500km, and €600 for journeys of more than 3,500km. 
If you choose to take the offer of a new flight and it arrives no more than two hours after the scheduled arrival time 
of your original flight, the carrier may reduce the compensation by 50 per cent.
Can I still claim compensation if the new flight Ryanair arranges takes me to another destination and I end 
up with a longer flight?
Yes, but at a lower rate. If you are flying on a short-haul flight of 1,500km or less and the re-routed flight is at least 
two hours late, you can claim €125. This rises to €200 for longer flights.
Load-Date: September 27, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair still operating with half normal number of standby pilots
Ryanair still operating with half normal number of standby pilots
 
FT.com
September 19, 2017 Tuesday 5:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 541 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair is still operating with about half the number of standby pilots it would normally rely on for its 2,000 flights a 
day, despite taking its abrupt decision to cancel flights for up to 400,000 passengers over the next six weeks.
Michael O’Leary, the Ryanair chief executive, told the Financial Times on Tuesday that the number of pilots on 
standby had fallen to 20-30 a day in early September, compared with its typical cover of 200. Its move to cancel up 
to 2,100 flights over the next six weeks has seen the number of standby pilots rise to more than 100 a day.
“The problem was the first week in September it looked like we were running with standby coverage of 20-30 pilots 
a day and that wasn’t enough,” said Mr O’Leary. “The weekend before last, we were cancelling flights, we were 
running out of duty hours, we were taking big flight delays . . . that’s why we said we wouldn’t go through a second 
weekend like that.”
Mr O’Leary was forced to apologise on Monday after passengers around Europe vented their fury on social media 
over the decision to cancel 50 flights a day starting on Saturday and running through October.
Ryanair’s chief executive blamed its rostering system for failing to warn the airline that it did not have enough pilots 
on standby if there were unexpected problems, such as air traffic control strikes or bad weather. He said the airline 
was working out what the minimum number of standby pilots should be. It is also in the process of buying back 
leave from pilots.
Ryanair still operating with half normal number of standby pilots
Mr O’Leary admitted that the budget carrier mishandled the communication of the flight cancellations on Friday 
evening. “By not having the actual list of cancellations on Friday we managed to upset/worry about 80m passengers 
flying with us over the next six weeks. We caused a storm of worry and concern. Apart from the rostering . . . that’s 
where we did really mess up,” he said.
The airline said the disruption had been caused by its shift to counting pilot and crew flying hours during a calendar 
year, instead of from April to March. This meant it had a backlog of staff leave to be taken over the next few 
months, which caused it to have too few pilots on standby over the next six weeks. Mr O’Leary denied that Ryanair 
had an overall shortage of pilots, noting it had increased pilot numbers over the past year to more than 4,200 pilots 
and had a waiting list of about 2,500.
Ryanair expects a bill of up to €25m from its decision to cancel the flights over the next six weeks. It told analysts 
on Monday it faced €20m in compensation payments and a €5m hit to profits, but insisted it would be a one-off cost. 
Analysts said the abruptness of the decision revealed both the tightness of crew scheduling at Ryanair, running 
close to the regulated limits of pilot flying time, and what appeared to be a poor system for managing flight 
disruptions. 
“I think we have to learn and we have to have a better early heads up warning system,” said Mr O’Leary. 
In a presentation to analysts on Monday, Mr O’Leary suggested the carrier would take steps to increase the size of 
crew per aircraft and to retain pilots. 
The cancellations come a few days after Ryanair suffered a blow following an unfavourable European Court of 
Justice ruling on staff disputes. 
Load-Date: September 20, 2017
End of Document
How passengers can win the war on carry-on luggage
How passengers can win the war on carry-on luggage
 
FT.com
September 19, 2017 Tuesday 9:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 685 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
Life on board has been deteriorating steadily for many economy airline passengers and we now have a war on 
hand luggage.
Ryanair has announced that, from November 1, unless they pay a “priority boarding” fee,  passengers will be 
allowed to take no more than a laptop bag or handbag on to their flights. Wheeled suitcases, even those of the 
required on-board size, will be placed in the hold.
Last week, the  Wall Street Journal reported that “basic economy” passengers on some US airlines were shocked 
to discover that the only hand luggage they were allowed had to fit under the seat in front of them. They were 
banned from using the overhead bins.
It is not just on budget airlines that carry-on luggage has become a problem. Any economy traveller watching the 
pre-take off scramble in recent years should have seen the hand luggage war coming. Many airlines allow a 
wheeled suitcase and additional bag on board — and some passengers have pushed this to the limit. You see them 
lumbering down the aisle wheeling a suitcase, a large laptop propped on top of it and a carrier bag or two around 
the suitcase handle.
As the flight, and the overhead lockers, fill up, passengers dart up and down, flipping open locker doors in a 
desperate search for one with room still left in it. When everyone finally sits down, the cabin crew frantically find 
places for the excess coats, suitcases and handbags, squeezing the overhead lockers shut so that the flight can 
finally take off.
How passengers can win the war on carry-on luggage
You do not have to be a Ryanair fan — a small club even before the airline announced the cancellation of 
thousands of flights after it “messed up” its pilots’ holiday rotas — to accept that Kenny Jacobs, its chief marketing 
officer, has a point: “Too many customers have too much stuff when they fly with us.” 
Why are customers carrying so much luggage on to the plane? Because they do not want to check it in. Low-cost 
European airlines such as Ryanair and EasyJet, and many airlines in the US, charge passengers to check luggage 
into the hold. Why pay when you have, until recently, been able to carry much of your belongings on to the flight 
free of charge?
Some airlines allow a suitcase to be checked in free but travellers still have a strong incentive to take as much as 
they can into the cabin. Not handing luggage over means less queueing at check-in, no hanging around the 
luggage carousel anxiously trying to recognise your bag after landing, and no fear of your luggage being lost or 
damaged.
But where the budget airlines lead, mainstream carriers follow, whether in charging for on-board meals or 
eliminating traditional perks such as toothpaste and socks. Airline industry profits are squeezed, even at leading 
carriers such as Emirates, and many companies see incremental charges as the way to make more money. 
Charging for hand luggage is likely to become the norm.
What should travellers do? First, the additional charges are sometimes worth paying if it means you can avoid the 
luggage carousel after landing. 
Otherwise, we can all try to travel with fewer things. How much of what we take when we fly do we really need? 
Experienced travellers are used to packing just one suit or smart jacket and mixing it with a different shirt each day. 
If you tear the trousers of the one suit you have with you, so what? They almost certainly sell clothes where you are 
going. 
Gym kit and trainers? Leave them behind. Why would you shut yourself in a light-deprived hotel gym when you are 
in a new city or even in a familiar one? Walking is good exercise and the natural light helps alleviate jet lag.
And here is a controversial suggestion. That laptop. Do you really need it, particularly when you have a powerful 
computer in your pocket? A phone is good enough for emails. Some will protest: what about those presentations 
you have to give when you land?
Because I know the importance of getting out of my seat to walk up and down the aircraft, I have had a look at the 
PowerPoint presentations people finalise on board. I often think how grateful the recipients would be if they were 
given a chatty speech instead. 
 Twitter:  @Skapinker
Load-Date: September 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair faces €25m bill from cancelled flights
Ryanair faces €25m bill from cancelled flights
 
FT.com
September 18, 2017 Monday 4:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 660 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger in London and Mehreen Khan in Brussels
Body
Ryanair faces a bill of up to €25m from the abrupt decision to cancel up to 2,100 flights over the next six weeks, a 
move the airline was forced to make to abide by safety rules for pilot flying time.
Michael O’Leary, the Ryanair chief executive, apologised on Monday after passengers around Europe vented their 
fury on social media over the decision to cancel 50 flights a day starting on Saturday and running through October.
“We apologise unreservedly to those customers whose travel will be disrupted,” said Mr O’Leary, scrambling to limit 
the reputational damage the airline has faced since announcing the cancellations on Friday. “This is a mess of our 
own making. I apologise sincerely to all our customers for any worry or concern this has caused.” 
Some passengers were not convinced. Stephen Smith, who only discovered his flight from Alicante to Manchester 
on Saturday morning had been cancelled when his wife’s boarding pass was rejected by security, said there had 
been little effort to help stranded passengers.
“I was gobsmacked a company could have such disdain for customers with no alternatives, no help or support,” Mr 
Smith said.
It remained unclear why the carrier had been unable to give advance notice of the cancellations at the weekend. It 
only published a list of flights affected on Monday afternoon. 
The disruption has been caused, at least in part, by Ryanair’s shift to counting pilot and crew flying hours during a 
calendar year, instead of from April to March. Mr O’Leary insisted the carrier was not short of pilots.
Ryanair faces €25m bill from cancelled flights
“We were able to fully crew our peak summer schedule in June, July and August, but we have messed up the 
allocation of annual leave to pilots in September and October,” he said. “This issue will not recur in 2018.”
The European Commission weighed in on Monday, reminding Ryanair it had to comply with EU rules on passenger 
rights, including possible reimbursement and compensation. “A passenger whose flights are cancelled has a 
comprehensive set of rights including the right to reimbursement,” said a commission spokesperson. “We expect 
Ryanair to comply by these rules.”
Ryanair told analysts it faced €20m in compensation payments and a €5m hit to profits, but insisted it would be a 
one-off cost.
Analysts said the abruptness of the decision revealed both the tightness of crew scheduling at Ryanair, running 
close to the regulated limits of pilot flying time, and what appeared to be a poor system for managing flight 
disruptions. 
Known for its relatively lower wages for pilots and crew, Ryanair has lost 140 pilots to low-cost rival Norwegian Air 
since the beginning of the year.
As a low-cost carrier operating with small numbers of aircraft in individual airports across Europe, Ryanair had less 
scope to keep extra crews and jets on hand in case of shortages, said Daniel Roeska, aviation analyst and former 
airline operations executive at Bernstein, the investment bank. 
“This is likely a decision some time earlier in the year where they decided to have a very, very low safety buffer — 
in terms of extra staff lying around to fly the planes,” Mr Roeska said. “I think simply they ran into a direct issue over 
[the] weekend which ran into this week. Likely they did not have any staff on hand any more to fly the planes.”
In a presentation to analysts on Monday, Mr O’Leary suggested the carrier would take steps to increase the size of 
crew per aircraft and to retain pilots. Such initiatives could lead to lower productivity and higher wage costs, said Mr 
Roeska. 
Ryanair has said the cancellations were because of problems with air traffic control, bad weather delays and the 
need to pack pilot and crew holidays into a short period as a result of the transition to a calendar year count on 
flying hours.
Ryanair’s share price fell on the backlash, down almost 7 per cent over the week after an unfavourable European 
Court of Justice ruling onstaff disputeson Friday. The shares fell 1.76 per cent on Monday.
Load-Date: September 20, 2017
End of Document
EU warns Ryanair may have to reimburse passengers for cancelled flights
EU warns Ryanair may have to reimburse passengers for cancelled flights
 
FT.com
September 18, 2017 Monday 12:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 216 words
Byline: John Murray Brown
Body
The European Commission has entered the row over Ryanair’s recent announcement that it is cancelling a number 
flights for a period of six weeks in order to sort out leave arrangements for its pilots.
The Commission said on Monday the low cost airline had to comply with EU rules on passenger rights, including 
possible reimbursement and compensation, over its plans to cancel between 40 and 50 flights per day until the end 
of October.
“Airlines operating in the EU need to respect the European rules…. Passengers whose flights are cancelled have a 
comprehensive set of rights,” a Commission spokesman told a news conference.
He said it was not for the Commission to comment on the operational decisions of an airline, but that Ryanair had to 
comply with the rules.
“We have to check if all this is respected by Ryanair. For instance, you are entitled to reimbursement if you are not 
warned two weeks in advance,” he said.
The airline has blamed a backlog of staff leave for the disruption, which has led to large numbers of its employees 
taking holidays towards the end of the year.
Ryanair is changing its holiday year, which currently runs from April to March, to run from January to December 
instead.
EU warns Ryanair may have to reimburse passengers for cancelled flights
The carrier said the shift meant it had to allocate annual leave to pilots in September and October.
Load-Date: September 18, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair ’s flights of fancy
Ryanair’s flights of fancy
 
FT.com
September 18, 2017 Monday 10:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 217 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Scene: Executives from a low-cost airline meet advisers to finalise a press release about sudden flight 
cancellations.
Exec 1: It’s important that we put this in context — it’s just 40-50 a day. 
Exec 2: People affected? 
Exec 1: Er no, flights. But that’s out of 2,500, so it’s still only . . . 
Exec 2: . . . around 30,000 people! Shouldn’t we be warning them?
Exec 1: We’ve sent out some emails. And the flights are listed on our website. Some of them. Somewhere. 
Exec 2: Can’t we give more notice? 
Exec 1: Nah, best to get it over with in just a few weeks. Stress it’s short term. That way, we don’t lose Christmas 
revenues.
Exec 2: What reason do we give?
Exec 1: The usual, you know: weather, air traffic control — and pilots insisting on taking their holiday entitlement.
Exec 2: Won’t that make it seem like we’ve been cutting it far too fine on staffing levels?
Ryanair ’s flights of fancy
Exec 1: Just sell the upside: fewer flights, fewer delays! Read it back, then.
Exec 2: “We’re cancelling less than 2 per cent of flights over the next six weeks to improve punctuality.”
Exec 1: Perfect!
Lombard is not suggesting that this was Ryanair’s thought process, but it would explain an awful lot . . . 
---------------
Today’s other Lombard notes: 
 BAE’s real Typhoon test will be navigating Gulf diplomacyXeros needs to dry up
---------------
Load-Date: September 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair ’s holiday rota mess is a management warning sign
Ryanair’s holiday rota mess is a management warning sign
 
FT.com
September 18, 2017 Monday 1:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 408 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
No explanation is likely to placate passengers bumped off the hundreds of Ryanair flights that the airline has just 
cancelled. But the carrier’s admission that it “messed up” in booking leave for its pilots will be as welcome as a 
rancid ham-and-cheese panini from the in-flight menu. 
Rosters and rotas are the mundane benchmark of competent operational management at any company with more 
than one member of staff. As everyone who has ever argued about a weekend shift or an unexpected call for 
holiday cover knows, the humble holiday spreadsheet, online calendar or wipe-on-wipe-off planner conceals a 
simmering pot of resentment. 
Hence the plethora of initiatives to prevent it boiling over, ranging from  ChurchDesk, an “all-in-one church 
management system”, to an international “             nurse rostering competition” aimed at finding new solutions to the 
intractable problem of managing hospital workers.
At companies where lives are not on the line, the impact of unexpected sickness, scheduling snafus and shift 
changes is usually absorbed by staff goodwill. When that goodwill is used up, trouble ensues. If a specific group of 
highly qualified staff members is critical to the satisfactory and safe operation of the service, as with airline pilots, 
train drivers, doctors and nurses, the risk of disruption is even greater.
In the past 18 months, rosters and rotas have reportedly been at the root of discontent among staff at carriers 
including El Al of Israel, Cathay Pacific and India’s Jet Airways.
Ryanair ’s holiday rota mess is a management warning sign
There is as yet no evidence of such a dispute at Ryanair. In fact,  its formal statement tried to recast the 
cancellation of 2 per cent of its flights over the next six weeks as an attempt to improve punctuality in the 98 per 
cent of the timetable that is not affected. But this won’t wash. 
The Irish Times on Monday  quoted “pilot sources” saying that Irish authorities were now enforcing a new 
interpretation of EU safety rules. Ryanair’s need to shift to a new calendar-year leave schedule, combined with the 
impact of thunderstorms and air traffic delays and strikes, seems to have brought the system to breaking point.
Either way, Ryanair managers’ inability to forecast and deal with annual leave is a warning sign. And however the 
problem is resolved, one inevitable consequence will never be measured: the knock-on impact on the rotas and 
rosters of passengers who, having missed their flights home, were themselves unable to get back to work.
Load-Date: September 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair slips 3% after staffing ‘mess up’ sparks cancellations
Ryanair slips 3% after staffing ‘mess up’ sparks cancellations
 
FT.com
September 18, 2017 Monday 9:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 185 words
Byline: Adam Samson
Body
 Ryanair shares dipped in early trading after the discount airline admitted that it “messed up” in booking leave for its 
pilots, prompting it to cancel hundreds of flights over the next six weeks.
The group said late on Friday that it will cancel 40 – 50 flights a day through to the end of October to “improve its 
system-wide punctuality.”
“We have messed up in the planning of pilot holidays and we’re working hard to fix that,” chief marketing officer 
Kenny Jacobs said in a statement.
Ryanair said its punctuality had dipped below 80 per cent in the first two weeks of September due to several 
factors. Among them are air-traffic control capacity delays, strikes, weather, and shifts to its holiday year.
“By reducing its scheduled flying programme over the next six weeks by less than 2 per cent (of its over 2,500 daily 
flights), the airline will create additional standby aircraft which will help restore on-time performance to its 90 per 
cent average,” the airline said. “Ryanair apologises sincerely for the inconvenience caused to customers by these 
cancellations.”
Shares declined 2.6 per cent to €16.62.
Load-Date: September 18, 2017
Ryanair slips 3% after staffing ‘mess up’ sparks cancellations
End of Document
Pro-Brexit bosses: beer mat politicians
Pro-Brexit bosses: beer mat politicians
 
FT.com
September 15, 2017 Friday 2:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 337 words
Body
Most UK bosses who back Brexit keep their views on the subject out of the corporate domain. Not so Tim Martin. 
Beer mats and the company’s in-house magazine left drinkers in JD Wetherspoon pubs in no doubt as to his stance 
on the matter. 
Much of the group’s results statement was devoted to the same subject. The remainder of it showed the group 
doing well; profit was up 15 per cent in the first full year since the Brexit vote. Selling cheap beer and food to Brits is 
not a business dependent on close trading links with Europe. Goods from EU suppliers could be readily substituted 
and just 5 per cent of staff are EU nationals. 
Many other listed companies with Brexit-backing bosses are similarly UK-focused. The main risk they face is a 
slowdown in UK consumer spending that Mr Martin says has not happened (despite “doom-mongering” by the 
Financial Times and others). Clothing retailer Next said on Thursday that conditions were “encouraging”. For those 
that do sell abroad, Europe tends to be less important a market than the US or Asia. It is just 5 per cent of revenue 
at Next and 3 per cent at Jardine Lloyd Thompson, the insurer. 
Post-referendum share price performances tell us little. Shares in Wetherspoon are up 38 per cent since June 2016 
because trading has improved, while it has bought back shares and improved the quality of its estate. CMC Markets 
is down 45 per cent because of a threatened regulatory crackdown, not because of founder Peter Cruddas’s views 
on Europe.
Longer term performances are often impressive. Wetherspoon has returned 4,690 per cent since floating in 1992. 
Next and Hargreaves Lansdown, a financial group, have also done well. Then again, so has Ryanair, whose chief 
executive was an advocate of staying in the EU.
Pro-Brexit bosses: beer mat politicians
Behind the scenes, business comes first. Good bosses do not let their political views colour their decisions. 
Investors should keep politics out of theirs, too.
Do you want to receive Lex in your inbox? Sign up for the weekly Best of Lex email at  www.ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: September 16, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair loses legal battle on cabin crew contracts
Ryanair loses legal battle on cabin crew contracts
 
FT.com
September 14, 2017 Thursday 4:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 653 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger in London and Mehreen Khan in Brussels 
Body
Ryanair was dealt a blow in its legal battle to force employees across Europe to take disputes to the Irish courts 
after the European Court of Justice ruled that cabin crew based in other countries could pursue legal claims locally.
Ryanair shares closed down 3 per cent, after analysts suggested it could call the low cost carrier’s employment 
model into question, leading to potentially higher labour costs. It could also open the door to new claims from crew 
in other countries over terms and conditions. 
Ryanair insisted, however, that there would be no change to its practice of employing staff across Europe on Irish 
contracts, which give the carrier cost-effective benefits over some other EU countries in terms of productivity and 
wage levels. 
While the jurisdiction had been decided by Thursday’s ruling, the battle now would be to decide whether Irish law 
would still apply, regardless of the jurisdiction. This decision was at least three to four months away, and then the 
complaint itself — from six cabin crew based in Belgium — would have to be decided. 
Eddie Wilson, the airline’s chief people officer, said he did not think the ruling “will in any way alter our Irish 
contracts of employment”.
“Irish legislation has adopted all EU directives on employment rights which . . . in some cases, offers better 
protection than some EU countries; for example, maternity leave in Ireland is more favourable than in Belgium.” 
Ryanair loses legal battle on cabin crew contracts
Ryanair claimed it had won a victory after the court ruled that the location where staff were based was only one of 
several factors, albeit a significant one, in determining jurisdiction. 
However, transport unions rejected Ryanair’s claim and insisted that the ECJ’s findings marked the first blow to an 
opportunistic use of more favourable labour laws. 
“Ryanair’s claim that this judgment supports them stretches reality beyond its breaking point. It’s pure wish 
fulfilment. The verdict is clear. They lost. Big time,” said Ruwan Subasinghe, legal adviser to the International 
Transport Workers’ Federation, which represents 700 transport trade unions from 150 countries. 
The ECJ’s decision is the latest to be taken in the sensitive area of workers’ rights. The EU’s highest court, which 
began its early life adjudicating mainly over trade disputes, has in recent years ruled on everything from an 
employee’s right to wear a hijab in the workplace to whether a plumber should consider their travelling hours as part 
of their working day.
Geert Van Calster, a professor at the Institute for European Law in Leuven, said the Ryanair ruling was not the 
“final blow” for the airline but would probably set a precedent in an area where EU governments are also becoming 
more sensitive to the rights of mobile workers. 
Yesterday Brussels announced it would establish a European Labour Authority to crack down on “social dumping”, 
where the movement of cheaper workers usually from eastern Europe is raising fears over the erosion of labour 
standards in countries with generous worker rights such as France or Denmark. 
Emmanuel Macron, the French president, has made reforming migrant laws on “posted workers” — where 
employees can temporarily work in another member state but pay social security in their home country — his first 
major push in a wider programme of EU reform. 
“There can be no second class workers,” said Jean-Claude Juncker, Commission president at his annual State of 
the Union speech on Wednesday. “Workers should earn the same pay for the same work in the same place.”
Mr Van Calster added: “The ECJ won’t be used for political purposes, but it won’t completely ignore the context in 
which the case law develops.”
Analysts also took a dim view of the implications of the ruling for Ryanair. 
Daniel Roeska, of Benstein investment house, estimated that roughly 60 per cent of Ryanair cockpit and cabin crew 
were based in jurisdictions with less favourable labour laws than Ireland. 
Load-Date: September 15, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet launches long-haul plan to connect airlines
EasyJet launches long-haul plan to connect airlines
 
FT.com
September 13, 2017 Wednesday 11:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 554 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
European passengers flying long-haul to the US or South America will now be able to book their flights through 
easyJet after the UK low-cost airline launched a service aimed at connecting flights internationally. 
EasyJet has teamed up with low-cost long-haul carriers Norwegian Air Shuttle and Canada’s WestJet to allow 
passengers to book connecting flights on a combined ticket. 
This means a traveller wanting to fly between Europe and then connect to the US, South America or Asia, and vice 
versa, will be able to do so by buying one ticket through easyJet’s website. 
The move by  easyJet will for the first time see the low-cost carriers rivalling the alliances of the traditional network 
carriers, such as Star Alliance, SkyTeam and OneWorld, which offer global connections through interline and code-
share agreements.
The UK low-cost airline said it was in talks with other carriers, including Middle-Eastern and Asian airlines, to 
expand the new service, which it has called “Worldwide by easyJet”. 
EasyJet is rolling out the initiative first at London’s Gatwick airport, its largest base. The budget carrier plans to 
expand the service to Milan Malpensa, Geneva and Barcelona as well as Paris Charles de Gaulle and Amsterdam 
Schiphol, two of Europe’s biggest transfer hubs.
It comes as Ryanair, easyJet’s main low-cost rival, has been working on similar plans. Michael O’Leary, the chief 
executive of Europe’s largest budget airline, has been vocal over the past few years on his plans to offer connecting 
EasyJet launches long-haul plan to connect airlines
flights to long-haul operators, but the airline has encountered some delays in signing big partnership deals. Ryanair 
is also in talks with Norwegian over teaming up. 
In May, Ryanair revealed a deal to sell flights to the US and Latin America as part of a partnership with Air Europa. 
It is looking at expanding this to allow Ryanair customers to connect to Air Europa long-haul flights through Madrid. 
“EasyJet appears to have stolen a march on Ryanair, which has been working on similar concepts for connecting 
flights and making much noise, but less progress,” said Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum. He noted that technology, 
compensation liability and airport co-operation have been the key obstacles for Ryanair. 
EasyJet has overcome those problems by using the GatwickConnects product, a service launched in 2015 that 
helps passengers self-connecting from one flight to another at the airport. 
The move is an attempt to compete against traditional flag carriers, such as Air France-KLM and British Airways, 
part of International Airlines Group, whose businesses rely on a traditional connecting model. 
Dame Carolyn McCall, easyJet’s outgoing chief executive, said it was targeting a market of about 70m passengers 
who fly long-haul through the airports easyJet operates in. 
“By opening this new market segment, this now means that easyJet can access a greater range of passengers 
flying across Europe,” she said. 
The service includes certain conditions aimed at making the operation run more smoothly for easyJet and its 
partner airlines. 
Passengers will have a minimum two-and-a-half hour connection time between flights to help lessen any problems 
with delayed flights. 
Flyers who check in a bag will have to collect it and hand it to a GatwickConnects desk for it to be loaded on to the 
connecting flight. 
Load-Date: September 14, 2017
End of Document
Air Berlin warns pilot protest puts sale plans at risk
Air Berlin warns pilot protest puts sale plans at risk
 
FT.com
September 12, 2017 Tuesday 2:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 402 words
Byline: Tobias Buck in Berlin
Body
Air Berlin has warned its staff that they were “playing with fire” and undermining plans for a sale of the stricken 
carrier after a co-ordinated protest by pilots forced the cancellation of more than 100 flights on Tuesday. 
The airline said about 200 of its 1,500 pilots had called in sick at short notice, in some cases while the rest of the 
crew were already on their way to the plane.
The German carrier filed for insolvency last month after Etihad, the Abu Dhabi-based airline and the main 
shareholder in Air Berlin, said it would no longer fund the heavily lossmaking company. Its assets are now up for 
sale, with bids due by Friday this week.
The auction is expected to draw interest from companies including Lufthansa, Condor and EasyJet.
But plans for an orderly sale — and the continuation of operations until then — are now at risk, Air Berlin’s 
management warned on Tuesday. 
“The staff of Air Berlin have until now dealt very professionally with the difficult situation of the company,” Thomas 
Winkelmann, chief executive, said. “But what we saw today from parts of the staff is playing with fire. Today will cost 
us several million euros.”
He added: “We are currently in final talks with possible investors. These negotiations can only succeed if we have a 
stable operation. That is the only way to save as many jobs as possible.”
Air Berlin warns pilot protest puts sale plans at risk
Frank Kebekus, a Düsseldorf-based lawyer who is in charge of the sale, said: “The events of today pose a massive 
risk to the whole insolvency procedure. If the situation does not change quickly, we will have to end operations and 
with that all our rescue efforts.”
More than 100 out of 750 flights scheduled for Tuesday had to be cancelled, Air Berlin said. The airports at Berlin-
Tegel and Düsseldorf were hit particularly hard, with more than 20 cancelled flights each.
Vereinigung Cockpit, the German pilots’ union, said it was “surprised” by the events, adding that it had not called on 
its members to call in sick. 
Over the past six years Air Berlin has racked up losses of about €2bn, with net debt reaching €1.2bn. 
In an effort to prevent airport chaos at the height of the summer travel season, the German government stepped in 
with a €150m credit line, allowing Air Berlin to stay in operation for another three months. The move sparked anger 
among some rivals, with Ryanair accusing Berlin of a “set-up” to help Lufthansa gain a dominant position in the 
German market. 
Load-Date: September 13, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair faces fresh shareholder rebellion over executive pay
Ryanair faces fresh shareholder rebellion over executive pay
 
FT.com
September 7, 2017 Thursday 4:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 594 words
Byline: Attracta Mooney
Body
Ryanair faces a fresh shareholder revolt at its annual meeting this month after adviser groups called on investors to 
vote against executive pay and the re-election of chairman  David Bonderman.
An influential trio of advisers — Institutional Shareholder Services, Glass Lewis and Pirc — have recommended 
investors vote against the low-cost carrier’s advisory pay report, flagging concerns about “poor disclosure” and 
bonus payments.
ISS, which advises more than 1,700 of the world’s biggest investors, and Pirc also advised against the re-election of 
Mr Bonderman, blaming the chairman for corporate governance failures at the Dublin-based carrier. 
Mr Bonderman, chairman and founder of TPG, the buyout group, recently stepped down from the board of Uber 
after making a sexist comment during a meeting at the ride-hailing company.
Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers has frequently clashed with shareholders at its annual meetings. 
Last year, almost a fifth of investors revolted on pay, marking the third year in a row when the airline faced 
significant protests over its remuneration policies.
ISS, Glass Lewis and Pirc, whose recommendations are widely used by asset managers and pension funds when 
deciding how to vote, said the total pay of Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, was not excessive, but 
expressed concerns about how his bonus was calculated. Mr O’Leary’s total pay last year was €3.26m, including a 
bonus.
Ryanair faces fresh shareholder rebellion over executive pay
Glass Lewis said it had “severe reservations about supporting the remuneration report at this time”. 
“We believe shareholders should be concerned by the structure of the company’s executive remuneration 
programme and the inadequacy of disclosure regarding several aspects of executive compensation,” it said.
ISS said: “While there has been some improvement, the overall level of disclosure remains lacking and does not 
allow for visibility between the vigour of targets set against performance achieved by the company.”
Mr O’Leary has repeatedly dismissed concerns about pay structures at the airline and big bonuses at listed 
companies. “My view of shareholders voting against my pay package is: if you don’t like it, don’t vote against it — 
sell your shares,” Mr O’Leary said last week.
In a statement to the Financial Times, Ryanair said: “We’re confident that all of the pay resolutions will be 
overwhelmingly passed by shareholders this year, as they are each year.”
The calls for a rebellion at Ryanair come as institutional investors increasingly show their teeth at annual meetings. 
Eighteen out of 20 big investors, including BlackRock, cast fewer votes in favour of management recommendations 
at AGMs in the year to the end of June, compared with the previous 12 months, according to data from Proxy 
Insight.
ISS also said it was concerned that Ryanair lacked enough independent directors because only 18 per cent of the 
board was independent. 
“The composition of the board and key board committees continues to fall short of best-practice guidelines,” it said. 
“We consider the board chair . . . to be ultimately responsible for governance failures at the company.”
The proxy adviser also expressed concerns that Mr Bonderman had too many demands on his time. The private 
equity veteran sits on the boards of four other listed companies, including Kite Pharma and Caesars Entertainment 
Corporation. 
“These external time commitments may undermine his ability to serve effectively in his role as board chair,” ISS 
said.
ISS this year announced that it would recommend votes against directors that sit on more than five boards. 
Load-Date: September 8, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair to cut carry-on allowance to one item
Ryanair to cut carry-on allowance to one item
 
FT.com
September 6, 2017 Wednesday 7:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 297 words
Byline: Hugo Greenhalgh
Body
Ryanair will allow non-priority boarding passengers just one piece of hand luggage from November 1, after the low-
cost airline said its two carry-on bag policy had proved too popular.
The airline is set to increase the usual check-in bag allowance from 15kg to 20kg – and cut the fee from €/£35 to 
€/25 in a move Ryanair said would cost it more than €50m in lost check-in charges.
From November 1, passengers will be able to check in their smaller “wheelie bag” at the boarding gate for free.
As part of its “Always Getting Better” programme, Ryanair said it wanted to encourage more passengers to check in 
their hand luggage to reduce the number arriving at the boarding gates with two bags.
With passenger numbers having reached 97 per cent capacity over August, the airline said “there is not enough 
overhead cabin space for this volume of carry-on bags”. The additional pieces of hand luggage were causing 
boarding and flight delays, Ryanair added.
Only priority boarding passengers will be able to take on two pieces of carry-on luggage from November 1.
Kenny Jacobs, chief marketing officer at Ryanair, said:
“We believe offering bigger bags at reduced fees will encourage more customers to consider checking in a bag, 
which will reduce the high volume of customers we have with two carry-on bags at the boarding gates, which is 
causing flight delays due to large numbers of gate bag and cabin bag offloads.
Ryanair to cut carry-on allowance to one item
“We hope that by restricting non-priority customers to one small carry-on bag – their wheelie bag must be placed in 
the hold, free of charge at the boarding gate – this will speed up the boarding of flights and eliminate flight delays 
being caused by not having sufficient overhead cabin space on busy flights to accommodate over 360 (182 
customers x two bags) carry-on bags.”
Load-Date: September 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair takes aim at wheelie bags to reduce flight delays
Ryanair takes aim at wheelie bags to reduce flight delays
 
FT.com
September 6, 2017 Wednesday 12:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 524 words
Byline: Hugo Greenhalgh, Wealth Correspondent
Body
Ryanair will crack down on carry-on wheelie bags because luggage-laden passengers are delaying flights as they 
struggle to find overhead locker space.
The airline said its policy of allowing travellers to carry on two bags — introduced as part of chief executive Michael 
O’Leary’s attempts to be more customer friendly — had proved too popular.
Passengers that have not paid £5 for priority boarding will from November 1 be restricted to one piece of hand 
luggage, the company said on Wednesday. People with priority boarding will still be allowed to bring two bags on 
board.
Pitching the changes as part of its “Always Getting Better” programme, the airline said it was trying to encourage 
customers to put their bags in the hold. It will increase its check-in bag allowance from 15kg to 20kg — and cut the 
fee from €/£35 to €/£25. Ryanair said these changes would cost it more than €50m in lost check-in charges.
“Flights are a lot busier and too many customers have too much stuff when they travel with us,” said Kenny Jacobs, 
chief marketing officer at Ryanair. “We can’t have flights delayed and customers don’t want their flights delayed.”
Airlines, particularly low-cost carriers, have been increasingly trying to boost their overall profits through ancillary 
revenue, such as making money from baggage fees, onboard meals and services on top of ticket sales. 
Ryanair takes aim at wheelie bags to reduce flight delays
But John Strickland, director of air transport consultancy JLS Consulting, said passengers had “wised up” to 
additional fees being levied. “It’s become a Frankenstein’s monster, not just for Ryanair but every airline: we’re all 
carting on our wheelie bags in place of checking them in.”
Mr Jacobs said Ryanair’s move was not a return to the past, when the airline had a reputation for poorer customer 
service.
“In the bad old days we weren’t as profitable, we weren’t as big and we didn’t have the load factor that we have 
today. We remain committed to strongest demand and having the lowest fares, so there is no return to the bad old 
days.”
Some airlines, including Norwegian, have warned that passengers might be requested to check in carry-on bags on 
busy flights.
Low-cost airlines Jet2.com and easyJet have introduced a level of charging on hand luggage. Jet2.com said 
passengers could still take 10kg of hand luggage onboard free of charge. On busier flights, however, a 
spokesperson said some bags might need to be checked.
EasyJet recently introduced a £4 fee for passengers to check their hand luggage into the hold.
Paul Moore, a spokesman for easyJet, said every airline faced the same issue. “Whichever aircraft we fly — 
whether it is a Boeing or an Airbus — there are not enough overhead lockers if every passenger turned up with a 
trolley bag,” he said. 
For airlines, charging for hand luggage is a way to remain punctual, said Chris Tarry, an aviation consultant at 
CTAIRA. “Airlines are looking for ways to change behaviour and get the airline turned around as quickly as 
possible.”
According to a  recent report from IdeaWorksCompany, a Milwaukee-based aviation consultancy, the top 10 airlines 
by ancillary revenue made an estimated $28bn in 2016 — up from $2.1bn in 2007.
Load-Date: September 7, 2017
End of Document
Brussels approves Germany ’s €150m Air Berlin loan
Brussels approves Germany’s €150m Air Berlin loan
 
FT.com
September 4, 2017 Monday 1:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 238 words
Byline: Rochelle Toplensky
Body
Brussels has approved Germany’s €150m bridging loan to Air Berlin, keeping the country’s second largest airline 
flying through the summer while the state negotiates the sale of the company’s assets.
European Competition officials said: “rescue and restructuring aid are among the most distortive types of state aid 
and can only be granted to companies once these have exhausted all other market options.”
To minimise competitive harm, the loan installments will be paid only after the regulator is shown each week that 
“all existing liquidity has been used”. The loan is limited to a maximum of €150m and will need to be fully repaid 
within six months. If the money cannot be repaid, Germany will have to submit a winding-down plan to the EU 
competition officials for approval.
 The airline collapsed on 15 August after its main shareholder, UAE-based carrier Etihad, cut funding which 
launched a fierce battle for its prime take-off and landing slots in Germany, the third largest market in Europe, by air 
passengers.
Early indications that Lufthansa, Germany’s biggest carrier, was in talks to buy some of Air Berlin’s assets led 
Ryanair to brand the state bailout a “conspiracy” to protect national carrier.
The Irish low-cost carrier has been trying to build its presence in Germany and called instead for an auction of Air 
Berlin’s assets – similar to the process used to wind up Alitalia after  it too lost its funding from Etihad.
Brussels approves Germany ’s €150m Air Berlin loan
Load-Date: September 4, 2017
End of Document
Brexit and airlines: above the clouds
Brexit and airlines: above the clouds
 
FT.com
August 31, 2017 Thursday 4:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 365 words
Body
The hero in the film The Terminal spent a lot of time in an airport, unable to enter the country or leave it. Those 
monitoring the UK’s interminable Brexit negotiations may sympathise. Hard to go forward, even trickier to go back. 
One area of conflict though may get more attention sooner: air travel within the EU. Expect a compromise, given the 
high stakes.
The market focuses on three factors: European traffic rights, ownership rules and sterling. The last, which directly 
hits sales and profits, has already registered. sterling’s trade weighted rate has dropped 15 per cent since last 
summer’s referendum, hurting easyJet in particular.
The other two may not have sunk in. An open skies agreement enables UK-registered airlines to fly to, from and 
within Europe. Technically, leaving the EU means quitting the agreement — and without a replacement treaty, 
warns Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary, flights between the UK and EU could be grounded. That seems far-fetched. 
Other countries would object; almost 70m UK passengers fly to Spain annually, a fifth of its EU air traffic, says 
Frontier Economics. Cutting off the UK might not suit Air France-KLM either. The Dutch half profits from UK 
passengers transferring through Amsterdam’s airport. 
EU rules require airlines flying within Europe to be European owned. No problem now, but troublesome once UK 
investors no longer count as “European”. Ryanair thinks it can manage any shortfall by buying stock back from US 
or UK investors, while Stelios Haji-Ioannou, a major shareholder in easyJet (and its new Austria-
registered European subsidiary) has dual UK-Cypriot nationality. But neither they nor British Airways owner IAG can 
be certain there will be no issues. 
Brexit and airlines: above the clouds
Still, for all Mr O’Leary’s warnings, it is hard to believe that either airlines or governments want cessation of UK-EU 
traffic. Expect more soothing noises about air travel in the months ahead.
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Is Mr O’Leary scaremongering, or a lone voice of reason? 
Please tell us what you think in the comments section below. 
Do you want to receive Lex in your inbox? Sign up for the weekly Best of Lex email at  www.ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: September 3, 2017
End of Document
Assets of insolvent Air Berlin attract interest from rivals
Assets of insolvent Air Berlin attract interest from rivals
 
FT.com
August 25, 2017 Friday 2:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 365 words
Byline: Tobias Buck in Berlin
Body
The assets of insolvent German carrier Air Berlin are attracting growing interest from rival operators as worries 
increase that the group’s demise could deal a blow to competition and raise prices.
Lufthansa, the national flag carrier, has already made clear it plans to bid for parts of the group and further boost its 
already strong position in the German market. 
But Lufthansa is likely to face competition from rival airlines including Condor, a subsidiary of Thomas Cook. 
Condor is expected to bid for a “high double-digit” number of medium-haul planes currently belonging to Air Berlin, 
as well as “some” long-haul planes, a person briefed on the negotiations said.
EasyJet, the UK low-cost carrier, has been tipped as another bidder for Air Berlin assets, while a consortium led by 
German businessman Hans Rudolf Wöhrl has said it wants to take over the stricken airline in its entirety.
Air Berlin filed for insolvencythis month after Etihad, the Abu Dhabi-based airline and the main shareholder in Air 
Berlin, said it would no longer fund the lossmaking carrier.
Over the past six years Air Berlin racked up losses of about €2bn, with net debt reaching €1.2bn.
In an effort to prevent airport chaos at the height of the summer holiday season, the German government stepped 
in with a €150m credit line, allowing Air Berlin to stay in operation for another three months. 
Assets of insolvent Air Berlin attract interest from rivals
But the move sparked anger among some rivals, with Ryanair accusingBerlin of a “set-up” to help Lufthansa gain a 
dominant position. 
Lufthansa and Air Berlin already have a close relationship, following an agreement last year for the latter to operate 
40 aircraft for the German flag carrier’s subsidiaries.
Analysts point out that a combination of the two German airlines would deal a significant blow to competition, 
especially on domestic flights. 
A recent report by Bank of America Merrill Lynch found that a full integration of Air Berlin into Lufthansa would 
create an airline with 98 per cent of the market for flights between German cities.
The German government said on Friday it was interested in a “speedy solution that is good both for staff and for 
competition”.
Lufthansa, easyJet and Condor declined to comment.
Load-Date: August 27, 2017
End of Document
Air Berlin / Lufthansa : terminal velocity
Air Berlin/Lufthansa: terminal velocity
 
FT.com
August 22, 2017 Tuesday 3:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 344 words
Body
Everybody is good at something. Air Berlin has shown skill at losing money, doing so at the operating level for eight 
of the past nine years. Last week, Germany’s second-largest airline filed for insolvency after its largest shareholder 
Etihad, the UAE-based carrier, halted financial support. 
National champion Lufthansa looks to have the inside track on buying up Air Berlin. Already the former has bought 
planes from Air Berlin, leasing them back, thereby making the flag carrier a creditor. Instead of supporting 
competition, the German  government seems to favour consolidation of the market. Great for Lufthansa holders, but 
bad news for consumers.
Air Berlin is likely to be sold in parts. It has the largest share of passengers at one of the two Berlin airports, Tegel, 
favoured by business flyers, and at busy Düsseldorf.
Lufthansa dominates three other big airports: Frankfurt, Munich and Hamburg. A combination of the two carriers 
would mean Lufthansa controlling half of German airport slots and 90 per cent of the domestic market. Champion 
indeed. It could rule the air on domestic pricing.
All this upside has put some octane into the share price of Lufthansa. Already this year, cost cutting, labour dispute 
settlements and better traffic have boosted its share price 75 per cent, far ahead of the MSCI European Airlines 
index. 
Germany is Europe’s fourth-largest airline market, but one of the least profitable last year, notes consultant RDC. 
One fewer airline only decreases competition for flyers. Irish carrier Ryanair, which managed to snag some slots at 
Air Berlin / Lufthansa : terminal velocity
Frankfurt last year, would dearly like to challenge Lufthansa more directly. However, given Lufthansa’s front-running 
positionRyanair and rival easyJet may be lucky to get anything in the sale process.
As poor as Air Berlin has been at running its airline, Lufthansa has shown great élan by positioning itself as the 
favourite for the assets. Let its rivals display their skills as well. 
Do you want to receive Lex in your inbox? Sign up for the weekly Best of Lex email at  www.ft.com/newsletters.
Load-Date: August 22, 2017
End of Document
Airline and leisure stocks wobble on Barcelona terror attack
Airline and leisure stocks wobble on Barcelona terror attack
 
FT.com
August 18, 2017 Friday 7:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 223 words
Byline: Paul McClean
Body
Shares in European airline and leisure stocks are stumbling following two  terror attacks in Spain that have killed at 
least 13 people and left dozens injured.
The broad Euro Stoxx Travel and Leisure index is down 2.3 per cent, with hotels and airlines the biggest fallers.
At pixel time, Ryanair is down 3 per cent at €18.35, IAG, the parent company of British Airways, is slipping 3.1 per 
cent at 605p, and easyJet shares are falling 3.2 per cent at £12.59.
Shares in Accor, the hotel operator, are down 1 per cent at €39, and Intercontinental Hotels Group is down 1.5 
per cent at £39.30, making it the biggest faller on Spain’s Ibex index. Spanish hotel chain Melia is down 2.2 per 
cent.
Package holiday companies are also falling: Thomas Cook is sliding 1.9 per cent, and Tui is down 0.5 per cent.
Terror attacks have badly hit travel companies in recent years, with tourists put off from traveling amid fears of 
repeat attacks. Thomas Cook had warned last year that terrorist incidents in Paris, Istanbul, Brussels and 
elsewhere across Europe had “  severely weakened” demand for holidays, though its earnings and share price have 
since recovered from the hit.
Thursday’s terror attack was the worst in Spain since the Madrid train bombings in 2004. Spanish police have killed 
five suspects and arrested two others as investigations continue.
Airline and leisure stocks wobble on Barcelona terror attack
Load-Date: August 18, 2017
End of Document
Week in Review, August 19
Week in Review, August 19
 
FT.com
August 18, 2017 Friday 9:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1365 words
Body
A round up of some of the week’s most significant corporate events and news stories.
Mixed results for US chains battling rise of online rivals
A host of US retail companies reported earnings this week, revealing patchy but less dire results than analysts had 
forecast, as heavy investments by big box retailers appeared to pay off, writes Anna Nicolaou.
The US retail sector is experiencing huge upheaval, as online shopping and in particular ecommerce behemoth 
Amazon have upended traditional business models, and consumer tastes evolve.
Those best equipped to withstand the disruption have been companies with deep pockets, such as Walmart, which 
reported that ecommerce revenues rose 60 per cent in the second quarter. Comparable sales rose 1.8 per cent, the 
12th consecutive quarterly rise. 
Target, whose cheap-chic offerings have garnered a loyal middle-class following, also offered positive news, 
reporting a 1.3 per cent rise in comparable sales, its first gain in five quarters. The growth follows Target’s 
announcement in March of a turnround plan to sacrifice $1bn of profit margin this year in order to compete better 
against Amazon online.
Urban Outfitters, the teen-focused apparel company. reported adjusted earnings per share of 45 cents, topping the 
consensus for 36 cents and sending shares soaring 16 per cent as a sign of lifefor stores struggling with declining 
mall traffic. 
Week in Review, August 19
Other retailers fared worse, however. Dick’s Sporting Goods, the Pittsburgh-based sports chain, sharply lowered its 
earnings and sales outlook on Tuesday, while Coach also warned its sales in this fiscal year could come in below 
Wall Street expectations, sending shares tumbling. 
Ryanair fury as Lufthansa sizes up Air Berlin assets
Air Berlin became the second large European airline to go bankrupt this summer after it was forced to file for 
insolvency on Tuesday when its biggest shareholder pulled its funding, writes Tanya Powley.
Germany’s second-largest carrier was saved from a full collapse after Berlin stepped in with a €150m loan to keep 
the airline flying through the busy summer months while it negotiated the sale of parts of the business to Lufthansa 
and one other airline.
The move was triggered when Etihad, the Abu Dhabi-based airline that owns 29 per cent of Air Berlin, decided not 
to pump in any more money after providing a series of cash injections over the past six years to keep it afloat. 
Air Berlin’s insolvency comes just four months after Alitalia, the Italian carrier, entered administration after its 
employees rejected a restructuring plan and Etihad, which also owns a significant stake in Alitalia, said it would 
provide no more funding. 
Air Berlin has been under pressure after racking up losses of about €2bn over the past six years. The situation has 
worsened as Etihad has faced its own challenges, forcing it to unravel its strategy of buying minority stakes in 
airlines to drive traffic to its hub in the Gulf. Etihad made losses of $1.9bn in 2016. 
Air Berlin’s collapse has sparked a fierce battle over the rights to prime German take-off and landing slots, with 
Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, branding a state bailout of the airline as a “conspiracy” to protect national 
carrier Lufthansa. 
China Unicom in line for $11.7bn of private capital
China Unicom, the country’s second-largest mobile operator, will receive a $11.7bn capital injection from some of 
China’s biggest ecommerce and internet groups, including Alibaba, Tencent and Baidu, writes Don Weinland in 
Hong Kong.
The investment is the latest step in the government’s efforts to pump private capital into declining state-controlled 
businesses.
Ten groups will buy a total of 35.19 per cent of Unicom’s Shanghai-listed unit. Of this, Alibaba, Tencent, Baidu and 
one other group, JD.com, will hold a combined 12.6 per cent.
State-backed companies will also invest. China’s biggest life insurance company China Life, as well as a 
government-controlled fund that invests in companies undergoing reform, will take large stakes.
China Life will buy by far the biggest stake of any single group, at 10 per cent. Unicom’s parent company will 
maintain a 36.67 per cent holding.
Tencent president Martin Lau described the  ownership reform scheme as “a very momentous step in the 
development of the country”.
The round of investment had been anticipated for months and was announced on Wednesday.
So-called “mixed-ownership reform” — the introduction of private capital into state groups — has been touted by Xi 
Jinping, leader of China’s communist party, as a means of revitalising state groups.
However, industry watchers say private investment in state groups has produced few, if any, results over the past 
two decades.
Week in Review, August 19
Top management at state companies is still chosen by government agencies and bears little connection to 
commercial performance, experts say.
KPMG and PwC fined over substandard external audits
US and UK regulators shone a light on poor practice at accountancy firms this week, slapping both KPMG and PwC 
with hefty fines for audit failures, writes Hannah Murphy. 
KPMG was on Tuesday hit with a fine of more than $6.2m by the US Securities and Exchanges Commission over 
its audit of oil and gas company Miller Energy in 2011. Miller had overvalued certain assets by more than 100 times 
and last year settled accounting fraud charges with the SEC.
A day later,  PwC was fined £5.1m by the Financial Reporting Council — the largest ever penalty issued by the 
UK’s accounting watchdog — for “extensive misconduct” relating to the audit of a smaller consultancy firm RSM 
Tenon. 
PwC admitted to five separate instances of misconduct in its 2011 audit of the company, which was later forced to 
restate its accounts for that year after discovering “significant errors”.
RSM Tenon was put into administration in 2013 after building up major debts and sold to rival Baker Tilly. 
Regulators are keen to improve the quality of external audits. So far this year, the FRC has launched investigations 
into the audit of UK companies including Rolls-Royce, BT and Mitie — which involve KPMG, PwC and Deloitte 
respectively.
Akzo Nobel ends bitter spat with largest shareholder
Akzo Nobel, the Dutch paintmaker behind the Dulux brand, agreed a truce with the activist investor Elliott Advisors 
following a bitter feud over the company’s rejection of a €27bn takeover offer, writes Michael Pooler.
The Amsterdam-based group announced an agreement with its largest shareholder, which holds a 9.5 per cent 
stake in Akzo and for months has berated its management and brought legal challenges against the company.
A dispute blew up earlier this year over the Akzo’s refusal to engage in buyout talks with its US rival PPG Industries. 
A combination would have created a dominant player in the $130bn global paints and coatings market.
Under the peace deal, both parties will suspend all ongoing litigation for at least three months. Elliott has 
unsuccessfully pursued a legal case to force the removal of Akzo’s chairman, Antony Burgmans, who was seen an 
obstacle to a deal with PPG and is retiring next year. 
For its part, Akzo nominated two new board members and said it intended to nominate a third, in consultation with 
its major shareholders. 
In exchange Elliott Advisors, which is the UK arm of the New York-based hedge fund, will back the appointment of a 
new chief executive. Thierry Vanlancker is taking over from Ton Büchner, who resigned last month due to health 
reasons.
The accord also included “alignment” on Akzo’s plan to split itself into two separate entities. As part of its defence 
against PPG, Akzo pledged to separate its speciality chemicals division, leaving a core business focused on paints 
and coatings. 
Elliott, which led a band of dissenting shareholders who publicly criticised the Dutch company’s handling of the PPG 
episode, said it “look[ed] forward to building upon the recent constructive dialogue”. 
Week in Review, August 19
This week Elliott also revealed it had increased its stake in BHP Billiton, with a 5 per cent cash position in the 
group’s London-listed shares. Elliott has alleged the miner has underperformed its peers, needs to return more 
cash to shareholders and exit its US shale operations.
Load-Date: August 20, 2017
End of Document
Failed Ryanair - Ukraine deal is a blow to pro-western leadership
Failed Ryanair-Ukraine deal is a blow to pro-western leadership
 
FT.com
August 16, 2017 Wednesday 4:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 740 words
Byline: Neil Buckley
Body
It was supposed to be a success for Ukraine’s pro-western leadership: a deal with low-cost airline Ryanair to enter 
the market with flights to Kiev and the western city of Lviv.
It would have helped Ukrainians take advantage of the visa-free travel they were recently granted by the EU — and 
shown that Ukraine, three years on from its pro-democracy revolution, is ready to attract much-needed investment. 
Instead, the opposite happened. 
Ryanair last month cancelled its plans, accusing Kiev’s main Boryspil airport of “failure to honour a growth 
agreement”. 
In a blow to the authorities, Ryanair’s chief commercial officer David O’Brien said that the airport had “demonstrated 
that Ukraine is not yet a sufficiently mature or reliable business location to invest valuable Ryanair aircraft capacity”.
The budget airline accused Kiev of choosing to “protect high-fare airlines (including Ukraine International Airlines)”, 
the country’s largest carrier. 
Local media and pro-reform MPs pointed the finger at UIA, the dominant airline at Boryspil, and its co-owner Igor 
Kolomoisky, one of Ukraine’s wealthiest oligarchs, for allegedly managing to torpedo the deal. Ukrainian social 
media exploded with angry comments.
Failed Ryanair - Ukraine deal is a blow to pro-western leadership
The failure probably matters more to Ukraine than to Ryanair. Kiev officials desperately need to attract foreign 
investment to encourage growth as the country emerges from the economic slump that followed the 2014 revolution 
and Russia’s annexation of Crimea. Wooing the low-cost carrier would have been a much-needed boost.
Ryanair’s plan to open four routes to Kiev and seven to Lviv would have involved only 1 per cent of its capacity. 
Even so, it would have taken the airline into a 45m-strong market where air travel is growing fast from a low base. 
Both the EU visa-free agreement and economic recovery offer the prospect of continuing rapid growth towards west 
European levels. 
Although accounts differ over exactly why the talks failed, it is clear that Ukraine’s corporate and state officials 
handled the situation badly. 
Ryanair thought it had a deal with Kiev’s privately owned second airport, Zhuliany, to which Hungary’s low-cost 
Wizz Air already flies. 
When that fell through at the last moment, Ukraine’s infrastructure minister, anxious to find a way to allow Ryanair’s 
plans to go ahead, signed a letter of intent involving state-owned Boryspil, instead.
Kiev officials say that committed Pavlo Ryabikin, Boryspil’s director, to terms he could never have agreed to as they 
would have undermined the airport’s commercial model.
Mr Ryabikin has revealed some details of the collapsed deal and called them untenable, including a five-year 
passenger fee for Ryanair of $7.50 per traveller that he said was below cost, well below what it charges other 
airlines, and would have left it with big losses.
Other people familiar with the talks say that Mr Ryabikin was present when the letter of intent was signed, and 
raised no objections. 
Some airline executives suggest that Boryspil, as Ukraine’s premier airport, is underperforming, partly because of 
its role as a hub for UIA, and it might be no bad thing for it to change its model.
UIA denied last month that it had lobbied to prevent the Ryanair deal, insisting that it would welcome the low-cost 
carrier’s arrival to “provide an impetus to infrastructure development”. 
But it later filed a lawsuit against the infrastructure ministry, claiming that its letter of intent with Ryanair violated the 
law as well as discriminating against UIA and threatening development of air transport in Ukraine.
Boryspil is now re-evaluating its model with the aim of reducing passenger fees to all airlines — in what could 
provide a route to reopening talks with Ryanair. 
The government is making the right noises, insisting that it is committed to investigating why the Ryanair deal failed 
and to luring low-cost carriers. It has suggested upgrading Gostomel, a cargo airport near Kiev that is a base for 
Antonov, the aircraft manufacturer, with a terminal for low-cost airlines.
It is not too late for Ukraine to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat and find a way to entice Ryanair. 
If it can, the airline’s jibe about Ukraine not yet being a reliable business destination could be quietly buried. 
Ukraine’s aspiring tourists, and all those who support its attempts to curb corrupt leadership and integrate more 
closely with western Europe, will be hoping that a solution can be found.
Load-Date: August 27, 2017
Failed Ryanair - Ukraine deal is a blow to pro-western leadership
End of Document
Air Berlin collapse threatens to clip rivals’ wings
Air Berlin collapse threatens to clip rivals’ wings
 
FT.com
August 16, 2017 Wednesday 6:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1207 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London and Jonathan Eley in Frankfurt
Body
The collapse of Air Berlin has sparked a fierce battle over the rights to prime German take-off and landing slots, 
with Ryanair branding a state bailout of the  airline as a “conspiracy” to protect national carrier Lufthansa. 
At stake is a valuable slice of the booming aviation market in Germany, Europe’s third largest by passenger 
numbers. But this prize appears to have moved out of reach of some international rivals after Lufthansa, Germany’s 
biggest carrier, emerged on Tuesday as leading talks to rescue its foundering rival.
Air Berlin, which is Germany’s second-biggest airline, was forced to file for insolvency after its largest shareholder 
Etihad, the UAE-based carrier, halted financial support. The airline has racked up losses of about €2bn over the 
past six years as it faced mounting competition from low-cost rivals such as Ryanair and easyJet. 
The German government stepped in with a €150m loan to keep Air Berlin flying through the busy summer months 
while it negotiated the sale of parts of the business to Lufthansa and one other airline. 
But within hours, the move was decried as a “set up” by Ryanair. Europe’s biggest low-cost airline has spent years 
aggressively building up its market share in Germany, attracted by its strong business travel and leisure demand. 
Ryanair competes for passengers with Eurowings, Lufthansa’s low-cost airline based in Cologne.
“It is a complete and utter conspiracy,” said Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s outspoken chief executive, alleging that the 
deal was done to stop its own expansion into Germany. 
Air Berlin collapse threatens to clip rivals’ wings
“The German market is one of the biggest prizes in Europe,” Mr O’Leary said. “Instead of appointing a liquidator 
and selling it to all the airlines that would clearly want to invest in the German market, it is carved up so that 
Lufthansa can buy it.” 
He pointed to the auction process under way for Alitalia, the Italian carrier that entered administration in May, as the 
right way to sell Air Berlin. Alitalia, like Air Berlin, was backed by Etihad but also collapsed in the face of competition 
from cheaper rivals in the short- and medium-haul European market.
The German government has rejected the accusation and has said its support for Air Berlin did not breach antitrust 
rules.
A combined Lufthansa and Air Berlin would cement the German carrier’s dominant position in the country, taking 
Lufthansa’s total capacity share to more than 50 per cent, according to data from airline consultancy OAG based on 
summer 2017 schedules.
That would dwarf Ryanair’s 6.4 per cent share of the market, and easyJet’s 3 per cent. In the domestic German 
market, a combined Lufthansa-Air Berlin would have a share of more than 90 per cent. Lufthansa also controls 
Austrian Airlines and Swiss International Air Lines.
Aviation analysts have also seen the move as defensive by Lufthansa, designed to block other more competitive 
airlines from expanding. Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, says Air Berlin has long been a “shield” for Lufthansa, 
occupying territory and hindering the advance of the low-cost airlines into the German market. 
Air Berlin’s collapse has meant Lufthansa needs to move to secure this capacity, he says. 
Lufthansa has declared an interest in working with Air Berlin. The approach started last year when it agreed a deal 
for Air Berlin to operate 40 of its aircraft for Lufthansa’s subsidiary airlines.
Daniel Roeska, aviation analyst at Bernstein, says: “The news that Lufthansa is in talks to buy parts of Air Berlin 
feels like the culmination of a concentrated plan — first there was the wet lease deal, finalised in January this year, 
then the new CEO, Thomas Winkelmann was recruited from Lufthansa in February.” 
EasyJet is also involved in discussions to buy parts of the German carrier, say two people with knowledge of the 
talks. This has further angered Mr O’Leary, who said he has not been approached by Air Berlin or the German 
government. 
Jonathan Wober, aviation analyst at CAPA Centre for Aviation, says easyJet is likely to be a more preferable deal 
partner for Lufthansa than Ryanair. “EasyJet’s not as low-cost as Ryanair, and its average fares are not as low as 
Ryanair. From that point of view it would be preferable to Lufthansa. But at the end of the day it’s not Lufthansa that 
will decide.”
Ryanair has filed a complaint with German and EU competition authorities, but this is unlikely to get looked at until 
an actual deal takes place. 
“If there were an outright acquisition of Air Berlin by Lufthansa, that would be a matter for the EU competition 
authorities because of the turnovers of the companies involved,” said a spokesperson for Germany’s Federal Cartel 
Office. 
However, economic circumstances, such as the fact Air Berlin has gone bust, are likely to be a consideration in 
cartel deliberations, says one person close to the process. 
The German government has justified its intervention on the grounds of Air Berlin’s “ongoing and positive long-term 
discussion” with Lufthansa and another airline “to continue operations under different ownership”. 
Germany’s transport minister has also said he did not expect any deal to rescue Air Berlin involving Lufthansa to 
raise competition concerns. 
Air Berlin collapse threatens to clip rivals’ wings
Lufthansa said it was in a “negotiating period and cannot make further comment”.
But consumer groups are likely to watch closely to make sure a combined entity does not result in higher fares for 
airline passengers. 
“Any concentration or increase in monopoly power in future due to the demise of Air Berlin could lead to higher 
prices,” says Ingmar Streese, policy director at Verbraucherzentrale Bundesverband, a German consumer 
association. 
“We do have high competition in Europe generally. But if a deal leads to more concentration on specific routes then 
we would be concerned about that”.
Düsseldorf key in Air Berlin collapse
Düsseldorf’s old town, famous for its party scene, is known as “the longest bar in the world”. But the city’s airport is 
a good illustration of why the likely break-up of Air Berlin is being taken seriously by rival carriers.
Air Berlin is the biggest operator at Düsseldorf, offering destinations as far afield as Los Angeles. Lufthansa, and its 
low-cost subsidiary Eurowings, are the next biggest. The three airlines account for more than half of Düsseldorf’s 
passengers. 
Publicly, the airport supports the restructuring of Air Berlin. But should the airline’s plight result in slots becoming 
available, there will be no shortage of takers.
Should there be a straight transfer of Air Berlin routes to Lufthansa, the flag carrier would gain an enviable position 
in one of Germany’s wealthiest regions. More than 18m people live within 100 kilometres. Half-owned by the city 
council, it is the third-biggest airport in Germany after Frankfurt and Munich, with 23m passengers passing through 
in 2016. 
Expansion is difficult because the airport is close to residential areas, although it is trying to use its runways more 
flexibly and raise aircraft movements to 60 an hour from the current 47. 
“Düsseldorf is one of the five airports in Europe with the greatest excess demand for slots,” a spokesman said. “For 
decades, the airport co-ordinator has been unable to fulfil demand from airlines because of the lack of available 
capacity.” 
Load-Date: August 17, 2017
End of Document
Next suffers broker downgrade on failure to commit to ecommerce
Next suffers broker downgrade on failure to commit to ecommerce
 
FT.com
August 15, 2017 Tuesday 5:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 462 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Next was a faller on Tuesday after Berenberg predicted a “Kodak moment” for the retailer. 
“We believe Next is burdened by its overspaced store estate, which restricts its ability to invest in areas that matter 
most to the consumer — product and free home delivery, leading to market share erosion,” said Berenberg. “While 
it was quick to recognise the online opportunity, it has failed to fully adapt its business model, instead focusing on 
short-term cash flow and profitability.” 
Kodak’s bankruptcy in 2012 came after it held back from developing mass market digital cameras to protect its 
highly lucrative film business. 
Similarly, Next has been acting to protect the profitability of its stores rather than fully committing to ecommerce, 
said Berenberg. Offering free delivery “would bring short-term pain, but long-term survival”, it said.
Berenberg set a £36.50 price target on Next, which closed 2.8 per cent lower at £42.71.
Sterling was the tailwind for the wider market. The FTSE 100 closed up 0.4 per cent, rising 29.96 points to 
7,383.85, thanks largely to dollar earners such as British American Tobacco, up 1.3 per cent to £49.08, and Diageo, 
ahead 1.4 per cent to £25.36.
Airlines gained after Air Berlin said it had filed for insolvency. Ryanair hit a record high, up 3.4 per cent to €19.23, 
while British Airways owner IAG rose 2.9 per cent to 631p and Wizz Air took on 4.6 per cent to £29.32.
Next suffers broker downgrade on failure to commit to ecommerce
EasyJet, which is reportedly in the auction with Lufthansa to buy some of Air Berlin’s assets, climbed 4.5 per cent to 
£13.22. Tui, which recently called off talks to merge its German airline Tuifly with Air Berlin’s tourism operations, 
was up 2.2 per cent to £13.19. 
BAE Systems rose 2.3 per cent to 594p after Goldman Sachs added the defence contractor to its “conviction list” 
with a 750p target. The stock has slipped to a deeper-than-usual discount to US peers due to concerns about a 
slowdown in growth, which look misplaced given Saudi Arabia will probably order a fleet of Typhoon aircraft before 
the year end, Goldman said.
Shire took on 1.3 per cent to £38.43 on news that UK regulators had validated a marketing application for its 
Lifitegrast treatment for dry eye disease. Shire has targeted $1bn of US sales for Lifitegrast by 2020 but has not 
given guidance on other markets. 
Separately, SocGen repeated “buy” advice on Shire with a £75 target. Even if Shire destroys value with a planned 
neuroscience division spin-off, the current share price “is so low as to imply that the remaining (highly valuable) rare 
disease business is unsustainable,” said SocGen. “This is just irrational.”
Provident Financial lost 3.8 per cent to £18.82 as it drifted towards FTSE 100 relegation at the next index review, 
which will be decided on August 29 closing prices.
Load-Date: August 15, 2017
End of Document
Mini-breaks replace annual holiday, ONS study shows
Mini-breaks replace annual holiday, ONS study shows
 
FT.com
August 7, 2017 Monday 12:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 563 words
Byline: Gemma Tetlow, Economics Correspondent
Body
For many in Britain, holidays used to involve a couple of weeks with the family abroad and the occasional booze 
cruise.
However, new data from the Office for National Statistics reveal big changes to how Britons enjoy their holidays, 
with each UK resident making almost 50 per cent more foreign trips last year than they did in 1996 thanks to a 
surge in popularity for multiple shorter vacations and city mini-breaks.
The analysis shows the extent to which low-cost airlines have revolutionised the way Britons holiday, with budget 
flights on the likes of Ryanair and EasyJetmaking it possible for people to take several shorter trips overseas each 
year rather than just one.
“One of the most likely explanations for UK residents going on more, shorter, holidays is the growth of the budget 
airlines,” the ONS said.
In 1996, when the low-cost airline industry was still in its infancy, a fifth of the 27m foreign holidays taken by UK 
residents lasted for two weeks, with France a popular destination. By contrast, fortnight-long trips made up just one-
in-12 of the 45m foreign holidays that UK residents enjoyed last year.
In their place, shorter breaks — often to lesser-known European cities and up-and-coming destinations such as 
Iceland — lasting two to four days have boomed to make up nearly one-in-four trips last year, compared with one-
in-eight trips in 1996. 
Mini-breaks replace annual holiday, ONS study shows
Spain and France have remained the two most popular holiday destinations for Britons for the past 20 years. But, 
whereas the number of trips to Spain has nearly doubled since 1996, France is one of the few countries that has 
experienced a fall in popularity. UK residents made 9 per cent fewer trips to France last year than in 1996.
In the mid-1990s, place names such as the Croatian cities of Split and Dubrovnik evoked images of Balkans war 
dispatches, rather than beach holidays. Fewer than 13,000 trips were made to Croatia by UK residents in 1996. 
But, with the country having joined the EU in 2013, it has become a popular destination for British tourists, who 
made 395,000 trips to the country last year.
Two other destinations that have dramatically risen in popularity during the past 20 years are Iceland and Dubai. 
Iceland’s attractiveness has been boosted by a drop in the value of currency since the financial crisis, making it 
more affordable, while Dubai is popular due to its year-round warm climate.
Many more UK residents also now travel to Poland and Romania, with visits to those countries boosted by Polish 
and Romanian nationals living in the UK making trips back to their country of origin. Nearly 70 per cent of those 
visiting Romania for holiday last year were Romanian.
In contrast, several once popular majority Muslim countries have seen a sharp drop in UK visitor numbers. In 1996, 
UK residents made nearly 222,000 trips to Tunisia. But in the wake of the 2011 Arab Spring and continued unrest in 
north Africa, this dropped to only just over 2,000 visits last year. There has also been a significant fall in the number 
of people holidaying in Turkey and Egypt.
The ONS data also noted a marked decline in day trips abroad, reflecting the demise of the once popular “booze 
cruise” — when Brits would take their cars to France to stock up on cheap alcohol and tobacco. Duty free shopping 
within the EU was phased out in 1999 and France has been increasing the price of cigarettes since 2000.
Load-Date: August 10, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair chief warns of post-Brexit summer holiday chaos
Ryanair chief warns of post-Brexit summer holiday chaos
 
FT.com
August 2, 2017 Wednesday 3:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 476 words
Byline: Conor Sullivan
Body
British travellers face widescale cancellation of flights to popular summer holiday destinations unless the pace of 
negotiations over post-  Brexit rules on the operation of airlines quickens, according to the boss of Europe’s biggest 
low-cost airline.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of  Ryanair, warned that if no deal was struck by the end of next year, “we and 
other airlines will have to start cancelling flights or taking flights off sale” for summer 2019, depriving UK travellers of 
cheap summer holidays in Spain and Greece.
“The UK doesn’t have time to negotiate this . . . The discussions haven’t yet started,” Mr O’Leary said in a press 
conference following a “very good” meeting with Chris Grayling, the transport secretary.
Mr Grayling was increasingly aware of the need to conclude a deal before the end of 2018, said Mr O’Leary, but he 
did not share the minister’s view that such a deal would be straightforward and warned of complacency by the 
government and International Airlines Group, owner of British Airways.
The airline chief said a deal governing UK-EU air traffic needed to be in place by late 2018 ahead of formal Brexit 
since that is when airlines start scheduling and selling flights for the summer of 2019. Britain is due to leave the EU 
in March 2019. 
Mr O’Leary added that rival continental airlines were “opposed to the UK getting any favourable deal” and were 
“actively campaigning” for a deal in which Britain accepts EU regulations and court judgments. This would be 
Ryanair chief warns of post-Brexit summer holiday chaos
something that would be “almost unacceptable” to those that believe in a hard Brexit because they did not want to 
be seen to “bend the knee” to a European authority, he said.
Yet he said his warnings and lobbying were falling on deaf ears, adding: “The UK government doesn’t have a Plan 
B, other than we hope and trust a deal will get done by September 2018.”
The Ryanair boss warned that the UK’s negotiating tactics were at risk of relying too much on their perceptions of 
the self-interest of EU countries. “The European regional airports and the Spanish hotels and the Greek hotels will 
not suffer the kind of armageddon that many here in the UK believe will happen”, he said.
A government spokesperson said it was “committed to getting the right deal for Britain” and said it was “pursuing 
liberal access to European aviation markets”.
IAG said: “We’re confident that a comprehensive air transport agreement between the EU and the UK will be 
reached. It’s in Europe’s interest to have a fully liberalised aviation agreement.”
Mr O’Leary’s warning about UK-EU flights follows another from IAG chief Willie Walsh about EU rules on the 
ownership of airlines. Last month he pleadedfor the EU to overhaul its “arcane” airline ownership laws, which rivals 
and analysts warn could force IAG to buy out a quarter of its shareholders or risk being broken up after Brexit.
Load-Date: August 30, 2017
End of Document
Europe’s airport travellers face long security queues
Europe’s airport travellers face long security queues
 
FT.com
August 1, 2017 Tuesday 6:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 398 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London and Jim Brunsden in Brussels
Body
European holidaymakers jetting off to popular summer destinations are experiencing long queues at airports after 
the introduction of tighter security checks. 
Airline passengers have faced queues of up to four hours at European airports, including Palma de Mallorca, 
Madrid, Lisbon, Milan and Paris-Orly. 
The new security measures, which countries had six months to implement from April, mean people entering and 
leaving the Schengen area face enhanced checks. Border staff must now check passenger details against security 
databases. 
The delays coincide with some of the busiest travelling weeks for airports around  Europe. Some airports have seen 
flight delays jump 300 per cent compared with last year, according to Airlines for Europe, which represents a 
number of the region’s biggest airlines, including Ryanair and easyJet.
“There are major delays but we could see this get worse as not all countries have implemented the new security 
checks yet,” said Aage Dünhaupt of A4E. He blamed the problems on understaffed EU border controls. 
The European Commission said that the tougher security checks at airports were the result of EU member states 
asking Brussels to upgrade border checks.
National authorities have had two-and-a-half years to prepare since the measures were first set out by the 
commission in December 2015, a commission official said.
Europe’s airport travellers face long security queues
“More checks can lead to more delays and that is the price of security,” she said. “We cannot have on the one hand 
a joint request from member states to have more checks and controls to increase security, and at the same time 
have complaints about longer waiting periods,” she said. “One is the price of the other.”
Brussels said that it was the responsibility of national governments to make sure they had the personnel and other 
resources in place to cope with the requirements.
It added that “from a technical point of view” the checking of passengers against various EU security databases 
“should not actually have a major impact on the border traffic”, given that it was done “in parallel and at the same 
time as already required identity checks of EU citizens”. 
ABTA, the travel trade association, said passengers should factor longer queueing times into their travel plans. “It is 
also extremely important that border control check points are sufficiently resourced so that queueing times are kept 
to a minimum,” the group said. 
Load-Date: August 2, 2017
End of Document
Alitalia to favour bids for whole company
Alitalia to favour bids for whole company
 
FT.com
August 1, 2017 Tuesday 4:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 554 words
Byline: James Politi in Rome and Tanya Powley in London
Body
The Italian government is hoping to avoid the break-up of Alitalia by insisting it will give preference to bids for the 
entire company at the launch of the final stage of its sale out of bankruptcy.
On Tuesday, the state-appointed commissioners running the airline since it collapsed into administration in May set 
out the key conditions for tabling bids in the upcoming public tender. They specify offers for all of Alitalia, or 
separate bids for the airline operations, which includes maintenance, and for the group’s airport ground handling 
activities.
Such conditions are designed to prevent would-be buyers trying to carve off lucrative routes or valuable assets, 
such as key buildings owned by  Alitalia, from participating.
The conditions state that if two offers are equal, preference will be given to the one for the whole airline.
Alitalia has been run by three commissioners since it collapsed in May, bringing three years of investment by 
Etihad, the UAE carrier, to a bitter end.
During the past two months, the commissioners have sounded out the market, and have received non-binding 
offers from at least 10 carriers, including Ryanair, Etihad and easyJet. Based on the interest so far, there is growing 
confidence inside Alitalia of a successful auction process.
The fate of the airline, which has been beset with problems for decades, is being watched closely across the airline 
industry, particularly in Europe and the Middle East.
Alitalia to favour bids for whole company
The Italian government agreed to pump €600m in taxpayer funds into Alitalia to keep it afloat for six months, with 
the goal of selling the whole airline by the end of the year.
 Luigi Gubitosi, one of the commissioners, said in an emailed statement on Tuesday: “We think Alitalia has great 
untapped potential — and from the market interest, we aren’t the only ones.” He added: “This potential is even 
greater if the company remains whole.”
Alitalia’s financial troubles come from a combination of competition from low-cost carriers and its own high cost 
base. 
One of the big questions hanging over the sale is whether buyers — particularly for the whole carrier — will be 
willing to take on this legacy.
Andrew Lobbenberg, an aviation analyst at HSBC, said: “People coming in with fresh capital would want to see 
meaningful change. There’s no evidence of acceptance of that reality.”
But Mr Gubitosi, who has broad powers to transform the airline, said its financial position was already improving 
and revenues growing. 
All of Alitalia’s contracts were under review, including aircraft leasing contracts, he said. “Burdensome” fuel hedging 
contracts had been interrupted and labour costs cut through the laying-off of one-third of senior management.
The sale, managed by bankers at Rothschild, will be open to bidders of all nationalities and consortiums. 
Private equity firms and handling companies are also expected to participate. Binding offers are due in early 
October, followed by a period of negotiation with the leading bidders until November. Alitalia faces liquidation if it 
does not find a buyer for the whole company or its main components.
Chris Tarry, an aviation consultant, said: “I’m afraid there’s a great disappointment ahead. The brand is important in 
Italy and you can see how that brand can continue but you need a completely different approach to the operating 
model.” 
Load-Date: August 2, 2017
End of Document
IAG shrugs off power failure to soar to double-digit profit rise
IAG shrugs off power failure to soar to double-digit profit rise
 
FT.com
July 28, 2017 Friday 6:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 167 words
Byline: Paul McClean
Body
International Consolidated Airlines Group has shrugged off the effects of a huge power outage at British Airways to 
reveal a double-digit rise in profits, as low fuel costs and a strong Easter helped the FTSE 100 company.
IAG, which is the parent company of airlines including British Airways and Aer Lingus, said total revenue inched up 
0.9 per cent to €10.9bn in the six months to June 30, while operating profit rose 13.8 per cent to €898m.
Passenger revenue per available seat kilometre – a key industry metric – dipped 2.6 per cent to €6.50, while non-
fuel costs rose 3.5 per cent at a constant currency level, reflecting the effects of the power outage at BA.
Unlike rival airline Ryanair, IAG did not comment on the Brexit negotiations and the need to arrange a swift deal for 
aviation in its half year results. Analysts warn that IAG may be particularly affected by a hard Brexit, as it looks set 
to fall well below the EU’s minimum 50 per cent threshold for EU ownership after Brexit.
Photo: Reuters
Load-Date: July 28, 2017
End of Document
Branson gives up control of Virgin Atlantic in alliance rejig
Branson gives up control of Virgin Atlantic in alliance rejig
 
FT.com
July 27, 2017 Thursday 7:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 476 words
Byline: Michael Stothard in Paris and Tanya Powley in London
Body
Sir Richard Branson is giving up control of Virgin Atlantic, the airline he founded in 1984, as part of a wide-ranging 
shake-up of the industry that will see Air France-KLM, Delta Air Lines and China Eastern deepen their alliances. 
Air France-KLM will buy a 31 per cent stake in Virgin Atlantic from Sir Richard’s Virgin Group for around £220m, the 
companies said on Thursday. This will take Sir Richard’s stake in the airline from 51 per cent to 20 per cent. 
The far-reaching partnership deal also involves Delta and China Eastern each acquiring a 10 per cent stake in Air 
France-KLM at a 17 per cent discount to Thursday’s market price. In that transaction, AirFrance-KLM will raise 
€751m in new capital.
And Air France-KLM, Delta Air Lines and Virgin Atlantic said they have signed a provisional agreement to create a 
single global joint venture, as they try to fight back against low-cost competitors. The three companies promised to 
create "the most comprehensive transatlantic route network” in the world.
In an  open letter on Thursday, Sir Richard said that his airline would continue to fly under the Virgin brand. He also 
tweeted the quote: "No one can whistle a symphony. It takes a whole orchestra to play it.”
This flurry of activity comes as traditional transatlantic carriers are under increasing pressure from low-cost rivals 
such as Norwegian and WestJet, who have done for long-haul travel what Ryanair and EasyJet have done for 
short-haul in Europe.
Branson gives up control of Virgin Atlantic in alliance rejig
Virgin Atlantic, once a trailblazing carrier, has struggled. The group’s fortunes were rescued by its joint venture with 
Delta Air Lines, which took a 49 per cent stake in the company in 2012.
The group returned to profit in 2014. But it warned earlier this year that it was likely to go into the red again in 2017 
as the weaker pound pushed up costs and put off holiday-makers.
Air France-KLM is also battling with a high cost base compared to newer rivals. The company is trying to set up a 
new low-cost arm within Air France, but is facing union opposition.
Shai Weiss, chief commercial officer at Virgin Atlantic, told the FT that the deal was the next logical step for the 
airline, which also faces competition from the British Airways and American Airlines partnership. 
It means “we can get more customers to more places and more revenues”, he said, noting that the joint venture 
with Delta was going well but this would maximise its access to customers across Europe. "It's pure industrial logic," 
said Mr Weiss. 
Ed Bastian, the Delta chief executive, said that the joint venture would “deepen ties with our global partners to 
provide opportunities for mutual growth” while Air-France KLM said it would provide customers with “even more 
choice”.
The joint venture would include the sharing of facilities at airports as well as the ability to use frequent flyer miles 
across the three carriers.
Load-Date: August 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair : altitude sickness
Ryanair: altitude sickness
 
FT.com
July 24, 2017 Monday 2:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 361 words
Body
A recent study from the US suggests 3D-printed airline seat frames could cut their weight by as much as half. That 
is the equivalent of one passenger per short-haul flight. Maybe good news to some airlines but to Ryanair it remains 
science fiction. Europe’s leading low-cost carrier is well-practised in lightening its load. Monday’s first-quarter 
results underscored its cost advantage over many peers.
Ryanair reported better than expected revenues, and after tax profits of €397m beat analyst expectations by about 
8 per cent. Operating margin swelled by 6 percentage points to 24 per cent, its best for a first quarter. The market 
had expected a good result: the shares fell as much as 4 per cent on the day. But Ryanair’s typical Eeyore-ish 
outlook on airfares, a drop of 5 per cent in the first half and even more later in the year, does not fully explain the 
reaction. 
Frankly, Ryanair’s valuation already incorporates plenty of hope. On a price to forward earnings multiple of 15 
times, the Irish carrier trades not so far from its five-year highs. It is not alone. Valuations have risen for rivals such 
as easyJet and Lufthansa. Macro factors have played their part. A rise in the pound, which suits UK holiday makers, 
plus lower oil costs have boosted European airline shares this year. 
Yet just a bit of leaden gloom from Ryanair, and its competitors, on fares has caused the sector to sell off in recent 
days. Another reason may be that jet fuel prices have stopped descending and are up by 7 per cent year on year. 
This is the first time jet fuel has managed this during the summer since 2014. Meanwhile, capacity is growing 
inexorably. Ryanair aims to reduce unit costs by increasing passenger capacity. It has ordered an additional 10 new 
jets in June, adding to 183 aircraft already on order. Its fleet will rise by three-quarters by 2024. 
Ryanair : altitude sickness
For Ryanair, the airline business is about putting bottoms on seats. As the valuation soars, it appears shareholders 
are sitting far from comfortably in theirs.
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Do you think Ryanair is overvalued? Please tell us what 
you think in the comments section below.
Load-Date: July 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair bids for Alitalia ahead of tender launch
Ryanair bids for Alitalia ahead of tender launch
 
FT.com
July 24, 2017 Monday 8:11 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 557 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London and James Politi in Rome
Body
Ryanair is one of several airlines to have made a bid for Alitalia ahead of the launch of a full-scale tender process 
for the lossmaking Italian carrier in the coming weeks. 
Europe’s biggest low-cost airline on Monday confirmed it had submitted a non-binding offer for Alitalia, which 
collapsed into administration on May 2 after its employees voted to reject a restructuring plan involving salary 
reductions and lay-offs. 
Neil Sorahan, chief financial officer at Ryanair, refused to outline the details of its offer but said the Irish airline felt it 
was right to be involved in the bidding process. 
Ryanair’s chief executive, Michael O’Leary, has previously said it was only interested in pursuing Alitalia if it was 
restructured by its commissioners. 
“We’re the largest carrier in Italy . . . so we’re very serious about anything to do with Italy,” said Mr Sorahan. Etihad, 
which has a large stake in Alitalia, and easyJet have also made non-binding bids, according to people close to the 
process. 
Ryanair’s interest in Alitalia comes as the bidding process for the Italian airline is in its early stages, with final offers 
not expected before the end of October.
In recent weeks, bankers at Rothschild advising Alitalia have opened up their data to prospective buyers mainly to 
gauge what kind of deal was possible, whether a full or piecemeal sale. 
Ryanair bids for Alitalia ahead of tender launch
But it will not be until after Alitalia’s three commissioners produce the tender for the sale process in the coming 
weeks that the auction will get into full swing. 
Any entity, including those that did not make a non-binding offer in the first round, can jump in with offers in the final 
stage, one person familiar with the matter said.
Although the Italian government has ruled out nationalisation after ploughing in €600m this year to keep Alitalia 
afloat, it may decide to keep a stake in the airline, depending on the outcome of the sale process. 
Ryanair’s bid comes as it became the latest European  airline to warn about a tough outlook, noting that fares will 
remain under pressure for the rest of the year despite reporting a jump in first-quarter profits. 
Europe’s biggest low-cost airline on Monday reported a 55 per cent profit rise to €397m in the three months to June 
30, up from €256m a year ago, beating consensus forecasts of €366m. Revenues rose 13 per cent to €1.91bn.
Shares in the budget airline slipped 3.6 per cent to €17.48.
Ryanair said the increase in profit was largely down to the late Easter in April and cautioned that airline ticket prices 
would be “very competitive” for the rest of the year because of overcapacity in the market, which was pushing down 
fares.
The Irish carrier’s comments come a week after both easyJet and Lufthansa warned about the outlook for airline 
fares, despite both upgrading their full-year profit forecasts after a strong Easter. 
“The results followed an increasingly familiar pattern from European airlines of a strong performance well ahead of 
consensus on Easter, combined with continued caution on the unit revenue outlook for the remainder of the year,” 
said Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum. 
While average fares rose 1 per cent in the first quarter, Ryanair said it expected them to fall 5 per cent over the first 
half of the year and 8 per cent in the second half.
It kept its profit guidance at €1.4bn to €1.45bn for the full year. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair still cautious despite 55% leap in profits
Ryanair still cautious despite 55% leap in profits
 
FT.com
July 24, 2017 Monday 6:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 254 words
Byline: Katie Martin
Body
Ryanair is trying not to get shareholders over-excited.
In its results for the quarter ending in June, the airline said post-profits were up by some 55 per cent on the same 
period last year, reaching €397m (or €443.7m on a pre-tax basis).
Happy days?
CEO Michael O’Leary points out:
We… caution that the outcome is distorted by the absence of Easter in the prior year Q1. While Q1 average 
fares rose by 1% to just over €40, this was due to a strong April (boosted by Easter) offset by adverse sterling, 
lower bag revenue as more customers switch to our 2 free carry-on bag policy, and yield stimulation following a 
series of security events in Manchester and London.
There is no change to the company’s full-year guidance.
 Once again, it warned on the impact of the UK’s exit from the European Union:
While we continue to campaign for the UK to remain in the EU Open Skies agreement, we caution that should 
the UK leave, there may not be sufficient time, or goodwill on both sides, to negotiate a timely replacement 
bilateral which could result in a disruption of flights between the UK and Europe for a period of time from April 
’19 onwards. We, like all airlines, seek clarity on this issue before we publish our summer 2019 schedule in the 
second quarter of 2018. If we do not have certainty about the legal basis for the operation of flights between 
Ryanair still cautious despite 55% leap in profits
the UK and the EU by autumn 2018, we may be forced to cancel flights and move some, or all, of our UK 
based aircraft to Continental Europe from April ’19 onwards.
(Image: Reuters)
Load-Date: July 24, 2017
End of Document
Fast Europe Open: Eurozone PMI, Ryanair earnings
Fast Europe Open: Eurozone PMI, Ryanair earnings
 
FT.com
July 24, 2017 Monday 5:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 275 words
Byline: Alice Woodhouse
Body
Stronger growth in Europe, Japan and China is  expected to offset slower-than-expected US output on uncertainty 
over Donald Trump’s stalled fiscal promises, according to the International Monetary Fund.
The IMF has revised down its growth forecast for the US economy to 2.1 per cent in 2017 from 2.3 per cent on “the 
assumption that fiscal policy will be less expansionary than previously assumed, given the uncertainty about the 
timing and nature of U.S. fiscal policy changes”. The body also lowered its outlook for growth in 2018 to 2.1 per cent 
from 2.5 per cent.
The forecast for global output growth was unchanged at 3.5 percent in 2017 and 3.6 per cent in 2018. Stronger 
domestic demand in eurozone countries helped to lift IMF’s growth projections for France, Germany, Italy and 
Spain. The 2017 growth outlook for China was also revised up by 0.1 percentage points on stronger than expected 
growth in the first quarter.
Markets in Asia were mixed on Monday as investors awaited further clues from the US Federal Reserve’s policy 
meeting later this week. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng was up 0.5 per cent while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 was off 0.7 
per cent. Japan’s Topix index was down 0.8 per cent.
Futures tip the FTSE 100 to open 0.2 per cent lower, while the S&P 500 is set to open down 0.1 per cent.
The corporate calendar for Monday includes updates from Petra Diamonds, Reckitt Benckiser, Ascential Group and 
Ryanair. The economic calendar offers a wealth of insight from purchasing managers .
•
08.00: France July preliminary manufacturing purchasing managers’ index
Fast Europe Open: Eurozone PMI, Ryanair earnings
•
08.30 Germany July preliminary manufacturing PMI
•
09.00: Eurozone July preliminary PMI
 
Load-Date: July 24, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet retreats as Ryanair warns of price war
EasyJet retreats as Ryanair warns of price war
 
FT.com
July 24, 2017 Monday 5:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 454 words
Byline: Stephen Smith
Body
EasyJet was caught in the chill winds of Ryanair’s warning of a late-summer price war among Europe’s short-haul 
carriers with shares sliding across the sector. 
Airline declines — including those of British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines — helped to push  
UK stocks to their worst performance in more than a month as investors were cowed by Ryanair’s claims that prices 
could fall by as much as 9 per cent in the second half of the year.
“Ryanair has delivered a wake-up call to the industry,” said Ken Odeluga, of City Index. “It is signalling that the 
coruscating pricing environment will have deeper consequences and last longer than the market may be factoring 
in.”
EasyJet retreated 2.8 per cent to £12.75, piling on the woes from last Thursday’s badly received third-quarter 
results that saw the shares slide nearly 6 per cent, as upgrades to full-year guidance were overshadowed by 
caution on excess capacity.
But Cantor Fitzgerald’s Robin Byde described the sell-off as “natural profit-taking following two quarters of strong 
outperformance”, adding: “we think risks are still on the upside”.
“EasyJet’s fundamentals are sound and demand for leisure travel across Europe remains buoyant. It has now 
secured an air operator certificate in Austria to offset some of the risks of Brexit,” he added, reiterating “buy” advice 
and a new target price of £16.
EasyJet retreats as Ryanair warns of price war
IAG pared early losses of above 2 per cent to close down 0.8 per cent at 585.5p while Ryanair fell 1.1 per cent to 
€17.85.
The losses in Dublin were despite Europe’s biggest low-cost airline reporting a 55 per cent profit rise — pricing 
worries adding to falling bag revenue, adverse sterling impacts and fears over Brexit. 
But Ryanair shares have gained more than 24 per cent year-to-date, said Ipek Ozkardeskaya at LCG, noting that a 
Bloomberg survey had found 76 per cent of analysts were long on the stock. 
The FTSE 100 fell 1 per cent, off 75.18 points, to 7,377.73, disappointing hopes of a push above Friday’s one-
month highs. “The FTSE has been hit by news of a 0.3 per cent downgrade to the IMF forecast for UK GDP growth 
this year,” added David Cheetham at XTB.
Reckitt Benckiser led the blue-chip decliners as USB analyst Pinar Ergun described second-quarter results as 
“disappointing for a company like RB” with sales weighed by a cyber attack last month. Its shares sank 3.3 per cent 
to £76.23.
ITV fell 1 per cent to 175.5p despite Liberum lauding the success of its youth demographic hit Love Island. 
“The show also offers good international content revenue opportunities and may allay some of the concerns over 
whether ITV’s content acquisition strategy is working,” analyst Ian Whittaker said, recommending “buy” at a 320p 
target price. 
Load-Date: July 25, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: Reckitt’s outlook less bright despite yellow mustard deal; Ryanair ’s caution
Opening Quote: Reckitt’s outlook less bright despite yellow mustard deal; 
Ryanair’s caution
 
FT.com
July 24, 2017 Monday 7:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 723 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Reckitt Benckiser, the consumer goods group, has already pulled off the corporate coup of the year – making this 
morning’s half-year results seem rather bland. Last week, it sold its food business to McCormick of the US for 
£3.2bn – some 50 per cent more than expected.
That is, in effect, a £1bn-plus premium for a huge vat of French’s Mustard: a foodstuff marketed not on taste, but on 
its unnatural, unearthly yellowness, and its ability to mask the taste of a hot-dog sausage that has been sweating 
just above room temperature in an out-of-town multiplex for a period of days. One analyst at Morningstar, who had 
evidently experienced watery smears of French’s mustard in just these circumstances said: “The price tag of £3.2bn 
is staggering… [it] must, in our opinion, be the result of a competitive bidding process.” Rival Unilever had been 
close to making a bid but decided to walk away, according to people familiar with the situation – evidence of taste 
and judgment for which it deserves credit.
Reckitt then earned further plaudits by saying it will use the proceeds to reduce its net debt from a peak of 3.9 times 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, to 3 times by end of the 2018 financial year – allowing it 
to focus on integrating its recently acquired Mead Johnson infant formula business.
This morning, it referred to this “portfolio transformation” – which made for better reading than like-for-like revenues 
down 1 per cent, due to previously flagged problems with Scholl, Korea, Indian sales tax and a significant cyber-
attack.
Opening Quote: Reckitt’s outlook less bright despite yellow mustard deal; Ryanair ’s caution
Its full-year net revenue target for its base business has now been adjusted to +2 per cent – from +3 per cent – 
again, as previously flagged. However, it added that this would prove “a challenging target” because of tough 
market conditions, and work to address “the full implications of the recent cyber-attack”.
For Mead Johnson Nutrition, Reckitt is targeting -2 per cent to flat like-for-like revenue growth in the second half.
Overall, the group reported a 16 per cent rise in adjusted profits in the half year, to £1.19bn, when measured at 
actual exchange rates. This was closer to 1 per cent at constant exchange rates.
Rakesh Kapoor, Chief Executive Officer, said:
In the first half of the year, we have made significant progress on portfolio transformation and becoming a more 
focused consumer health and hygiene business, with both the acquisition of Mead Johnson Nutrition, and the 
agreed sale of our Food business… From an operational perspective, as expected we had a tough first half, 
with challenging conditions exacerbated by a sophisticated cyber-attack. Notwithstanding this, the business 
remains strong and our earnings model intact.
Low-cost airline Ryanair used to measure its success in terms of PR coups – or, at least, the breezy bravado with 
which it could wind up rival easyJet. This morning’s quarterly update, however, focuses on two more conventional 
measures: profit and caution.
Its results for the quarter ending on June 30 showed customer numbers were up 12 per cent year-on-year to 35 
million, revenue was up 13 per cent to €1,910, and post-tax profit was up 55 per cent to €397m.
But despite reporting that its “Always Getting Better” programme had delivered a record 96 per cent load factor, 
chief executive Michael O’Leary preferred to “caution that the outcome is distorted by the absence of Easter in the 
prior year Q1″.
He said:
While Q1 average fares rose by 1% to just over €40, this was due to a strong April (boosted by Easter) offset 
by adverse sterling, lower bag revenue as more customers switch to our 2 free carry-on bag policy, and yield 
stimulation following a series of security events in Manchester and London.
He made no change to the company’s full-year guidance.
But he did stir up the Brexit debate  again, warning of a risk that the UK’s negotiators with the European Union 
might fail to agree a replacement for the EU Open Skies agreement – leading to disruption of flights between the 
UK and Europe from April 2019 onwards.
Ryanair has hinted that it may be less affected if it can be classed as an EU owned and controlled operator.
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for 
the full newsletter here.
For the latest Lombard column commentary,  click here.
 
Load-Date: July 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair shares fall on cautious trading update
Ryanair shares fall on cautious trading update
 
FT.com
July 24, 2017 Monday 7:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 132 words
Byline: Paul McClean
Body
Shares in Ryanair are slipping after the  budget airline warned of falling bag revenue, adverse sterling impacts and 
fears over Brexit – despite posting a 55 per cent leap in profits.
At pixel time shares in the budget carrier were down 3.6 per cent at €17.48.
Ryanair’s chief financial officer, Neil Sorahan, told Reuters the group had also submitted a non-binding bid for 
struggling Italian carrier Alitalia.
Ryanair has long been a vocal critic of Brexit, and reiterated its fears that a failure to strike an EU-UK deal in 2019 
could result in flights being grounded.
The cautious update also hit shares in Ryanair’s rivals. Easyjet and International Consolidated Airlines – the owner 
of British Airways – were the two worst fallers on the FTSE 100, down 3.1 per cent and 2.9 per cent respectively.
Load-Date: July 24, 2017
End of Document
Permira buys 10% stake in Klarna for $250m
Permira buys 10% stake in Klarna for $250m
 
FT.com
July 21, 2017 Friday 5:49 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 243 words
Byline: Javier Espinoza
Body
The private equity group behind the buyouts of Hugo Boss and New Look has bought a 10 per cent stake in Klarna, 
Sweden’s fintech leader, worth roughly $250m, two people familiar with the deal said.
The transaction, which is expected to be announced later today, represents the first time Permira enters the fintech 
sector, a person said, as the buyout group looks to enter a promising sector.
Niklas Adalberth, shareholder and founder of the Swedish online payment company, also sold some shares, a 
person familiar with the sale said.
As part of the deal, General Atlantic and DST Global have sold their stakes in one of Europe’s banks which was 
valued at $2.25bn in a fundraising in 2015, the people said.
The deals comes after Ingenico Group bought rival Bambora, the Swedish payment-services company, for an 
enterprise value of €1.5bn.
Already Brightfolk, a company held by Anders Holch Povlsen – owner of one of Europe’s leading fashion 
companies, acquired a ‘significant’ stake in the company.
Visa also bough an undisclosed amount of shares in the bank last month.
Klarna is one of Europe’s fastest growing online payments companies, serving 60 million consumers and 70,000 
retailers.
Permira buys 10% stake in Klarna for $250m
Founded in 2005 by three friends, Klarna has said it wants to become the Ryanair-type low-cost sector disruptor as 
it takes market share from other more established lenders.
The company has already captured a large part of the online payments market in the Nordics and Germany.
Load-Date: July 21, 2017
End of Document
Permira buys 10% stake in Swedish fintech group Klarna
Permira buys 10% stake in Swedish fintech group Klarna
 
FT.com
July 21, 2017 Friday 7:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 277 words
Byline: Javier Espinoza in London
Body
Permira, the  private equity group behind the buyouts of Hugo Boss and New Look, has bought a 10 per cent stake 
in leading Swedish fintech group Klarna for approximately $250m, according to two people familiar with the matter.
The transaction, expected to be announced on Friday, represents the first time Permira has entered the fintech 
sector, one of the people said.
Niklas Adalberth, one of the Swedish online payment company’s co-founders, also sold some shares, a person 
familiar with the sale said. 
As part of the deal, General Atlantic and DST Global have sold their stakes in Klarna, which was last valued at 
$2.25bn in a 2015 fundraising, the people said.
The deal comes after French payments specialist Ingenico Group on Thursday bought Swedish rival Bambora for 
an enterprise value of €1.5bn, in one of the largest deals of its kind. 
Brightfolk, a company held by fashion tycoon Anders Holch Povlsen — the largest shareholder in UK online retailer 
Asos — this month acquired a “significant” stake in Klarna, while Visa also bought an undisclosed amount of shares 
in Klarna last month.
Klarna is one of Europe’s fastest growing online payments companies, serving 60m consumers and 70,000 
retailers. Last month it became the largest European fintech company to receive a banking licence.
Permira buys 10% stake in Swedish fintech group Klarna
Founded in 2005 by three friends, the company has said it wants to become the Ryanair of banking — that is, low 
cost — as it takes market share from more established players. 
The company has already captured a large part of the online payments market in the Nordic countries and 
Germany, allowing customers to buy goods online quickly and pay for them only on delivery.
Load-Date: July 23, 2017
End of Document
Investors Chronicle: ITV, British Land, Dairy Crest
Investors Chronicle: ITV, British Land, Dairy Crest
 
FT.com
July 21, 2017 Friday 4:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1721 words
Byline: Investors Chronicle reporters
Body
Buy: ITV (ITV)
Although takeover speculation has been somewhat allayed following the appointment of easyJet chief Carolyn 
McCall, we think ITV’s shares look undervalued, writes Megan Boxall.
Ms McCall’s biography on the easyJet investor page proudly announces that under her tenure the airline has 
reached the landmark of carrying 70m passengers annually. ITV’s shareholders will no doubt hope she can obtain 
similar customer numbers in her new role. She will take over Britain’s biggest commercial broadcaster following 
Adam Crozier’s departure in June.
The change at the top comes at a time of rising pressure in the media world. Demand for advertising space — at 
one time ITV’s biggest revenue contributor — has plummeted in recent years as companies turn increasingly to 
online ad platforms such as Google and Facebook. Mr Crozier has done his bit to leave the company in good shape 
in this time of uncertainty. 
During the past few years he has dramatically reduced the company’s reliance on TV advertising by bulking up its 
portfolio of production companies and investing in the online ITV Hub.
But still the future looks uncertain. In May, ITV predictedthat net advertising revenue in the first half — the financial 
results of which are due to be announced next week — could fall by 9 per cent. Broker Numis expects 2017 pre-tax 
Investors Chronicle: ITV, British Land, Dairy Crest
profits to drop 5 per cent to £805m due to that decline and the investment demands of running multiple production 
companies. 
But Ms McCall is no stranger to corporate challenges. Her first six months as the boss of easyJet saw airlines 
grounded due to a volcanic ash cloud, a massive spike in the oil price and an airline traffic controller strike. Today, 
with a market capitalisation of £5.7bn, easyJet is £4.1bn larger than when she joined in 2010.
Once disparagingly described as “a media luvvie” by Michael O’Leary, the boss of budget airline rival Ryanair, Ms 
McColl’s experience atop a major UK media company seems to have served her well in obtaining the ITV role. 
Before joining easyJet she was chief executive at the Guardian Media Group and pioneered the paper’s major 
rebranding in 2005. Her experience within the FTSE 100 is also enviable, having held a position on the board of 
Lloyds, New Look and Tesco.
Buy: British Land (BLND)
Demand for quality space is holding up a lot better than many expected, and the extent of the discount now looks 
hard to justify, writes Jonas Crosland.
British Land plans to spend up to £300m buying backits own shares, in a move indicating management frustration 
with the deep discount to net asset value that the shares currently show. The buyback is also the result of continued 
strong demand in the investment market that has made it more difficult to acquire assets offering an attractive 
return.
However, that strength has made it highly lucrative to dispose of certain assets. Since its full-year results were 
announced in May, British Land has sold its share of the Leadenhall Building for £575m, while other disposals 
raised £135m, and there are further assets under offer valued at £88m. During the three months to the end of June 
continued strong demand meant completed lettings and renewals reached a total 370,000 sq ft, 7.8 per cent ahead 
of estimated rental value. A further 870,000 sq ft is under offer. That included 310,000 sq ft of office space at 1 
Triton Square, which the company will be committing £200m to develop. However, despite this and the share 
buyback, the disposal programme means there will not be any material change in the loan-to-value ratio.
British Land owns or manages assets valued at more than £19bn, which are split almost evenly between regional 
and local multi-let retail assets, and office space in central London as well as a 46-acre plot at Canada Water. The 
discount to net asset value reflects concerns that the central London office market could suffer as a result of the UK 
leaving the EU on unfavourable terms.
Buy: Dairy Crest (DCG)
At the last set of full-year results, management discussed its investment in whey protein and researching uses of 
galacto-oligosaccharide, a prebiotic, and there is optimistic about growth in these areas.
Dairy Crest stated ahead of its annual general meeting that it is on its way to meeting its full-year expectations. 
Combined sales volumes of the company’s four key brands — Cathedral City, Clover, Frylight, and Country Life — 
are 7 per cent ahead of the same time last year. This was driven mainly by a good period for cheddar cheese brand 
Cathedral City, where volumes are up 15 per cent on last year.
However, the update was not entirely smooth. Cream prices have increased “substantially” during the first quarter, 
which has put pressure on margins in the butter business, since cream is a major input cost. The company has cut 
back on promotional activity for its butter brand Country Life in an effort to alleviate some of the margin pressure, 
although this is impacting volumes.
Chief executive Mark Allen reassured shareholders that despite the pressure on butter input costs the strong 
performance of the cheese business means that expectations for the year have remained steady. He added that the 
functional ingredients business has continued to grow and that they have added new customers, although 
contributions to profits from this area of the business will be weighted to the second half.
Investors Chronicle: ITV, British Land, Dairy Crest
Shares rose following Mr Allen’s soothing words to shareholders, sufficient to keep them confident in the business.
Chris Dillow: The risks of gilts
How worried should we be about a possible sell-off of gilts? It’s easy to tell stories of how this might happen. 
Reversing quantitative easing and rising interest rates in the US (and possibly the UK) might upset the market, as 
might looser fiscal policy here. And it’s possible that in both the UK and US tighter labour markets will eventually 
raise inflation: just because something hasn’t happened so far doesn’t mean it won’t happen.
Let’s take a different perspective and look at the numbers on gilt risk.
Since 1990 the standard deviation of total returns on gilts has been 1.8 percentage points per month, with average 
returns being 0.6 per cent per month. This implies that we face around a one-in-six chance of losing 1.2 per cent or 
more in a month or of seeing some kind of loss over 12 months. It also means there’s about a 2.2 per cent chance 
of losing 3 per cent or more in a month.
There are, though, two complications here. One is that gilt returns aren’t exactly distributed normally. Instead (as 
with other assets such as shares and commodities) there is a higher chance of big losses. If gilt returns are 
distributed as a cubic power law for large moves, there’s around a 0.7 per cent chance of losing 5 per cent or more 
in a single month. (5 per cent is in fact the worst monthly loss since 1990).
Secondly, the standard deviation since 1990 might understate gilt risk. Volatility was very low in the mid-2000s, but 
has been trending upwards since then. A big reason for this is that as yields fall, prices become more sensitive to 
given changes in yield.
This suggests we can’t exclude the possibility of significant losses on gilts simply as a statistical fact.
Nobody, however, should own gilts alone. Instead, they are part of a balanced portfolio. Which poses the question: 
could losses on gilts be offset by profits on other assets, in which case they are not so risky after all?
A quick glance at the historic numbers suggests so. Since 1990, the correlation between monthly returns on gilts 
and on the All-Share index has been 0.16, and the correlation between gilts and gold (in sterling terms) has been 
0.05. These numbers imply that there’s almost a 50:50 chance that a loss on gilts will be accompanied by a rise in 
shares or in gold.
But this also means there’s a slightly greater than a 50:50 chance of us losing on two assets at once.
What matters is why gilts sell off. If they do so because investors become more willing to take risk or more 
optimistic about economic growth (two things that are hard to distinguish), then losses on gilts would very likely be 
offset by gains on shares. Similarly, if gilts fall because of fears of worldwide inflation, it’s possible (but by no means 
certain) that their losses would be accompanied by profits on gold.
But there’s another possibility. A gilt sell-off could be triggered by a decline in global liquidity. One way in which this 
could happen would be if we see a big reversal of QE and significant portfolio rebalancing effects: if investors need 
to buy gilts from the Bank of England or Treasuries from the Fed, they might — at the margin — sell equities to do 
so.
Personally, I suspect this is a low risk. Something else, though, does trouble me. It’s that correlations between gilts 
and both equities and gold have been rising recently. This tells us that shocks that cause gilts to move in the same 
direction as either have become more common since the mid-2000s.
In the case of gold, this could be because changes in inflation expectations have been quite small while moves in 
real interest rates have been significant: changing views on inflation would cause gilts and gold to move in opposite 
directions, but changes in real interest rates would cause them to move in the same direction.
Investors Chronicle: ITV, British Land, Dairy Crest
In the case of equities, it might be because changing attitudes to liquidity have been more significant than changes 
in appetite for risk.
Whatever the reason, though, the implication is the same. There is a significant danger that losses on gilts will 
indeed be accompanied by losses on other assets.
There are two general messages here. One is that we shouldn’t take simple historic numbers on volatility and 
correlations at face value. Both change over time, so such numbers might understate future risk.
Secondly, all this is yet another reason to hold cash, despite negative real interest rates (for now). One of its virtues 
is that it protects us from correlation risk — the danger that asset prices will fall at the same time. This danger might 
be small, but it is sufficiently nasty for us to guard against.
Chris Dillow is an economics commentator for Investors Chronicle
The Financial Times and its journalism, including Investors Chronicle content, are subject to a self-regulation 
regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice:  FT.com/editorialcode
Load-Date: July 26, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet warns of tough market from rising competition
EasyJet warns of tough market from rising competition
 
FT.com
July 20, 2017 Thursday 12:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 515 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet has lowered expectations of a fast turnround in the European airline industry after it warned the market 
would remain tough because of increased competition that was pushing down fares.
Europe’s second-biggest low-cost carrier on Thursday lifted its full-year profit forecast to a range of £380m to 
£420m, above the current analyst consensus of £375m, after reporting a strong third quarter. 
But shares in easyJet fell by almost 5 per cent after the airline said it expected revenue per seat — a measure of 
fares — to fall by 2 per cent in the six months to September. It added that pressure on yields was also likely to 
extend into the next financial year.
The low-cost airline’s comments come days after German flag carrier Lufthansa voiced similar concerns over the 
pricing outlook, despite also upgrading its profit forecast.
Dame Carolyn McCall, who will leave easyJet at the end of the year to head up UK broadcaster ITV, said there has 
been a lot of additional capacity in Spain and Portugal this summer. 
“We’re not saying it is getting worse. The capacity environment is better but there is still growth and the reason for 
that growth in capacity is that fuel remains low. We’re simply saying pricing is not going to bounce back to plus-this 
or plus-that,” she said. 
The cautionary outlook from the UK’s biggest low-cost airline had a knock-on effect on its European rivals, with 
shares in Ryanair, IAG and Lufthansa also falling on Thursday morning. 
EasyJet warns of tough market from rising competition
Analysts said it would dampen expectations of a fast turnround in the European airline industry, which has been 
struggling with a glut of new capacity that is pushing down fares as well as the effect of the terror attacks in the EU 
and Brexit. 
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said there was a sense that expectations had “run away somewhat — and the 
share price moves you are seeing now is that expectation starting to unwind”.
While easyJet remained cautious about the outlook, the low-cost airline beat city estimates in its third-quarter 
trading. The airline said total revenue per seat increased by 2.2 per cent at constant currency, an improvement to 
its previous guidance for a low single-digit decline. 
Passenger numbers increased by 10.8 per cent to 22.3m in the three months to June 30, while revenues rose by 16 
per cent to £1.387bn. EasyJet’s performance was helped by the late timing of Easter in April this year. 
It comes after a tough period for the low-cost carrier, which in May unveiled its biggest interim loss in six years, 
while profits in 2016 were down 28 per cent. 
“Although we expect capacity to continue to put pressure on yields, our progress this year has enabled us to 
upgrade this year’s PBT forecast and demonstrates that after a difficult 18 months of external challenges easyJet 
once again has positive momentum,” said Dame McCall. 
EasyJet also confirmed it had been awarded its European Air Operating Certificate in Austria, which it had 
announced last week. This will enable it to continue flying within Europe post-Brexit. Its first flight under its new 
operating licence took place on Thursday. 
Load-Date: July 20, 2017
End of Document
Airline stocks slide after easyJet warns revenue per seat will fall
Airline stocks slide after easyJet warns revenue per seat will fall
 
FT.com
July 20, 2017 Thursday 8:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 228 words
Byline: Paul McClean
Body
European airline stocks are falling after easyJet said it expects its revenue per seat to decline by 2 per cent in the 
next six months, reflecting increased competition and discounting over the summer months.
EasyJet is down 4 per cent at £13.60, despite  raising its profit forecast and posting a 16 per cent jump in revenues 
to £1.4bn earlier this morning. It said it expects its revenue per seat – a key industry metric – to fall in the six 
months to September, reflecting “continuing high market growth… in key summer holiday markets such as Spain 
and Portugal.”
Ryanair is down 2.2 per cent at €18.32, and IAG, parent company of British Airways, is down 2 per cent at £6.06. 
Lufthansa is the biggest faller on Germany’s Dax, down 4.1 per cent at €20.
Nicholas Hyett, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said the headline numbers were strong, but its forecasts 
for the summer raised questions. “The problem is that easyJet is struggling to get its new passengers to pay the 
same as the old ones did,” he said. “Despite an improvement in Q3, the group still expects revenue per seat to 
decline by 2% across the second half as a whole and that suggests that the key summer period has been seeing 
some significant discounting.”
He also warned that while easyJet’s profitability is being “supported” by the slide in fuel prices, “there’s no 
guarantee fuel will stay cheap.”
Airline stocks slide after easyJet warns revenue per seat will fall
Load-Date: July 20, 2017
End of Document
Ashtead climbs in wake of United Rentals boost
Ashtead climbs in wake of United Rentals boost
 
FT.com
July 20, 2017 Thursday 5:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 463 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Ashtead led the FTSE 100 higher on Thursday after results from its closest peer bolstered hopes that industry 
pricing power is improving.
United Rentals, the world’s largest equipment rental provider, raised its full-year guidance after both utilisation rates 
and rental revenue improved over the second quarter. 
A tighter US hire market, in combination with recent  sector consolidation, should help Ashtead’s Sunbelt business 
squeeze prices higher, analysts said.
“Ashtead has consistently outperformed United over the last three years so in terms of what United can directly tell 
us about what Ashtead might report in its first-quarter results in September, these results probably tell us very little,” 
said Barclays.
“However, United has at times been a big short-term sentiment driver of Ashtead’s share price so, in that context, 
the comments on improving rate trends should be well received.”
Ashtead closed 3.1 per cent higher at £17.10 as a broad-based rally lifted the FTSE 100 by 0.8 per cent, or 56.96 
points, to 7,487.87.
WPP rose 2.1 per cent to £15.92 after Unilever said it would reverse a first-half cut to advertising budgets. 
Ashtead climbs in wake of United Rentals boost
“Unilever is WPP’s second-biggest client and its weakness in ad spending is likely to have been a factor on the drag 
in WPP’s first-half performance,” said Liberum. 
“It suggests that Unilever is still committed to advertising spending, thus reducing some of the structural concerns 
prevalent recently.”
EasyJet slipped 5.9 per cent to £13.34 after caution on excess capacity overshadowed third-quarter results from the 
airline, which came with an upgrade to full-year guidance that had already been baked into market expectations. 
In sympathy, Ryanair fell 3.5 per cent to €18.15. 
Short-covering helped Sports Direct jump 11.4 per cent to 335.1p after promising results from recently refurbished 
stores encouraged it to set 2018 guidance well above market expectations. 
The retailer targeted 10 per cent ebitda growth for the year ending March rather than the 10 per cent decline 
expected by analysts. 
Nearly 25 per cent of Sports Direct’s free float is on loan to short sellers, the highest since 2008, Markit data show. 
Sector peers edged higher after UK data showed retail sales accelerating in June, led by clothing and furniture. 
Dixons Carphone rose 2.5 per cent to 270.2p, Next added 2.8 per cent to £37.83 and Kingfisher was up 2.4 per 
cent to 304.2p.
Sophos, the security software maker, took on 3.2 per cent to 469.3p. 
Morgan Stanley raised its target to 550p as part of a review of the software-as-a-service sector, where the high cost 
of customer acquisition means renewal margins are obscured by fast growth rates. 
Margins at Sophos can jump from 7 per cent this year to 27 per cent once growth moderates, Morgan Stanley 
forecast. 
Load-Date: July 21, 2017
End of Document
UK retailers charging high card fees hit by clampdown
UK retailers charging high card fees hit by clampdown
 
FT.com
July 19, 2017 Wednesday 5:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 411 words
Byline: Paul McClean and Emma Dunkley in London
Body
Shares in British companies that charge customers high fees to pay by debit and credit card fell after the 
government said that such charges would be made illegal from next year.
The government said it was clamping down on “rip-off card charges” which were “unfair for millions of people across 
the country”, with  UK consumers estimated to have spent more than £470m on fees in 2010. The government said 
the fees can be as high as 20 per cent of a total bill, but would be banned from January.
Shares in Just Eat, the takeaway app, dropped more than 6 per cent initially — its worst day since January — but 
recovered to trade about 1 per cent lower by the end of the day. 
Just Eat charges 50p per credit card transaction, as does rival Hungryhouse, which is subject to a takeover 
approach by Just Eat. About 13 per cent of Just Eat’s revenues came from card fees last year, with two-thirds of its 
orders paid for by card.
UK-listed airlines also fell on the news before recovering later in the day, with the government specifically 
mentioning the sector when introducing the ban. BA and EasyJet charge 1 per cent extra for credit card 
transactions, while Ryanair and Norwegian airlines charge 2 per cent.
Stephen Barclay, economic secretary to the Treasury, said that the move was “about fairness and transparency”.
“Rip-off charges have no place in a modern Britain and that’s why card charging in Britain is about to come to an 
end,” he said 
UK retailers charging high card fees hit by clampdown
The rules also tackle surcharging by local councils and government agencies, such as the Driver and Vehicle 
Licensing Agency. The DVLA charges a flat fee of £2.50 for card payments — a policy it will be forced to amend. 
Other retailers are also affected. 
But some experts said banning surcharges will simply lead businesses to push up their prices. Larger businesses 
such as global airlines may absorb the costs to remain competitive, but smaller companies could come under 
greater pressure.
Analysts said that the exposure for airlines was more limited given any charges would be at a much lower 
percentage of earnings than takeaway apps.
Analysts at Barclays said the rules were simply the implementation of an EU directive, and that the share price 
move for companies like Just Eat was unwarranted. 
Barclays said that Just Eat’s business model was not directly affected by this legislation, and added that the 
affected companies would likely “raise prices to cover this” or will add “generic administration fees” to transactions.
Load-Date: July 21, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet seeks high-flyer as challenges mount
EasyJet seeks high-flyer as challenges mount
 
FT.com
July 19, 2017 Wednesday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 811 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Dame Carolyn McCall landed at easyJet from the media industry and proved that an industry outsider can run an 
airline successfully.
As the chief executive prepares to depart for ITV, many within the industry expect the UK carrier to once again 
focus its search externally — outside the company and the airline sector — as it looks for her successor.
But with strategic challenges mounting, Europe’s second-biggest low-cost airline may feel more pressure to opt for 
someone with greater aviation experience.
EasyJet said on Monday that it had launched the search for Dame Carolyn’s replacement and expected to select 
from a “strong range of candidates”.
It is likely to cast its net wide. The airline will be hunting someone who can continue the strong recent financial 
performance — albeit which suffered a blip last year — as well as deal with new challenges such as Brexit and 
increased competition.
Potential internal candidates include Chris Browne, easyJet’s chief operating officer, who has worked at Tui Travel 
and Spanish airline Iberia; Andrew Findlay, chief financial officer, and Peter Duffy, who heads up the carrier’s 
marketing department. 
But Jonathan Wober, an analyst at CAPA Centre for Aviation, says an external candidate would be a good move, 
adding that there are still “too many airline people running airlines”.
EasyJet seeks high-flyer as challenges mount
“It’s obviously a very technical industry, so you clearly need airline people, but airline managers are often a bit too 
much in love with the toys. [You need] someone who can come in a bit more objectively and say it makes sense to 
dedicate resource and invest or not,” he says.
Dame Carolyn, who was previously chief executive of the Guardian Media Group, has been credited with 
transforming easyJet, which, when she joined in 2010, was suffering from a bungled crewing strategy and 
punctuality problems.
Under her leadership operating margins have risen from 7 per cent to a peak of 14.7 per cent in 2015. This fell to 
10.9 per cent in 2016 after a difficult year for the airline industry, during which Brexit, terrorist attacks and a capacity 
glut hit profitability. 
“What they need is someone who is going to take a fresh approach on costs,” says Gerald Khoo, analyst at 
Liberum. “One of the big challenges that easyJet faces is getting costs coming down again. Non-fuel unit costs are 
not out of control but they are not falling despite their recent efforts.”
The broader challenge for the group’s next chief executive will be navigating a competitive squeeze from two 
directions: Ryanair, Europe’s largest low-cost airline, has a lower cost base and is moving upmarket by opening up 
bases in more primary airports and introducing allocated seating. EasyJet is also facing competition from legacy 
carriers that are attempting to copy its business model.
“EasyJet still has a cost advantage over legacy carriers but it's that squeeze — at the moment it's not apparent that 
it is hurting them but in the longer run, unless Ryanair dramatically loses its focus or does something crazy, that’s 
the issue they have to resolve,” says Mr Wober. 
Andrew Lobbenberg, aviation analyst at HSBC, agrees that easyJet and Ryanair are likely to “bump up against 
each other more often than they once did”. However he believes there is still potential for both low-cost airlines to 
gain market share from other carriers.
It is these strategic challenges that could require easyJet to opt for someone with aviation experience this time. 
“The market has become more challenging over the past year, that’s why I think it would be important to have an 
industry player. Operational acumen is going to be key,” says John Strickland, a London-based aviation analyst. 
“They will also need someone who can handle the regulatory and competitive challenges of Brexit.”
EasyJet has already gone some way towards dealing with the looming issue of Britain’s departure from the EU. The 
low-cost airline last week announced that it will soon receive an air operating licence in Austria, which will help it 
secure the rights to fly within the EU. However, there is still concern from many within the industry over what post-
Brexit deal there will be to enable airlines to fly to and from the UK. 
A more immediate issue for both Dame Carolyn and the next chief executive will be improving on-time performance 
again, which has been hit recently by problems at Gatwick and air traffic control strikes. 
“The on time performance statistics improved steadily under Carolyn but in the past year or two they’ve started 
declining again,” says Mr Wober. “That’s probably an issue in terms of the operational side that anyone coming in 
will need to reverse the slide on. You don’t want to go back to where it was before she arrived otherwise at some 
point customers start to get annoyed again.”
The article has been corrected to reflect that Andrew Lobbenberg is an aviation analyst at HSBC
Load-Date: July 19, 2017
End of Document
Wizz Air boss accelerates contingencies for Brexit
Wizz Air boss accelerates contingencies for Brexit
 
FT.com
July 19, 2017 Wednesday 3:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 579 words
Byline: Andrew Byrne in Budapest.
Body
Wizz Air, central and eastern Europe’s largest low-cost carrier, is accelerating contingency planning for Brexit as 
the group warned of the risks of Britain crashing out of the EU.
Jozsef Varadi, chief executive, remains committed to increasing the carrier’s capacity on UK-European flights 
despite the regulatory challenges that might be thrown up by a failure to reach agreement on regulation and other 
areas.
“What we are seeing, is that it is becoming increasingly likely that there will not be an early deal [on aviation]. 
Uncertainty will remain the context,” he said. “We need to protect interests of our consumers and of our investors.” 
Mr Varadi said  Wizz Air would proceed with plans to secure a British air operating certificate, AOC, to allow it to 
continue operating flights to and from Britain, even if the country leaves the EU without agreeing a new bilateral 
arrangement. 
But he warned that there was a growing likelihood of a no-deal scenario. 
Airlines are grappling with a range of regulatory puzzles in the wake of Britain’s decision to exit the EU.
These include agreeing a new legal basis for British airlines to operate flights between EU countries and ownership 
rules requiring airlines operating in the region to be majority controlled by entities in the bloc. 
Wizz Air boss accelerates contingencies for Brexit
 Ryanair has even warned it will have to halt flights from the UK for “weeks or months” if London is unable to secure 
quickly an international deal with Brussels securing “open skies” for aviation. 
Mr Varadi said the Budapest-based carrier was already engaged in talks with UK officials on its contingency plans 
and said the company had prior experience in agreeing AOCs with non-EU countries, such as Ukraine. 
He said Wizz would move “full steam ahead” in securing an AOC in the UK after the summer. 
“The problem is we can’t keep speculating on the situation. We cannot control the situation — we just don’t know 
how it will play out.” 
The warnings came as Wizz Air announced its quarterly results for the three months to June 2017. 
The airline said full-year net profit would be at the upper end of its guided range of €250m-€270m. This was thanks 
to strong Easter demand and steady economic growth in central and eastern Europe. 
Total revenue increased 29 per cent to €469.3m, while pre-tax profits rose 16 per cent to €60.5m. The airline 
carried 7.2m passengers — an increase of more than a quarter compared with the same period last year. 
Analysts said Brexit would also trigger so-called second derivative effects for airlines such as Wizz Air, since EU 
rules place a 49.9 per cent cap on non-EU shareholders.
Wizz Air in January said about 51 per cent of its shareholders were “qualifying nationals” — meaning citizens of the 
EU, European Economic Area and Switzerland. 
In case of a “hard Brexit”, without changes to ownership rules, the airline could be forced to change its shareholder 
structure. 
“This rule might cause major problems for the European company IAG which owns 100 per cent of British Airways, 
but may affect the liquidity of other airlines listed in London such as Wizz Air,” said Daniel Tunkli, analyst at 
Budapest’s Concorde Securities.
Mr Varadi said he expected the financial sector would examine methods of complying with the ownership rules and 
added that Wizz Air would ensure it met the requirements. 
“We are not the only player in this situation — we are looking at all of our options,” he said. “We will be compliant — 
we don’t have another choice to be honest.”
Load-Date: July 20, 2017
End of Document
Shares in airlines and takeaway companies fall on card fee ban
Shares in airlines and takeaway companies fall on card fee ban
 
FT.com
July 19, 2017 Wednesday 11:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 437 words
Byline: Paul McClean
Body
Shares in UK-listed companies that charge customers high fees to pay by credit card are sliding after the 
government said such charges will be illegal from next year.
The government said it was clamping down on “rip off card charges” which were “unfair for millions of people across 
the country”, after UK consumers spent more than £470m on the fees in 2010.
Shares in takeaway app Just Eat are down 6 per cent – its worst day since January. Just Eat charges 50p per credit 
card transaction, as does its takeover target HungryHouse. 13 per cent of Just Eat’s revenues came from card fees 
last year, and 2/3 of its orders were paid for by card.
UK-listed airlines are also falling, as the government specifically mentioned the sector when introducing the ban. 
IAG, parent company of British Airways, is down 2.2 per cent, and Easyjet is down 2.1 per cent. BA and Easyjet 
charge 1 per cent extra for credit card transactions, while Ryanair and Norwegian airlines charge 2 per cent.
The government said the fees, which can be as high as 20 per cent, would be banned from January.
Stephen Barclay, economic secretary to the Treasury, said:
“Rip-off charges have no place in a modern Britain and that’s why card charging in Britain is about to come to 
an end.“This is about fairness and transparency, and so from next year there will be no more nasty surprises 
for people at the check-out just for using a card.“These small charges can really add up and this change will 
mean shoppers across the country have that bit of extra cash to spend on the things that matter to them.”
Shares in airlines and takeaway companies fall on card fee ban
The rules also tackle surcharging by local councils and government agencies, such as the Driver and Vehicle 
Licensing Agency. The DVLA charges a flat fee of £2.50 for card payments – a policy it will be force to amend.
But some experts said banning surcharges will simply lead businesses to push up their prices. Larger businesses 
such as global airlines may absorb the costs to remain competitive, but smaller companies could come under 
greater pressure.
Analysts at Barclays said the rules were simply the implementation of an EU directive, and that the share price 
move for companies like Just Eat was unwarranted.
The share price reaction would suggest that the market’s interpretation is that Just Eat can no longer charge 
card processing fees to its restaurant customers and that it will lose its card processing revenue. This is 
incorrect, and Just Eat’s business model is not directly impacted by this legislation.
They added that the affected companies would likely “raise prices to cover this” or will add “generic administration 
fees” to transactions.
Load-Date: July 19, 2017
End of Document
Just relax and let Davis get on with the job
Just relax and let Davis get on with the job
 
FT.com
July 18, 2017 Tuesday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 355 words
Body
Sir, Martin Wolf should take a deep breath and count to 10. We all know that the journalist’s job is to fill column 
inches and to sell newspapers, or these days, to generate clicks and page views — if you don’t get read, you don’t 
get fed. However, Mr Wolf’s musings on the prospects for post-Brexit Britain and in particular the conduct of the 
negotiations (“Britain is incapable of managing Brexit and calamity will follow”, July 14) have become almost 
hysterical.
The negotiations with the EU have barely begun and already Mr Wolf is, well, crying wolf. Does he not understand 
how negotiations work? The protagonists set out their respective positions on the key issues; they then posture, 
pontificate and prevaricate. Brickbats are thrown, denunciations are issued, perhaps one or other party walks out at 
some point, and then they get back to the business of negotiating a compromise because that is what ultimately 
makes sense for both sides.
Mr Wolf is correct that the Conservatives are split over Brexit — the country is split, the referendum result showed 
us that. He is also correct that the general election result has weakened the government’s authority. Perhaps there 
should be another referendum in an attempt to settle the matter. However, in assessing the balance of interests at 
stake Mr Wolf persists in looking at only one side. It is an indisputable fact that the British economy would be 
damaged if trade relations broke down between the UK and the EU, but is that really likely to happen given the 
enormous losses that would be incurred on the other side of the channel?
If easyJet and Ryanair stop flying to Carcassonne and Cagliari, would this really be in the interests of the citizens of 
those places? Perhaps the EU and the leaders of its member states are prepared to sacrifice the economic 
Just relax and let Davis get on with the job
interests of their people to make a bigger political point, but if that is really the case, would that not rather support 
the rationale for Brexit?
Mr Wolf and others should calm down, relax, enjoy the summer sunshine and allow David Davis and his team to get 
on with the job at hand.
Stephen McKeever
Belfast, N Ireland
Load-Date: July 18, 2017
End of Document
easyJet : doors to manual
easyJet: doors to manual
 
FT.com
July 17, 2017 Monday 4:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 418 words
Body
The good news for any prospective chief executive of easyJet is that the incumbent will take care of the most 
immediate challenge. The bad news is that bigger, less wieldy risks lie over the horizon.
On Monday, easyJet confirmed that its chief executive of seven years, Dame Carolyn McCall, will leave to take the 
same role at broadcaster ITV. But she will remain at the airline until the end of this year, and so will present third-
quarter numbers later this week and full-year results due in late November.
That could be tricky. The shares have rallied strongly and are not far off pre-Brexit vote levels. 
As a result, they trade at a higher multiple of earnings than rivals Ryanair, Wizz Air and Norwegian — even though 
there have been few upgrades to analysts’ forecasts. Investors clearly expect good news.
The calendar could help supply it: Easter this year fell in the third fiscal quarter. Exchange rates have also moved a 
little in the company’s favour. 
In  Monday’s statement, it said that load factors had been strong and non-fuel costs contained. These are all useful 
developments, but it is hard to see them transforming the outlook.
EasyJet is expanding capacity this year and next, mostly by adding larger aircraft to existing routes. 
Even allowing for a £250m reduction in capital spending announced at the half-year results, that could in time put 
free cash flow under pressure. Strong demand and pricing could offset that. 
easyJet : doors to manual
But if low fuel costs encourage rivals to add capacity, yields may come under pressure. Unlike rival Ryanair, 
easyJet pays regular dividends. That partly reflects the priorities of its founder and major shareholder Stelios Haji-
Ioannou. But it could limit financial flexibility. 
Then there is Brexit. Dame Carolyn has done what she can to prepare easyJet for the UK’s departure from the EU. 
Last week, the airline said it would set up an Austrian subsidiary with a European air operator’s certificate for intra-
EU routes. 
The nature of post-2019 governance for UK-EU flights remains unclear. So far, Britons have shown few signs of 
cutting back on trips overseas. That, too, could change.
So Dame Carolyn’s successor will have to navigate Brexit and keep a volatile major shareholder onside while 
executing an ambitious expansion plan. It is enough to make running a free-to-air broadcaster look easy.
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Has Carolyn McCall timed her exit from easyJet well? 
Please tell us what you think in the comments section below. 
Load-Date: July 18, 2017
End of Document
Carolyn McCall wins over critics in 7 years at easyJet
Carolyn McCall wins over critics in 7 years at easyJet
 
FT.com
July 17, 2017 Monday 4:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 536 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, industry editor
Body
In the seven years since Dame  Carolyn McCall became chief executive of easyJet, she has gone from being 
dismissed by her fiercest rivals to winning their open admiration.
Michael O’Leary, the head of rival Ryanair, who once labelled the former Guardian Media Group boss a “media 
luvvie”, said the airline industry would have been poorer without her. 
“I clearly underestimated her and I was proved wrong,” he said. “She forced us to up our game on customer 
service. EasyJet and the industry are better as a result of her tenure.”
Willie Walsh, chief executive of British Airways parent, International Airlines Group, said he was “sorry to see 
Carolyn leave the aviation industry. She’s done a good job”. 
News of Dame Carolyn’s decision to leave Europe’s second-biggest low-cost carrier to go to UK broadcaster ITV 
comes two months after the airline unveiled its biggest interim loss in six years and eight months after a 28 per cent 
decline in 2016 profits. 
In its defence, many European airlines have struggled with the impact of terrorist attacks in Europe, currency, and a 
capacity glut, which has hit fares. 
Behind the headline numbers, Dame Carolyn’s tenure at the airline with the orange livery has brought passenger 
numbers to record highs, while its planes have never been as full. In the past seven years, some £1.2bn has been 
Carolyn McCall wins over critics in 7 years at easyJet
paid out in dividends. And despite last year’s setback, easyJet’s share price has almost quadrupled from the 
opening price of 382p on the day she took over and the airline has moved into the FTSE 100. 
Even the aggressively competitive Mr O’Leary says the recent blip in profits should not be exaggerated. “They are 
still by a long way the second most profitable low-cost airline in Europe,” he says.
Ms McCall arrived at  easyJet with a brief, first, to resolve a damaging row over strategy with its Cypriot founder Sir 
Stelios Haji-Ioannou, and second to restore the reputation of an airline notorious for delays and struggling to digest 
years of frantic double digit expansion. 
She began to rebuild the brand, focusing on customer service and taking low cost into the lucrative business travel 
market. The strategy paid off, forcing others to respond. Mr O’Leary not only improved Ryanair’s service, but began 
to speak of his own passengers in slightly more respectful tones. 
Now easyJet is facing new strategic challenges, the most immediate of which is Brexit. The carrier last week 
announced that it will soon receive an air operating licence in Austria, securing the rights to fly within the EU — 
accounting for roughly 30 per cent of its flights. However, much uncertainty remains over a post-Brexit deal to cover 
flights to and from the UK.
Dame Carolyn’s successor will also have to respond to competition that is catching up fast on easyJet’s service 
advantage, making its drive to lower costs even more vital for the years to come. 
“The branding has blurred a bit between all low-cost carriers,” says Stephen Furlong, aviation analyst at Davy. 
“There is a competitive squeeze with Ryanair on one side and the British Airways and other legacy carriers coming 
down in terms of costs. But [easyJet] will say the cost gap is still enormous and there is plenty of space to grow.”
Load-Date: July 17, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet to set up Vienna-based airline to ease Brexit pressures
EasyJet to set up Vienna-based airline to ease Brexit pressures
 
FT.com
July 14, 2017 Friday 12:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 565 words
Byline: Paul McClean in Brussels and Nicholas Megaw in London
Body
EasyJet will establish a new Vienna-based airline so it can continue its European operations after  Brexit as UK 
carriers look to minimise disruption and maintain flights within the continent from 2019.
The establishment of “EasyJet Europe” will allow the low-cost  airline to continue to operate flights within European 
countries, even if the UK and EU fail to sign a deal that preserves all the benefits of the single aviation market. EU 
rules state that an airline must be based in Europe in order to fly across the continent.
 EasyJet said on Friday that its application for an “air operating certificate” in Austria was “well advanced” and final 
approval was expected in the coming weeks. The move will create up to 20 administrative jobs on the continent and 
the airline’s staff in the EU will now work for the new company.
The establishment of a base in Austria means the group will become a pan European airline, with businesses 
registered in Austria, the UK and Switzerland. This will allow easyJet’s UK aircraft to operate UK-EU routes and its 
Austrian aircraft to operate intra-EU routes, even if UK carriers are not granted access to the single aviation market.
It does not solve all the airline’s Brexit troubles, however. Strict EU rules limit non-EU ownership and control of an 
airline to 50 per cent, and easyJet has previously warned that it is set to exceed this threshold once its UK 
shareholders are no longer classed as EU nationals.
Analysts warn that the airlines have provisions in their bylaws to force non-EU shareholders to sell, should their 
operating licence be under threat, and may use them if necessary.
EasyJet to set up Vienna-based airline to ease Brexit pressures
This week Willie Walsh, chief executive of International Airlines Group, which owns British Airways and Iberia, 
called for the rules to be relaxed, saying the EU “operates under an arcane system regulating the ownership and 
control of airlines”.
EasyJet said it would “continue to push for the UK and EU to reach an aviation agreement which, at a minimum, will 
enable flights between the UK and EU”. 
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of rival Ryanair, this week warned there was a “real possibility” of flights between 
the EU and UK stopping after Brexit, and said that other large European airlines hoped to squeeze out UK and Irish 
competitors.
Thomas Krupp, senior vice-president at Lufthansa, said Brexit could bring “thorough and quite terrible 
consequences” for his airline — potentially damaging economic growth and damping appetite for air travel across 
Europe. But he was adamant that UK airlines should not be allowed to join the single aviation market without 
abiding by the same laws as EU airlines. “What we don’t want is for different legislation to apply within the single 
market. The same rules should always apply,” he said.
EasyJet expected the Austrian move to have no impact on passengers or route schedules, and said it had chosen 
the country due to the similarities between its safety regulator and the UK regulator.
“The criteria for selection were rooted in finding a regulator that would be the best fit for easyJet,” said the company, 
which wanted to ensure it was not working with three different safety management systems. “Austro Control [the 
Austrian regulator] has a rigorous approach to safety regulation, contributing to EASA’s drive towards shaping 
future safety regulation with an emphasis on performance based safety regulation.”
Load-Date: July 17, 2017
End of Document
Lombard: Far too British Airways
Lombard: Far too British Airways
 
FT.com
July 12, 2017 Wednesday 11:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 355 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
One unexpected upside from a “Hard(er) Brexit” may be cheaper giant Toblerones. But will this be enough to 
compensate airline investors for suddenly cheaper shares? 
Last year, the triangular chocolate bars conspicuously sold at airports became stealthily more expensive. Their 
shape and weight were changed to pass on higher costs to consumers. 
However, if Britain is unable to negotiate new travel deals with Brussels, one consequence may be the return of EU 
duty-free sales. One other consequence, though, may be the forced selling of shares in International Airlines Group, 
easyJet and Ryanair.
Earlier this week, Willie Walsh, IAG chief executive, alluded to the latter risk, by calling for a transport agreement 
that resolves the problem of EU ownership rules. These state that to operate intra-EU flights, airlines must be at 
least 50 per cent owned by EU nationals. Post-Brexit, when UK shareholders no longer count as EU nationals, 
IAG’s investor base is set to become majority non-EU.
EasyJet faces a similar problem — although less so if the shares of founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou are classified 
under his Cypriot nationality. Then, on Wednesday, Ryanair said it may have found its own solution, by having 
pension fund investors move their shares to EU entities — despite lawyers suggesting this is a grey area, as it is 
the ultimate owners that count. 
Lombard: Far too British Airways
IAG currently uses trust structures to ensure correct national ownership of its British Airways and Iberia units. But 
the EU is now focused on holding company ownership — and can force share sales, or loss of voting rights, to meet 
the 50 per cent EU quota. 
With travel group Tui estimating that the three airlines account for €21bn of EU tourism revenues, a travel deal is 
likely to remain a bargaining chip late into Brexit negotiations. And the longer forced share sales stay on the table, 
the greater the potential stock overhang. Why, then, are shares in IAG, easyJet and Ryanair all up in the past 
month? Could it be that investors are hoping for a giant fudge? 
---------------
Today’s other Lombard note:
Brexit twist for Burberry and JD Wetherspoon
---------------
Load-Date: July 13, 2017
End of Document
IAG calls for EU to relax ownership laws as Brexit concerns mount
IAG calls for EU to relax ownership laws as Brexit concerns mount
 
FT.com
July 12, 2017 Wednesday 10:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 846 words
Byline: Paul McClean in Brussels
Body
International Airlines Group has pleaded for the EU to overhaul its “arcane” airline ownership laws, which rivals and 
analysts warn could force the owner of British Airways and Iberia to buy out a quarter of its shareholders or risk 
being broken up after  Brexit.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, told the European Parliament on Tuesday he was “confident” the company’s 
structures would survive Brexit and meet the EU’s strict licensing rules.
But, in his first admission of potential challenges ahead, Mr Walsh called for the UK and EU to reach a 
comprehensive air transport agreement that “should also clarify” that UK nationals would count towards the EU 
ownership requirements, even after Brexit. 
Speaking to a group of MEPs, Mr Walsh said the EU “operates under an arcane system regulating the ownership 
and control of airlines”, and called for the rules to be relaxed. 
“Those structures are unnecessary,” he said. “I would prefer to see a situation whereby we don’t have to replicate 
[them].” 
For an airline to operate routes within the EU, it must demonstrate that it is effectively owned and controlled by EU 
nationals, with at least 50 per cent of its shares held by EU nationals. This poses a problem for UK airlines after 
Brexit, when their UK shareholders will no longer be classed as EU shareholders.
IAG calls for EU to relax ownership laws as Brexit concerns mount
Several independent estimates all point to IAG falling below 50 per cent after Brexit, a problem shared with other 
airlines. 
Senior EU officials, analysts and rivals of IAG have told the Financial Times that, unless the UK and EU reach an 
agreement to waive the issue, IAG will be forced to spin off part of the group or buy out up to a quarter of its 
shareholder base in order to maintain lucrative EU flying rights. 
Andrew Lobbenberg, head of transport equities at HSBC, told the FT: “After Brexit, we think IAG will need to be 
demonstrably an EU-owned and controlled airline. But it is unclear how that gets to be the case.” 
Michael O’Leary of Ryanair, an outspoken critic of IAG and its Irish carrier Aer Lingus, said the airline was “in 
complete . . . denial” about the ownership challenge. 
“They’re hoping that it’ll go away,” he told the FT. “They’ll have to front up to how catastrophic it is at some point 
though. They don’t know themselves [how to solve it]. But their shareholders will have to sell, and the group has to 
get broken up.” 
Brian Havel, a professor in aviation law at the University of Oxford, also told the FT that IAG “could not exist in its 
current form” after Brexit.
Mr Walsh has in the past said he has “absolutely no concerns” about the IAG structure, which ensures all three of 
its carriers are able to maintain their national flying rights in Spain, the UK and Ireland, and has denied that the 
group will need to be broken up. A spokesperson for IAG said it would “continue to comply with all the relevant 
ownership and control regulations”.
Unlike some other airlines, IAG has refused to reveal what proportion of its current shareholders would still be EU 
nationals after Brexit. A clause in the company’s bylaws allows the IAG board to determine which “bona fide” 
interested parties can be given information on the group’s shareholder breakdown on request. The FT asked for 
such information, but was told its request was not “bona fide”. 
Stephen Furlong, an aviation analyst at Davy, estimates that the group will be 20 per cent owned by EU nationals in 
2019, and Bloomberg data also suggest that only one-fifth of the group’s shareholders will be EU nationals after 
Brexit. One independent financial analysis circulating in the industry suggests that, even in the best-case scenario, 
where all those shares whose ownership is difficult to trace are classified as belonging to EU nationals, IAG 
remains 6 per cent short of the 50 per cent limit.
IAG has provisions in its bylaws to force non-EU shareholders to sell their shares if the company is at risk of losing 
its flying rights. The EU takes the issue of ownership requirements seriously, and has previously investigated 
airlines where it suspects non-EU ownership has dropped below 50 per cent. 
UK airlines were hoping that a set of guidelines on ownership and control issued by the European Commission last 
month would loosen the rules. Instead, they merely reinforced the status quo and confirmed that the EU will 
consider “effective control” — specifically, the entities or persons who ultimately own the shares — when deciding if 
an airline is majority controlled by EU nationals.
Other airlines have been more explicit about the challenges that ownership rules will pose after Brexit. EasyJet has 
said it will be 49 per cent owned by EU nationals after Brexit, while Ryanair said 38 per cent of its shareholder base 
would EU owned and controlled. 
Mr O’Leary told the FT on Tuesday that he hopes to make up some of the shortfall by encouraging pension funds to 
switch from holding shares in the UK to the EU, but warned that up to 10 per cent of his non-EU shareholders — 
potentially including UK nationals — “may be forced to sell their shares or be disenfranchised.”
Load-Date: July 16, 2017
IAG calls for EU to relax ownership laws as Brexit concerns mount
End of Document
Ukraine urges Ryanair to resume flight talks
Ukraine urges Ryanair to resume flight talks
 
FT.com
July 11, 2017 Tuesday 4:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 539 words
Byline: Roman Olearchyk in Kiev
Body
Ukraine’s prime minister on Tuesday has appealed to Ryanair to resume talks over flights to the country as a 
domestic political row escalated over the airline’s decision to cancel its plans.
Volodymyr Groysman said the country had “decided to renew the negotiation process with Ryanair”, a day after the 
airline accused Kiev’s airport of failing to honour a deal.  Ukraine was “not yet a sufficiently mature or reliable 
business location to invest”, Ryanair said.
The collapse of talks with Europe’s largest budget airline has sparked anger on Ukrainian social media. It comes a 
month after the implementation of an agreement to allow visa-free travel to the EU promised Ukrainians closer, 
cheaper and easier access to the west.
Volodymyr Omelyan, Ukraine’s transport minister, on Tuesday accused Pavlo Riabikin, Boryspil airport’s chief 
executive, of sabotaging negotiations and trying to protect Ukraine International Airlines, which is co-owned by Igor 
Kolomoisky, one of Ukraine’s most influential oligarchs.
Mr Riabikin denied wrongdoing and claimed other national airports had also failed to reach agreement with Ryanair, 
saying the carrier was asking for unfeasible concessions that could incur vast airport losses. Ukraine International 
Airlines also denied any interference in the talks.
Mr Groysman called for an investigation of “a situation which has drawn broad public and political” resonance but 
urged officials to finalise months of negotiations with Ryanair.
Ukraine urges Ryanair to resume flight talks
“As politicians argue over who is to blame, our passengers are suffering,” Mr Groysman added.
The prime minister’s reaction shows the embarrassment in Kiev, where the pro-western leadership has invested 
heavily in easing travel to Europe as part of its broader aspiration of closer ties with the west.
Senior EU leaders are also due in Kiev this week for a two-day summit when they are likely to deepen calls for 
Ukraine’s leadership to speed up patchy reforms and combat still widespread political corruption.
Ryanair said on Monday it would cancel 11 planned routes from the UK, Netherlands and other European 
destinations to Kiev and Lviv, the largest city in western Ukraine.
“Regrettably, Kiev airport has . . . chosen to protect high fare airlines (including Ukraine International Airlines) and 
deprive Ukrainian consumers/visitors access to Europe’s lowest air fares and widest route network,” the company 
said.
Nearly 100,000 Ukrainians have since the June 11 launch date made short EU visits under the visa-free regime, 
which Petro Poroshenko, Ukraine’s president, has hailed as break from invasive visa applications and “a final 
goodbye to the Russian Empire”.
Mr Poroshenko has seen his popularity plunge amid three years of war with Russian-backed separatists in Far 
Eastern regions. Unpopular and patchy reforms under a $17.5bn International Monetary Fund reform programme 
have yet to sharply raise living standards as the country crawls out of a deep recession.
Mr Kolomoisky, the co-owner of Ukraine International Airlines, is embroiled in a separate stand-off with the 
government and central bank over related-party loans to PrivatBank, the country’s largest bank that was 
nationalised last year. He was not directly named by Mr Omelyan and did not comment.
Load-Date: July 21, 2017
End of Document
Klarna/Visa: pay pals
Klarna/Visa: pay pals
 
FT.com
June 27, 2017 Tuesday 4:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 342 words
Body
The imposing façades that banks use to reassure customers of their stability are hard to replicate online. Installing 
the virtual equivalent slows down and frustrates shoppers. Klarna’s solution of removing it altogether has made the 
Swedish e-commerce company one of Europe’s most highly valued start-ups. 
Sixty million people already use the service, mostly in mainland Europe. With a newly minted banking license and 
Visa secured as an investor, Klarna is hoping to ramp up US and UK exposure. If successful, it will reap the 
rewards of a global leap in online shopping. Market research company Statista expects online retail sales to rise 
from 7 per cent of the total to 13 per cent by 2019.
Klarna’s sales pitch is based on easy access to goods and credit. Shoppers using Klarna-affiliated stores need only 
provide an email address and postcode. If it deems them creditworthy, they can pay after they receive the goods.
Whether the startup warrants its most recent valuation of $2.25bn, more than five times last year’s revenue, 
depends on how well it deals with increased competition and fraud risk as it grows. Payment services in the US and 
UK are more crowded fields than Germany and Sweden, with Amazon Pay, PayPal, Stripe and Square already 
jostling for attention with banks.
Klarna’s oft-repeated ambition to be the Ryanair of banking is a good start. There is a reason why shares in Ryanair 
trade at a premium to the wider airline industry — the low-cost model keeps the group profitable even when flight 
sales dip. Unusually for a tech start-up, Klarna makes money too, with an operating margin of 14 per cent on 
SKr992m ($114m) first-quarter sales. 
Klarna/Visa: pay pals
This revenue relies heavily on consumer lending, which relies on credit history and transaction data to determine 
risk. Midnight purchases of multiple TVs, for example, ring alarm bells. Klarna says its has a low fraud rate of 3.7 
basis points, but this data is from 2014. As it grows, Klarna will need to provide more evidence that it can balance 
expansion with security. 
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: July 25, 2017
End of Document
Lufthansa : acrophobia
Lufthansa: acrophobia
 
FT.com
June 26, 2017 Monday 3:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 328 words
Body
Talk about reducing payloads. Lufthansa, the German flag carrier, has tried hard to shed excess baggage from its 
balance sheet. Partly as a result, its shares have soared. They are up 59 per cent this year, near a five-year peak 
and one of the best performers in Europe. But reducing leverage will only take Lufthansa so high.
The airline has an €8.6bn pension liability, well over four times its net financial debt. It may reduce this by over a 
quarter if it can close a deal with its pilots and cabin crew. Persistent labour disputes since 2014 only ended this 
spring. Against that backdrop, rising from tenth to seventh in the most recent  Skytrax customer poll of 100 airlines 
must feel like a victory for the company’s managers.
All that bargaining with pilots and crew should produce an accounting benefit. Assuming  Lufthansa can put through 
all the agreed pension plan changes, the savings add up to about €4 to €5 per share — although much of that 
benefit has been reflected in a share price of €19.18. The pension liability partly explains why Lufthansa’s 
enterprise value is a paltry three times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. 
The recent bankruptcy of Alitalia will not help the German airline much. Overlap between the businesses is modest. 
Ireland’s Ryanair already had the leading share in that country, ahead of even Alitalia. And Lufthansa certainly does 
not need a stronger Ryanair. Together they share the highest short-haul exposures in Europe at 11 per cent each. 
Ryanair is already expanding aggressively in Germany itself.
True, Lufthansa’s long-haul business has shown signs of improvement. Pricing should soon stop declining year on 
year for the first time in at least three years. Although with the European airline sector close to peak operating 
margins, the only way could well be down. Better to change planes. Low cost carriers also benefit from cheaper 
fuel, and carry no pension payloads.
Lufthansa : acrophobia
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: June 27, 2017
End of Document
The Swedish fintech chief licensed to chill banking
The Swedish fintech chief licensed to chill banking
 
FT.com
June 23, 2017 Friday 12:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 641 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic Correspondent
Body
Swedish business bosses are known for being careful with their words, even some might say dull. Sebastian 
Siemiatkowski is different. 
It might be his tech background or his age, he is 35, but the chief executive of Klarna is not afraid to speak his mind. 
Announcing this week that his company had become the biggest fintech in Europe to receive a banking licence, he 
said he wanted Klarna to become the “Ryanair” of the sector and attack the high-voltage incumbents. 
“Ryanair has pretty bad customer service,” sniffed one senior Swedish banker. But in the next breath, she added: 
“That’s to take nothing away from Klarna. What Sebastian has achieved there is remarkable.” 
Mr Siemiatkowski and two university friends took a deceptively simple idea on invoicing and applied it to the digital 
age. The result is an online payments system that is simpler for customers and better for merchants, with fewer 
dropped transactions caused by people balking at filling in too much information. Instead, customers pay for online 
goods after they receive them, and Klarna takes the credit risk from the sellers in return for a cut. 
Entered 12 years ago in an entrepreneur competition at Sweden’s leading business school, the idea was rejectedby 
many of the country’s leading executives. The desire to prove that elite wrong still clearly motivates Mr 
Siemiatkowski. “For me personally, it’s a day I’ve been looking forward to for a long time,” he said of Monday’s 
decision by Swedish regulators to give Klarna a banking licence. 
The Swedish fintech chief licensed to chill banking
Mr Siemiatkowski has also long stood out in Sweden as one of the few business people willing to give his opinions 
about politics. Many others are unwilling to rock the boat in the consensus-driven country. 
Speaking after the most recent national elections that saw a breakthrough for the anti-immigration Sweden 
Democrats, Mr Siemiatkowski told the Financial Times: “We believe that Sweden becomes a much better place 
because people from all over the world are working here. Seeing the Sweden Democrats growing feels like taking 
the country back 100 years ago.” 
That impatience with the traditional ways of doing things has led to Klarna becoming one of the most highly valued 
technology groups in Europe. A round of fundraising in 2015 valued it at $2.25bn. And it is solidly profitable, making 
an operating profit of SKr138m ($16m) in the first quarter on revenues of SKr992m.
Klarna’s ambitions go way beyond increasing profits. Mr Siemiatkowski talks about how the financial industry is 
unusual for being a sector still dominated by national players, offering a broad range of services. His vision instead 
is of a group of global players offering specialised services. 
So Klarna will use its banking licence to offer bank cards and salary accounts to its 60m users. But it will not offer 
mortgages, savings products or share dealing. Instead, Mr Siemiatkowski expects other fintechs to do that, with the 
possibility of several of them teaming up loosely to provide the full offering. 
Its large userbase, mostly in Germany and the Nordics, means Mr Siemiatkowski thinks he can get around one big 
problem for fintechs of being largely unknown to the general public, who hesitate to trust them. “We are still moving 
at the speed of a fintech, but provide the trust and security of a bank. That makes us a super rare animal.” 
The big goal for Klarna, however, may only be tangentially connected to the banking licence. It is trying to crack the 
US and UK markets. Some wonder whether Mr Siemiatkowski has bitten off more than he can chew by becoming a 
bank. 
“Online payments is one thing. But being a bank you end up being heavily regulated. I wonder if they can cope with 
that,” says another top Swedish banker. 
Mr Siemiatkowski is not worried. He says: “Companies are cool, but banks are cooler. Building a bank is even 
cooler.” 
Load-Date: June 27, 2017
End of Document
Viva Air announces $5.3bn purchase of 50 new Airbus A320 jets
Viva Air announces $5.3bn purchase of 50 new Airbus A320 jets
 
FT.com
June 20, 2017 Tuesday 4:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 182 words
Byline: Financial Times
Body
Latin American budget airline Viva Air said on Tuesday it was buying 50 new Airbus A320s for its operations in 
Colombia and Peru at a cost of $5.3 billion.
“These new airplanes will give us a saving of up to 15 per cent in fuel, 14 per cent in operating costs and and 5 per 
cent in maintenance costs,” William Shaw, chief executive of Viva Air subsidiaries VivaColombia and Air Viva Peru, 
said in a statement at the Paris Airshow.
Viva Air is part of Irelandia Aviation, the company led by  Declan Ryan, son of Ryanair founder Tony Ryan. Irelandia 
Aviation started its foray into the Latin American budget airline market in Mexico in 2006 and Colombia in 2012. In 
May this year it expanded into             Peru.
Until now,  budget airlines have not really taken off in Latin America in the way they have in Europe and parts of 
Asia. It often costs five or six times as much to fly in the region as it does over a comparable distance in Europe.
Latin American cities boast few of the secondary airports where low-cost carriers thrive. And, with no EU-style 
single market, airline regulation can often be onerous.
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
Viva Air announces $5.3bn purchase of 50 new Airbus A320 jets
End of Document
Sweden ’s Klarna wins Europe’s biggest fintech banking licence
Sweden’s Klarna wins Europe’s biggest fintech banking licence
 
FT.com
June 19, 2017 Monday 8:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 363 words
Byline: Richard Milne
Body
Klarna has become the largest European fintech company to get a banking licence, with the Swedish group saying 
it wants to become the Ryanair of the sector, attacking lenders across the continent.
Valued at more than $2bn, Klarna has already captured much of the market for online payments in the Nordics and 
Germany, and on Monday received a banking licence from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority 20 months 
after filing for one.
“We want to be part of reshaping the retail banking industry. New regulations…set the right prerequisites for the 
destruction of that industry but it needs a Ryanair to come along. We want to be that player,” Sebastian 
Siemiatkowski, Klarna’s chief executive, told the Financial Times.
Fintech groups in Europe and the US such as SoFi and Zopa have been seeking full banking licences but Klarna – 
with its 60m customers across Europe and €13bn in transactions processed last year – is one of the largest.
The Swedish group – which had revenues of SKr3.6bn last year and was valued at $2.25bn in a fundraising in 2015 
– is looking at offering customers across Europe services such as bank cards and salary accounts as well as 
eyeing the US for future expansion.
Klarna, which is profitable, started off by allowing customers to buy and receive goods before paying them as well 
as taking on the credit risk for that for retailers. Mr Siemiatkowski has long had traditional banks in his sights, 
believing they offer poor customer service at inflated prices.
Sweden ’s Klarna wins Europe’s biggest fintech banking licence
He added that he thought an “iPhone moment” was coming in the banking industry when a new product – likely 
from fintechs – would completely change the sector.
“Banks are challenged. In the tech world, these companies get out competed very quickly if they don’t deliver. But 
due to regulation, banks with very old technology – and poor customer satisfaction – have been able to prevail,” he 
said.
Mr Siemiatkowski added:
What we have seen in all other industries – take retail – is global players such as H&M and Zara. Global but 
more specialised. When a market grows, specialisation increases. We are going to see more specialised 
customer offerings [in finance] that are at the same time global.
Load-Date: June 19, 2017
End of Document
Swedish fintech leader Klarna wins banking licence
Swedish fintech leader Klarna wins banking licence
 
FT.com
June 19, 2017 Monday 9:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 578 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic Correspondent
Body
Klarna has become the largest European fintech company to secure a banking licence, with the Swedish group 
saying it wants to become a Ryanair-type low-cost disruptor of the sector, attacking established lenders across the 
continent. 
Valued at more than $2bn, Klarna has already captured much of the market for online payments in the Nordics and 
Germany. On Monday, it received a banking licence from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, 20 months 
after filing for one. 
“We want to be part of reshaping the retail banking industry. New regulations . . . set the right prerequisites for the 
destruction of that industry, but it needs a Ryanair to come along. We want to be that player,” Sebastian 
Siemiatkowski, Klarna’s chief executive, told the Financial Times. 
Fintech groups in Europe and the US, such as SoFi and Zopa, have been seeking full banking licences, but Klarna 
— with its 60m customers across Europe and €13bn in transactions processed last year — is one of the largest. 
The Swedish group, which had revenues of SKr3.6bn ($410m) last year and was valued at $2.25bn in a fundraising 
in 2015, is looking at offering European customers services such as bank cards and salary accounts, as well as 
eyeing the US for future expansion. 
Swedish fintech leader Klarna wins banking licence
Klarna, which is profitable, started off by allowing customers to buy and receive goods before paying for them, 
taking on the credit risk for retailers. Mr Siemiatkowski has long had traditional banks in his sights, believing they 
offer poor customer service at inflated prices. 
He added that he thought an “iPhone moment” was coming in the banking industry, when a new product — likely 
from fintechs — would completely change the sector. 
“Banks are challenged. In the tech world, these companies get outcompeted very quickly if they don’t deliver. But 
due to regulation, banks with very old technology — and poor customer satisfaction — have been able to prevail,” 
he said. 
”What we have seen in all other industries — take retail — is global players [emerging] such as H&M and Zara. 
Global but more specialised. When a market grows, specialisation increases. We are going to see more specialised 
customer offerings [in finance] that are at the same time global.”
Chris Ward of Mapa Research, a digital banking consultancy, said that despite Klarna being “quite aggressive” in its 
approach, the big universal banks were likely to resist the fintech challenge for some time. “Fintechs are not going 
to break down your big incumbent banks. Those banks are always going to maintain a certain size giving them big 
economies of scale,” he added. 
The Swedish company, which was founded in 2005 by three friends, has changed its legal name to Klarna Bank, 
but will remain as Klarna for branding purposes. Mr Siemiatkowski said the banking licence would help it expand in 
places such as the US.  
“Outside Sweden, we have been seen as ‘kind of a bank’. To establish services, talk to regulators — [the banking 
licence] just provides a level of confidence: what kind of animal are you. It’s about legitimacy and trust,” he added. 
Mr Siemiatkowski stressed that Klarna was not considering an IPO anytime soon, as he underlined his scepticism 
of “quarterly capitalism”. He conceded that it might make sense “at some point of time” but added “we still want to 
grow fast”. 
Klarna would stick to areas related to payments and not go into mortgages and other services, he added, saying he 
expected other fintechs to attack banks there.
Load-Date: June 27, 2017
End of Document
Next falls sharply as retailers push FTSE 100 lower
Next falls sharply as retailers push FTSE 100 lower
 
FT.com
June 15, 2017 Thursday 6:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 456 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Next suffered the sharpest fall since its January profit warning on Thursday as retailers led the FTSE 100 sharply 
lower.
A store survey “would seem to suggest that Next has cut entry-level pricing during spring-summer, possibly in 
response to the very poor first-quarter sales”, Credit Suisse told clients. 
Its survey of European retailers found “significant and widespread” markdowns amid weak demand and online 
competition, with retailers aiming for a narrower range of price points in the face of rising dollar costs.
With sales migrating online and the UK showing no signs of recovery, Next is pursuing the wrong strategy, Credit 
Suisse argued. 
“Continuing to add space and increase prices feels wrong, and while self-help to apparel collections may improve 
through the year, the environment for homeware is likely to deteriorate,” it said.
Next, down 6.1 per cent to £40.37, takes some support from a near 8 per cent dividend yield, said Credit Suisse. 
But “with earnings, margins and cash conversion continuing to fall we regard Next as a value trap”, it said.
The rest of the sector retreated following unexpectedly weak UK retail sales figures for May and a profit warning 
from sofa retailer DFS, which slumped 20.6 per cent to 200p. Marks and Spencer lost 4.7 per cent to 351.8p and 
Kingfisher faded 2.8 per cent to 301.5p.
Next falls sharply as retailers push FTSE 100 lower
The FTSE 100 ended 0.7 per cent lower at 7,419.36, a 55.04 point fall, as hawkish signals from both the Bank of 
England and the Federal Reservetriggered a broad-based sell-off.
ITV slipped 3.1 per cent to 179.1p following a downgrade to “neutral” from Macquarie. “Valuation looks attractive, 
and ITV remains a credible takeover target, but we believe wandering British politics will inevitably affect advertising 
spending in 2017-18,” it said.
British Airways owner IAG lost 3.4 per cent to 584p, having confirmed that it faces an £80m bill for last month’s IT 
system failure. 
Goldman Sachs cut IAG to “neutral”, largely on valuation grounds. IAG’s free cash flow yield is at a peak level 
versus history with an uncertain outlook because of Brexit and the expansion of low-cost carriers to long-haul 
routes, it said. 
Goldman advised switching into Ryanair, off 0.7 per cent to €18.17.
Petrofac was up 3.9 per cent to 421p after Jefferies turned positive with a 500p target.
The recent extension of a credit facility and a contract win in Kuwait show that Petrofac can continue near normal in 
spite of the Serious Fraud Office investigation overhanging it, said Jefferies. 
Suspending the dividend should go a long way to protecting Petrofac from breaching debt covenants, assuming it 
can win $3bn of engineering and construction contract awards this year, against $2bn of business already 
announced, said the broker.
Load-Date: June 15, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels
Opening Quote: WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels
 
FT.com
June 14, 2017 Wednesday 7:11 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 774 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
WH Smith’s airport shops are about to be trashed. This is not advance warning of a stampede of FT readers 
seeking the Weekend foodie special (dine out for less than £300). Nor a prediction of what can happen if you 
charge holidaymakers a bit much for headphones (£19.99 for some basic plastic in-ear models). No, it is the chief 
executive’s own description of the scene after thousands of budget airline passengers grab the inflight extras their 
tickets exclude. And it is both a sight for sore eyes and music to his ears. Because, with the retailer’s high street 
stores in managed decline, WH Smith’s higher margin travel shops are its one source of profit growth.
Half-year sales at its rail and airport outlets were up 10 per cent in the six months to February. This morning, the 
trend continued. Total sales in travel outlets – which deliver 60 per cent of group profit – were up 8 per cent, 
boosted by 2 per cent of currency effects. On a like for like basis, they were up 5 per cent. Part of the rise was down 
to a continued increase in passenger numbers – easyJet and Ryanair both said volumes increased by around 10 
per cent in May. However, WH Smith also attributed the uplift to an ongoing focus on customer service, execution, 
space and category management.
On the high street, however, total sales were down 4 per cent on a like-for-like basis – in line with guidance and a 
strategy of selling less at better margins. Installing post offices in store helped keep customers coming: relocating 
another 58 took the total to 165.
But it was not enough to generate an increase in overall overall group sales: with the high street down, these came 
in flat on a like-for-like basis.
Opening Quote: WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels
Biffa‘s business is already trash… in that the newly floated company specialises in waste management for retailers, 
industrial companies and local authorities. And its maiden full-year numbers brush up quite well.
Revenues of £990.4m were 6.8 per cent up on the prior year – in line with forecasts. Net sales rose 8.3 per cent to 
£898.8m, mainly driven by growth in the industrial and commercial, municipal and resource recovery & treatment 
divisions.
As a result, underlying operating profit rose 18.1 per cent to £73.8m, thanks to a widening of the margin from 6.7 
per cent to 7.5 per cent. At the same time, year end net debt was kept below below 2 times earnings – at £246.1m.
Chief executive Ian Wakelin hinted at further acquisitions to boost growth and operational efficiency:
As a fully integrated, market-leading waste management services provider, we have the scale and the network 
to act as a consolidator in a highly fragmented market place. In the year we completed five acquisitions and 
have a strong pipeline of acquisition opportunities. At the same time, we have continued to take actions to 
improve the efficiency of our operations, get closer to our customers and leverage new opportunities for 
investment.
He also said the group had signed a partnership deal with Covanta, a developer and operator of energy recovery 
facilities, to explore the development of two large-scale plants in Leicestershire and Cheshire.
Broker Charles Stanley appears to have put a period of rubbish performance behind it. This morning, the company 
said it had swept back into profit from a £300,000 loss last year. It reported an £8.8m profit for the year ending in 
March, and expressed confidence that it could ride out any impact from the UK’s exit from the EU.
Chief executive Paul Abberley said:
Our strategy is now in place with improved governance, better cost control, a revised remuneration policy and 
clear plans to grow each of our client servicing divisions… Our aim remains to become the UK’s leading wealth 
manager by 2020.
And, finally, the mess that was Quindell gets messier. A UK subsidiary of Slater and Gordon, the troubled Australian 
legal firm, has served a claim against Watchstone Group – as Quindell is now known – over the ill-fated 2015 
acquisition of its professional services arm.
In a  statement to the ASX on Wednesday, S&G said it is seeking up to £637m in damages. Watchstone confirmed 
it had received the claim for breach of warranty and/or fraudulent misrepresentation.
S&G bought the business from Quindell in March 2015 for £673m, and announced an equity raising to fund the 
deal. Soon afterwards, Quindell came under investigation by the UK’s Serious Fraud Office for historic business 
and accounting practices.
FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for 
the full newsletter here.
For commentary on Ashtead, Punch Taverns and Monitise, see  the latest Lombard column here.
Load-Date: June 14, 2017
End of Document
Five tips for travelling at the back of a plane
Five tips for travelling at the back of a plane
 
FT.com
June 14, 2017 Wednesday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 758 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
Travellers whose finance directors or financial circumstances force them to fly at the back of the plane took another 
knock last week. It is one thing for British Airways to offer an inch less legroom to some of its economy passengers 
than budget airline Ryanair does — and to charge for food on short-haul flights. It is another for the Emirates airline 
to look at making passengers pay for its on-board “frills”.
BA boasted of being “the world’s favourite airline” of the late 1980s; Emirates has long since usurped its role as the 
carrier to emulate. But Emirates’ profits plummeted 82 per cent over the past year as a result of an economic 
downturn and political tension in the Gulf and a laptop ban on flights to the US. Like most US and European 
carriers, it is having to cut costs.
When Emirates starts charging for frills, we know that life at the back of the plane has got even nastier. For those in 
first or business class, flying is still bearable, even if BA has stopped putting flowers in the first-class toilets. But it is 
increasingly tough for everyone else.
So how can air travellers make life at the back less awful? Here are five suggestions, developed over the airline 
austerity years.
● Employ the Saturday night ploy. Airlines usually charge less if your trip includes a Saturday night. A premium 
economy round trip that includes a Saturday night is often cheaper than economy flights during the week. 
Five tips for travelling at the back of a plane
Several airlines have premium economy sections. They have two-and-a-half advantages over economy. First, your 
seats are a little roomier, with more leg room. Secondly, premium economy flights give you more frequent-flyer 
points, whose importance for comfort I discuss below.
Another advantage of premium economy is that you usually get some of the perks, such as flight socks or a 
disposable toothbrush and toothpaste, which we used to take for granted in ordinary economy. You also often get 
better headphones. As you can pack your own, superior, socks, toothbrush and headphones in your hand luggage, 
I count this as only half an advantage. 
But the legroom and air miles are worth having if you do not mind the extra day or two away from home. An 
additional advantage is a Sunday spent recovering from the flight and sightseeing.
The extra hotel nights sometimes eat up the price saving, but, if not, most reasonable finance departments can be 
persuaded that a cheaper premium economy ticket is better than a more expensive economy one.
● Study the seats. The seats at the front of the economy section feel less claustrophobic. Against that, the 
armrests are fixed and thicker, making the seats feel more cramped. If you want legroom, the economy seats next 
to the emergency exits have enough to practise place kicking from a sitting position. But not all of them. The ones 
closest to the windows sometimes have a piece of the emergency door that makes them even more cramped than 
those further back. Download an app such as  SeatGuru that gives you information about the comfort of each of the 
seats on your flight. The more frequent-flyer points you have, and the higher up you are on the airlines’ loyalty 
programme, the quicker you can reserve your seat. Do it as soon as you can.
● Never pay for in-air food. Economy airline food has been grim for decades. Having to pay for it adds to the 
insult. Buy your food before you board, or bring it from home. Best of all:
● Use the airline lounge. For those who have longed for admission, airline lounges can disappoint. Quality varies, 
and the lounges are often as crowded as the seating areas outside. But you can have a shower between 
connecting flights, the WiFi is free, and you can avoid the need to eat on the plane by having a hot meal, often 
pretty good, before you board. 
You can pay for lounge access at many airports, but, if you fly enough, you can earn free entry through frequent 
flyer programmes. Some travellers dislike the idea of being tied to one airline, especially if it persistently lets them 
down. But you don’t have to stick to one to earn your frequent-flyer points. 
● Try the alliance partners. You can earn your points by flying on any of the member airlines of one of the 
international networks such as One World and Star Alliance. So you can try a variety of airlines while accumulating 
points with the one you registered with. Even in these frills-cutting times, some airlines in each alliance are far 
better than others. Shop around and encourage the airlines that impose less pain on their economy passengers by 
flying with them.  
 Twitter:  @Skapinker
Load-Date: June 18, 2017
End of Document
Opening Quote: WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels
Opening Quote: WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels
 
FT.com
June 14, 2017 Wednesday 7:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1109 words
Byline: Siona Jenkins
Body
WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels. FT Opening Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your 
early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for the full newsletter here.
WH Smith’s airport shops are about to be trashed. This is not advance warning of a stampede of FT readers 
seeking the Weekend foodie special (dine out for less than £300). Nor a prediction of what can happen if you 
charge holidaymakers a bit much for headphones (£19.99 for some basic plastic versions). No, it is the chief 
executive’s own description of the scene after thousands of budget airline passengers grab the inflight extras their 
tickets exclude. And it is both a sight for sore eyes and music to his ears. Because, with the retailer’s high street 
stores in managed decline, WHSmith’s higher margin travel shops are its one source of profit growth. Half-year 
sales at WH Smith’s rail stations, hospitals and airports were up 10 per cent in the six months to February.
This morning, the trend continued. Total sales in travel outlets – which deliver 60 per cent of group profit – were up 
8 per cent, boosted by 2 per cent of currency benefits. On a like-for-like basis, they were up 5 per cent. Part of the 
rise was down to a continued increase in passenger numbers – Easyjet and Ryanair both said volumes increased 
by around 10 per cent in May. However, WH Smith also attributed it to an ongoing focus on customer service, 
execution, space and category management.
On the high street, however, total sales were down 4 per cent on a like-for-like basis – in line with guidance and a 
strategy of selling less at better margins. Installing post offices in store helped keep customers coming: relocating 
another 58 took the total to 165.
Opening Quote: WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels
But it was not enough to generate an increase in overall overall group sales: with the high street down, these came 
in flat on a like-for-like basis.
Biffa’s business is already trash… in that the newly floated company specialises in waste management for retailers, 
industrial companies and local authorities. And its maiden full-year numbers brush up quite well.
Revenues of £990.4m were 6.8 per cent up on the prior year – in line with forecasts. Net Revenues rose 8.3 per 
cent to £898.8m, mainly driven by growth in the industrial and commercia, municipal and resource recovery & 
treatment divisions.
As a result, underlying operating profit rose 18.1 per cent to £73.8m, thanks to a widening of the margin from 6.7 
per cent to 7.5 per cent. At the same time, year end net debt was kept below below 2 time earnings – at £246.1m.
Chief executive Ian Wakelin hinted at further acquisitions to boost growth and operational efficiency: “As a fully 
integrated, market-leading waste management services provider, we have the scale and the network to act as a 
consolidator in a highly fragmented market place. In the year we completed five acquisitions and have a strong 
pipeline of acquisition opportunities. At the same time, we have continued to take actions to improve the efficiency 
of our operations, get closer to our customers and leverage new opportunities for investment.”
He also said the group had signed a partnership deal with Covanta, a developer and operator of energy recovery 
facilities to explore the development of two large-scale plants in Leicestershire and Cheshire.
And, finally, broker Charles Stanley appears to have put a period of rubbish performance behind it. This morning, 
the company said it had swept back into profit from a £0.3m loss last year. It reported an £8.8m profit for the year 
ending in March, and expressed confidence that it could ride out any impact from the UK’s exit from the EU.
Chief executive Paul Abberley said:
“Our strategy is now in place with improved governance, better cost control, a revised remuneration policy and 
clear plans to grow each of our client servicing divisions… Our aim remains to become the UK’s leading wealth 
manager by 2020.”
For commentary on Ashtead, Punch Taverns and Monitise, see  the latest Lombard column here.
Beyond the Square Mile
Asian markets broadly took their cue from Wall Street following record highs for both the S&P 500 and Dow Jones 
Industrial Average on Tuesday. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 was up 0.9 per cent and Tokyo’s Topix was 0.2 per cent 
higher. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng dipped 0.2 per cent. In China the Shanghai Composite was down 0.6 per 
cent while the Shenzhen Composite slipped 0.1 per cent.
Thedollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of peers, was flat at 96.979. The Japanese yen was 
unmoved at ¥110.05.
The Canadian dollar continued to strengthen against the US dollar following comments on Monday by the senior 
deputy governor at the Bank of Canada that were viewed as increasing the likelihood the central bank would raise 
rates later this year. The loonie was 0.2 per cent stronger at C$1.3218, a four-month high against the dollar.
The UK pound was 0.1 per cent weaker against the dollar at $1.2745 after strengthening 0.8 per cent on Tuesday.
Oil prices fell after a report showed output from Opec countries rose in May, despite an agreement from the cartel 
to cut production. Benchmark Brent crude fell 0.8 per cent to $48.31 a barrel and US benchmark West Texas 
Intermediate slipped 1 per cent to $46.00 a barrel.
Gold was up 0.2 per cent at $1,269.53 an ounce.
Intraday
Opening Quote: WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels
In the US, futures tip the S&P 500 to open flat when trading gets underway in New York.
Corporate earnings reports out today include Purplebricks, WS Atkins and Charles Stanley.
The economic calendar for Wednesday is structured for maximum efficiency (all times London):
07.00: Germany consumer price index (second reading)
09.30: UK unemployment rate, weekly earnings
10.00: eurozone employment and industrial production
The markets at 08:00
Asian markets
Nikkei 225 down -15.23 (-0.08%) at 19,884
Topix down -1.74 (-0.11%) at 1,592
Hang Seng down -30.06 (-0.12%) at 25,822
US markets
S&P 500 up +10.96 (+0.45%) at 2,440
DJIA up +92.80 (+0.44%) at 21,328
Nasdaq up +44.90 (+0.73%) at 6,220
European markets
Eurofirst 300 up +7.14 (+0.47%) at 1,528
FTSE100 down -11.43 (-0.15%) at 7,500
CAC 40 unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 5,262
Dax unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 12,765
Currencies
€/$ 1.12 (1.12)
$/¥ 110.02 (110.05)
£/$ 1.28 (1.28)
€/£ 0.8773 (0.8787)
Commodities ($)
Brent Crude (ICE) down -0.39 at 48.33
Light Crude (Nymex) down -0.39 at 46.07
100 Oz Gold (Comex) up +2.30 at 1,268
Copper (Comex) unchanged 0.00 at 2.59
10-year government bond yields (%)
US 2.21%
Germany 0.26%
CDS (closing levels)
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe at 19.9bp
Markit iTraxx Europe -1.22bps at 57.13bp
Markit iTraxx Xover -3.85bps at 236.29bp
Markit CDX IG -1.26bps at 58.76bp
Sources: FT, Bloomberg, Markit
Load-Date: June 14, 2017
Opening Quote: WH Smith thankful for trashy airport novels
End of Document
Ryanair steps up focus on European routes
Ryanair steps up focus on European routes
 
FT.com
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 223 words
Byline: Kate Allen
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has seen a 6 per cent rise in profits and announced a fresh push into European markets as it 
shifts focus away from the UK as the Brexit negotiations get underway.
Ryanair generated €1.3bn post-tax profits in the year to March 31 from revenues of €6.6bn, the company said on 
Tuesday. Revenues were up by 2 per cent.
The company aims to “capitalise on the many growth opportunities elsewhere in Europe” while it “continues to pivot 
our growth away from the UK in 2017 and 2018″ while facing a lack of “certainty or direction” about what Britain’s 
future relationship with the EU will look like, it said in a statement.
Its European expansion plan will see Ryanair seek to encourage regional tourism by cutting the cost of short-haul 
travel within Europe, sourcing more hotel accommodation for passengers, stepping up its marketing efforts for 
European destinations and seeking to develop more off-peak city break travel.
Ryanair also reported record bookings for its summer 2017 schedules.
Ryanair’s Kenny Jacobs said it was a “golden growth opportunity” for European tourism as travellers’ demand 
shifted away from Turkish and North African resorts.
However the company warned that “investors should be wary” of its forecast 8 per cent net profit growth for the 
2018 financial year, given the uncertainties surrounding Brexit.
Ryanair steps up focus on European routes
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair : restricted leg room
Ryanair: restricted leg room
 
FT.com
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 12:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 393 words
Body
Michael O’Leary is a cheap guy, and he does not mind hearing that from others. Ryanair, the airline he runs, is built 
on keeping costs low and passing on savings in the form of lower fares. Oddly, investors have to pay a high 
valuation to own Ryanair shares. The question is not whether the premium is deserved but whether the price can 
travel much higher.
Perennial cost-cutting has enabled Ryanair to squeeze out profits even when sales dip. Tuesday’s full-year 
resultsprovided evidence of this. Revenues grew €22m less than expected, up by 2 per cent. Even so, net income 
grew. Better, earnings per share climbed 14 per cent. Share buybacks made the difference. The airline prefers this 
manner of returning money to its shareholders. It has bought back 22 per cent of its shares since 2008, at an 
average price of €8.50. That looks cheap compared with €18 today. Yet Ryanair has paid an increasingly high 
valuation for its own shares in the past couple of years. Although it has committed to purchase another €600m of 
stock this year, expect fewer buybacks in future if the shares stay dear. 
They are starting to look that way now. Consider ratios of price to earnings or enterprise value to earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. On both measures, the valuation is cruising near a five-year high. 
Relative to earnings, it trades two-thirds higher than the MSCI European Airlines index. Only the shares of Qantas 
and Aeroflot have outrun it in the past three years. Yet the low-cost carrier achieves its industry-leading operating 
profit margins of 23 per cent without the benefit of more lucrative long-haul routes.
Pricing, as Mr O’Leary will tell you, is all about what the market will bear. Ryanair expects fares to fall again this 
year, but will recover some of that via other charges. At 27 per cent of sales, ancillary revenues span everything 
from charging for seat reservations to booking hotels through Ryanair’s website. The latter, the company gleefully 
Ryanair : restricted leg room
reminds us, is a product of in-house IT efforts. British Airways has outsourced its to, let us say, mixed reviews. The 
plan is to lift these ancillary sales to 30 per cent. 
Mr O’Leary, like a famous showman before him, sees a silver lining in every crowd. The market will want to see that 
coined into profit before paying even more for a ticket. 
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair lifts profits despite slashing fares to stimulate demand
Ryanair lifts profits despite slashing fares to stimulate demand
 
FT.com
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 8:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 414 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has lifted full-year profits despite slashing fares to stimulate demand in the wake of terrorist attacks and 
Britain’s decision to leave the EU.
Europe’s biggest low-cost airline posted a €1.32bn post-tax profit for the financial year ending March 31, which was 
at the lower end of its guidance of between €1.3bn to €1.35bn but in line with analysts’ expectations. Revenues 
rose 2 per cent to €6.6bn.
It comes after Ryanair had previouslylowered its full-year forecast of €1.37bn to €1.42bn last year because of the 
impact of the weak pound following the vote on Brexit.
European airlines have been struggling with economic uncertainty  unleashed by Brexit, the effect of the terror 
attacks in the EU and a glut of new capacity that is pushing down fares. 
Ryanair said it cut average fares by 13 per cent over the year to €41, which helped it attract a record 120m 
passengers, up from a previous estimate of 116m.
But there have been signs of a wider turnround in recent weeks, with the major legacy carriers — International 
Airlines Group, Lufthansa and Air France-KLM — and UK-based low-cost airline easyJet, reporting increased 
demand for tickets and improving pricing. 
Ryanair gave a cautious outlook for the year ahead, saying profits would rise to between €1.4bn to €1.45bn, as it 
warned about the risk of any negative Brexit developments or a repeat of last year’s terrorist attacks. 
Ryanair lifts profits despite slashing fares to stimulate demand
The low-cost airline said it expected full-year average fares for this year to decline by between 5 per cent to 7 per 
cent on the back of the weak pound and continuing excess capacity in Europe, an improvement from a decline of 
13 per cent last year. It expects to fly 130m passengers this year, a growth of 8 per cent, but down from the 13 per 
cent growth in 2016-17. 
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, said the airline was happy with its performance in 2017 despite difficult trading 
conditions. “We reacted to these challenges by improving our customer experience, and stimulating growth with 
lower fares,” he said. 
The airline also announced plans for a €600m share buyback to be completed by the end of October. Since 2008, 
Ryanair has returned about €5.4bn to investors through buybacks and special dividends. 
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said while guidance for this year is a “touch light” of current consensus, it was not 
enough to cause concern given Ryanair’s record of conservative forecasts. “Average fares are seen remaining 
under pressure, but less so than in 2017,” he added.
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
British Airways under pressure to explain source of power surge
British Airways under pressure to explain source of power surge
 
FT.com
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 12:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 574 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Nathalie Thomas
Body
 British Airways came under pressure on Tuesday to explain the source of the power surge that the company says 
triggered the computer system failure that sparked three days of travel chaos and left more than 75,000 passengers 
stranded worldwide. 
As shares of the parent company International Airlines Group fell after the UK market opened following a three-day 
bank holiday weekend, electricity companies denied there were any issues with networks that serve Heathrow and 
the surrounding area. 
Shares in IAG dropped 4 per cent before recovering. They were 2.85 per cent lower at 596.5p at lunchtime in 
London. 
BA’s operations finally regained a semblance of normality on Tuesday at both Gatwick and Heathrow, the two 
airports that were at the centre of the disruption after the computer system crash on Saturday. 
Rival European group Ryanair said it had back-up systems in place to deal with such problems. Kenny Jacobs, 
chief marketing officer, said Ryanair had IT systems in three locations around Europe and if one went down, there 
were back-up systems at each of its three centres in Dublin, Poland and Madrid.
“That’s what most businesses would do. We take IT very seriously,” he said. 
Ryanair, which reported financial resultson Tuesday, said it had seen a surge in bookings over the weekend 
because of BA's problems.
British Airways under pressure to explain source of power surge
Analysts have estimated the BA disaster, which forced the airline to cancel all flights out of London on Saturday, 
could cost the company as much as €100m. Severe disruption continued throughout the weekend, particularly at 
Heathrow.
Energy experts suggested BA’s problems could have been at a data centre or with BA’s internal electricity wiring. 
Companies often use data centres around the world.
On Monday, Alex Cruz, BA’s chief executive, blamed the IT failure on an “exceptional” power surge, which he said 
had been so strong that it also disabled the airline’s back-up system. 
The statement has left many in the aviation and energy industry confused. 
A spokesperson for Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks said “there is no record of a ‘power surge’ on its 
network” in the Harmondsworth area — where BA’s headquarters is situated — on Saturday morning. 
A spokesperson for UK Power Networks, whose electricity networks cover Heathrow airport itself, also said there 
were “no issues at all”.
Mr Cruz has refused to resign over the scandal, telling the BBC: “I don’t think it would make much of use [sic] for 
me to resign.” 
Willie Walsh, head of IAG, has so far stayed silent on the chaos.
The affair has shone an unfavourable spotlight on efforts to slash costs at BA, which includes its decision last year 
to outsource several hundred IT jobs to specialists supplied by India’s Tata Consultancy Services. 
BA has vehemently denied the outsourcing move was linked to the weekend’s problems.
Aviation and brand experts have warned that BA now has a big job on its hands to recover its reputation with 
passengers.
BA said it was intending to operate a “full” flight schedule at both Heathrow and Gatwick on Tuesday but added that 
it was still working to return lost luggage to passengers who were separated from their bags during the weekend’s 
chaos.
-------------
Andrew Hill: BA lacks leaders and resources to tackle crisis
BA cost cuts test resilience of flag carrier’s brand
Lex: IAG/British Airways — high flyer, high wire
-------------
Letter in response to this article:
BA would not compensate me for missing medication
Load-Date: June 17, 2017
End of Document
BA ’s reputation on line as cost cuts questioned
BA’s reputation on line as cost cuts questioned
 
FT.com
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 5:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 786 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Tobias Buck
Body
British Airways chief executive Alex Cruz made his name in his native Spain, where he was largely seen to have 
done a good job at the country’s low-cost carrier Vueling. 
His time in the UK is not looking as promising as doubts intensify over his handling of BA’s disastrous computer 
crash that stranded 75,000 passengers over the bank holiday weekend. 
Aviation analysts believe theIT outagethat led to a weekend of chaos that is expected to cost as much as €100m 
will put pressure on Mr Cruz and the management of International Airlines Group, parent of BA, to address 
deteriorating passenger views on BA. 
“I think this will refocus management on how important BA is in the IAG Group,” says Robin Byde, analyst at Cantor 
Fitzgerald. “They’ve had a lot going on in the last few years — acquiring Aer Lingus, improving Iberia — but BA is 
really the important part of the business.”
Although investor reaction was relatively calm with shares only slightly down, Mr Byde thinks management will 
“undoubtedly” have to revisit cost-cutting plans because of the reputational risk to BA’s branding as a premium 
airline. Shares in IAG fell 1.38 per cent to 605.5p.
Mr Cruz spent time at low-cost carrier Clickair and then, after the company’s merger with rival Vueling, as head of 
the combined group. 
BA ’s reputation on line as cost cuts questioned
The Basque father of four quickly gained a reputation for pushing aggressively into new markets and destination, 
and for his evident determination to apply the lessons of low-cost giant Ryanair to the staid Iberian market.
“Everyone thought he was excellent,” says a consultant who worked with the airline industry at the time. “The big 
question was always whether he could lead a group as big as BA. The scale is totally different, and the business 
concept is different.”
Whether Mr Cruz is the right man for the job has now come under scrutiny following last weekend’s customer 
services disaster. 
While he was largely seen to have done a good job during his time at Vueling, Mr Cruz’s departure to BA last April 
came just before the Spanish low-cost carrier suffered huge operational problems in the summer. 
“The summer operations meltdown at Vueling was due to over scheduling aircraft and leaving no slack for bad 
weather or events. French Air Traffic Control strikes then caused chaos which they seemed to struggle to recover 
from,” says one city analyst. 
Vueling went from being the favourite child in the IAG family with the highest margins in 2014, to the airline with the 
lowest margins last year. 
As Mr Cruz was still chief executive of Vueling when the summer timetable was set, analysts point out he was 
responsible for growing the airline too “aggressively”. 
“Mr Cruz got promoted out of trouble,” says one City analyst, who wished to remain anonymous. Another adds: 
“Just as he moved over to BA Vueling blew up last summer.”
For this reason, Mr Cruz was the only one of 12 senior executives at IAG not to receive a bonus for 2016. 
For now, it appears that Mr Cruz, who has refused to resign over the scandal, will be the man faced with the task of 
repairing the damage done to BA over the short-term. A spokeswoman for IAG told the FT on Tuesday that Mr Cruz 
has got the “full support” of IAG chief executive Willie Walsh, noting that Mr Cruz could not have prevented the IT 
glitch. 
Several analysts agree that there is no need for heads to roll over the debacle. “What’s that going to solve? Is it 
actually going to make anything better to change the person at the top or would it be better to have the same 
person enforce change with the benefit of painful lessons?” says Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum. 
Instead, aviation experts believe BA need to explain the source of the power surgethat the company says triggered 
the computer system failure, now that flights have returned to normal at Heathrow and Gatwick. 
On Monday, Mr Cruz blamed the IT failure on an “exceptional” power surge, which he said had been so strong that 
it also disabled the airline’s back-up system. 
The statement has left many in the aviation and energy industry confused. 
Electricity companies denied there were any issues with networks that serve Heathrow and the surrounding area. 
Low-cost rival Ryanair revealed that it had several back-up systems in place to deal with any similar problems. 
“That’s what most businesses would do. We take IT very seriously,” says Kenny Jacobs, chief marketing officer at 
Ryanair. 
“There is no doubt the incident is going to sharpen attention at BA on operational resilience,” says Mr Khoo. 
Additional reporting by Nathalie Thomas
-------------
Andrew Hill: BA lacks leaders and resources to tackle crisis
BA ’s reputation on line as cost cuts questioned
BA cost cuts test resilience of flag carrier’s brand
Lex: IAG/British Airways — high flyer, high wire
Load-Date: June 2, 2017
End of Document
BA lacks the leaders and the resources to tackle a crisis
BA lacks the leaders and the resources to tackle a crisis
 
FT.com
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 2:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 690 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
There are two types of redundancy. One involves laying off staff, the other involves laying on resources.
The highly disruptive IT failures at  British Airways have exposed a simple truth: airlines are now far better at the 
first than they are at the second.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of International Airlines Group, BA’s parent, and Alex Cruz, who became the airline’s 
chief executive last year, are guilty of allowing that gap to widen.
Both are known merchants of austerity. Their cost-cutting backgrounds — at Aer Lingus and Vueling, BA’s budget 
sister, respectively — recommended them for their positions defending the British flag carrier’s margins against low-
cost competition.
At roughly the same moment that low-cost airlines such as EasyJet and Ryanair realised they could add some 
passenger perks, BA set about trimming its frills. Better than any customer poll or staff engagement survey, the 
weekend’s chaos has revealed how much customer goodwill the airline sacrificed in the process.
This is where having different types of people in the top jobs becomes important. Airlines are prone to more factors 
beyond their control than almost any other customer-centric business. Stuff happens, not just IT outages (versions 
of which have affected Southwest, Delta and BA in the past year), but storms, mechanical failures, terror threats, 
ash clouds, “involuntary denials of boarding” and, heaven forbid, accidents. Somebody needs to anchor the public 
response after such upsets.
BA lacks the leaders and the resources to tackle a crisis
If you set aside Mr Cruz’s natural reluctance not to submit to a public stoning before establishing the detail of what 
had happened, he said some of the right things in his direct-to-YouTube videos over the weekend. In  the first, 
which went online on Saturday, he said he was extremely sorry — always the right start — and promised to speed 
refunds to passengers.
But his explanation of what went wrong was, and remains, hopelessly sketchy and his tone was unconvincing. What 
is more, BA clearly lacked sufficient resources to recover from its IT outage and fulfil its passenger promises 
afterwards. In  the latest video, Mr Cruz tells passengers whose luggage is still marooned somewhere in the BA 
system that “we have your bags and will look after them”. His reassurance has all the cold conviction of a kidnapper 
submitting a ransom demand.
When Mr Cruz quits — and he will, maybe not this week, or even this year, but quietly, at some future point when 
the outrage has died down — the airline should seriously reconsider the job specification for his replacement.
For years, bosses of the old flag-carrying airlines have been hired on the basis that “their whole life is about how to 
squeeze an extra mile out of a gallon of jet fuel”, in the words of one brand consultant.
Of course, some of the hysteria about BA’s failings is an over-reaction. Security concerns and financial pressures 
have turned airports and air travel, even on a good day, into a barely tolerable experience. Passengers are quick to 
crack. But precisely for that reason, airline chief executives, as even Michael O’Leary of Ryanair has grasped, need 
to have skills that go beyond a good eye for an uncontrolled overhead. They need to be able to connect with 
passengers. They need to be ready to handle the inevitable emergencies with aplomb, conviction and empathy. 
And, critically, they need to be prepared and have the resources available to swamp any problems with on-the-
ground customer care and compensation.
When Mr Cruz  finally took questions from a real journalist, rather than a tame, furrow-browed interviewer from the 
BA communications team, he was asked whether lay-offs and outsourcing had hampered the response at Heathrow 
airport. “There are no redundancies . . . taking place around this particular hardware live operational systems 
resilience set of infrastructure,” he said, lapsing into management-speak.
In fact, BA could have cushioned itself from this crisis if it had benefited from a little more redundancy — the 
second, rather than the first type — and had hired a chief executive for customer-friendliness as much as for cost-
effectiveness.
andrew.hill@ft.com
Load-Date: June 2, 2017
End of Document
IAG / British Airways : high flyer, high wire
IAG/British Airways: high flyer, high wire
 
FT.com
May 29, 2017 Monday 4:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 415 words
Body
British Airways had no right to mess up the journeys of many thousands of Britons during a holiday period. That 
prerogative has traditionally belonged to striking French air traffic controllers. Nevertheless, the flagship company of 
International Airlines Group cancelledan estimated 600 flights to and from London airports over the bank holiday 
weekend. The debacle suggests cost cuts by Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, have passed through fat into 
flesh and bone.
The group, never guilty of public oversharing, has shed little light on its systems breakdown. A power failure has 
been blamed. This is puzzling. Most businesses with critical IT have back-up generators for their back-up 
generators. A similar meltdown at Delta Air Lines in the US last April put rivals on notice to check their own 
vulnerabilities.
Delta was left with costs of $100m. BA faces a bill for the same amount in euros, according to Citigroup estimates. 
That represents a modest 5.2 per cent of forecast 2017 profits before tax, hence a dip of just 2.4 per cent in IAG’s 
dual-listed shares in Madrid on Monday.
The stock would deserve to fall further if glitches recur. RBC warns of potential for an “annuity cost”. Helpfully so: 
deferential stock market analysts tend to keep mum when “one-off” failures are an annual event at powerful 
companies. Last year, a glitch grounded Vueling, a low-cost IAG airline where BA boss Alex Cruz previously 
worked.
A common delusion of all market watchers is that cost cutting costs nothing beyond such explicit expenses as 
redundancy payments. In reality, there is always an efficient frontier between costs and profits. The irascible Mr 
IAG / British Airways : high flyer, high wire
Walsh has done a good job in reducing legacy overheads at BA and Iberia, two flag carriers heavily burdened with 
them. The operating margin has risen from nothing to 11.8 per cent since the 2011 merger. 
Improvements will now be harder to extract without damaging competitiveness. The margin is only expected to 
widen another percentage point by 2019, according to S&P CIQ estimates. This depends on sales growing steadily. 
BA’s protected slots at Heathrow are a help. The growth of low-cost rivals such as Ryanair is a hindrance. Walking 
a high wire, Mr Walsh cannot regularly afford to strand his customers, even if Mr Cruz ends up carrying the can for 
it this time. 
Lex welcomes debate with readers. Do you think BA’s systems glitch could be symptomatic of deeper problems? 
Please tell us what you think in the comments section below.
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
UK election, Modi visits Germany , Ryanair results
UK election, Modi visits Germany, Ryanair results
 
FT.com
May 28, 2017 Sunday 9:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 963 words
Body
Monday
UK election TV debates
The UK general election campaign is back in full swing after a break following the Manchester attack. Sky News 
interviews both Prime Minister Theresa May and Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn at 8.30pm, although the format will 
stop short of head-to-head debates. The two will also appear in a BBC Question Time special chaired by David 
Dimbleby on Friday at 8.30pm. 
Mrs May is likely to face questions on her social care policy U-turn and the lack of detailed costings in the Tory 
manifesto, while Mr Corbyn is expected to be quizzed on tax rises and his relations with the IRA before the 
Northern Ireland peace agreement. 
Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat leader, and Paul Nuttall, UK Independence party leader, will appear on BBC 
programmes on Sunday, as will the Scottish National party’s Nicola Sturgeon and Plaid Cymru’s Leanne Wood. 
Background briefing
UK Election Countdown: keeping calm and carrying on
Modi visits Germany
UK election, Modi visits Germany , Ryanair results
Narendra Modi, the Indian prime minister, begins a two-day trip for talks with Angela Merkel, German chancellor. 
The two are expected to discuss trade, investment, energy and defence, with India looking to arm its military with a 
new generation of imported weapons.
India has allowed a string of bilateral investment treaties with European countries to lapse as it seeks better terms 
from a pan-European trade agreement. EU officials warn that such an approach risks harming foreign investment 
into India, though New Delhi points out this hit a high last year.
German ministers will also hold separate meetings with their Indian counterparts. Mr Modi flies on to Spain on 
Tuesday evening.
Background briefing
Narendra Modi’s economic adviser tells how India is catching up with China
Tuesday
Ryanair full-year results
Analysts expect Ryanair to report a full-year net profit of about €1.3bn, a rise of about 6 per cent from last year. A 
positive outlook by the no-frills carrier is likely to result in consensus estimates of €1.45bn full-year net profit for 
2018 being upgraded.
Brexit uncertainty, EU terror attacks and a glut of new capacity have weighed on European airlines, but there are 
signs of a wider turnround, with major legacy carriers International Airlines Group, Lufthansa and Air France-KLM, 
and UK-based low-cost airline easyJet, reporting higher ticket demand and improved pricing.
Ryanair has pushed ahead with expansion on the basis that its low cost base will withstand declining fares better 
than its rivals. 
Background briefing
Air France-KLM signals hopes for recovering demand
Wednesday
UK consumer figures
The British Retail Consortium shop price index and Bank of England consumer credit figures will give investors an 
idea of how the cheaper pound is effecting UK consumers.
BRC data will show how fast shop prices are rising in response to higher import costs. In April the index was 0.5 per 
cent lower than last year, suggesting retailers were reluctant to pass on higher costs due to fears of losing market 
share. If the index nudges into positive territory in May, it points to a further squeeze on living standards.
BoE figures will reflect how consumers responded to lower purchasing power in April. Analysts expect mortgage 
approvals and consumer borrowing to remain at about the same level as last month, despite a recent survey from 
the Bank suggesting lending conditions tightened for the first time in six years during the first three months of 2017. 
Background briefing
Easter brings ‘brief respite’ for UK retailers, says industry body
European data
UK election, Modi visits Germany , Ryanair results
Cyclical recovery in the eurozone goes from strength to strength, suggesting the region has left the worst of the 
economic crisis behind. Business confidence is strong while unemployment, though still too high, is at its lowest 
level in almost eight years. 
Eurostat’s latest unemployment figures are expected to show April’s rate remaining close to the 9.5 per cent level in 
May. Markit’s final readings for the purchasing managers’ index for May on Thursday are expected to confirm 
business activity and corporate confidence is at its highest level for six years.
Background briefing
Eurozone recovery should be let free to run
Metro Q2 results
Investors will focus on Metro AG’s results for the three months to the end of March for signs of progress on its 
planned demerger. Dissident shareholders have challenged the move but the German retail conglomerate expects 
to complete by the middle of the year. 
Progress in Russia — a fiercely competitive market for Metro’s cash and carry and consumer electronics 
businesses — will be closely watched. Metro’s domestic fortunes will also be scrutinised, along with the 
development of its online business.
In the same period last year — which Metro counts as its second quarter — the German group posted a net loss of 
€53m from revenues of €13.57bn. This time around analysts are expecting a loss of 13 cents a share on revenues 
of €13.78bn, according to Bloomberg.
Background briefing
Metro seeks higher valuation by splitting into two
Thursday
SpaceX blast off
The SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket’s trip to the International Space Station, under a $4.2bn contract from Nasa, has 
become a routine resupply mission.
But Elon Musk’s company needs more launches to bring down costs to make space easily accessible for private 
companies. The launch, from Cape Canaveral in Florida, is only SpaceX’s sixth of the year, about the same as 
2016 at this stage, before a disastrous launch-pad explosion halted the schedule for four months.
This launch will be the first of four scheduled for June as SpaceX tries to up the pace of flights. The company is also 
due in the third quarter to test the Falcon Heavy, the rocket SpaceX hopes to use to put humans into space.
Background briefing
United Launch Alliance chief plays down reusable rockets
Load-Date: May 28, 2017
End of Document
Wizz Air: flying high
Wizz Air: flying high
 
FT.com
May 25, 2017 Thursday 11:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 345 words
Body
Technology companies often prioritise growth and market share over profits;  relatively easy in an industry that is 
asset-light and has no problem attracting investment. It is trickier in aviation. Yet Wizz Air has managed it well, and 
is not finished yet.
The UK-listed airline expects it will grow capacity by 23 per cent in its next fiscal year. That compares with 8-9 per 
cent at Ryanair and easyJet, and static or declining capacity at legacy airlines. Such rapid growth would usually 
have investors worried, either because it will strain the balance sheet (as with Norwegian, another low-cost airline 
with ambitious expansion plans) or reduce profitability (as at easyJet, where unit revenues are falling). Yet Wizz 
said on Thursday that it expects revenues per available seat kilometre to rise slightly over the year to March 2018, 
versus City forecasts of a fall. 
Two key factors have helped Wizz grow quickly. One is its focus on central and eastern Europe, markets that are 
relatively under-penetrated and growing rapidly. The former Yugoslav republics of Serbia, Macedonia and Bosnia 
—  Wizz is the biggest operator in all three — are forecast to grow at 3 per cent or more in coming years. It is also 
structured to minimise costs, with an operating base in low-cost Budapest and a domicile in low-tax Switzerland. On 
most levels, costs are comparable to those of Ryanair, the market leader.
One exception is cost of ownership. Wizz leases planes, which reduces capital expenditure but raises operating 
expenses. As it grows, it will have more clout with plane makers. It should use it, and its €900m of net cash, to buy 
rather than lease planes. 
Growing quickly carries risks. Profit guidance for fiscal 2017 was downgraded in February. But Wizz shares, up 9 
per cent on Thursday on the upgraded forecasts and almost back to their pre-Brexit referendum levels, reflect that. 
Wizz Air: flying high
Some discount to more established peers is deserved; there is no dividend yet, for instance. But if the company 
continues to deliver, expect that discount to close.
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: May 26, 2017
End of Document
Wizz Air shares jump after unveiling growth plans
Wizz Air shares jump after unveiling growth plans
 
FT.com
May 25, 2017 Thursday 4:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 408 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley and Mehreen Khan in London
Body
Wizz Air, the budget airline, said on Thursday that demand for travel to and from UK had remained strong since the 
Brexit vote as it outlined ambitious growth plans following “challenging conditions” in 2016-17.
Shares in Wizz jumped almost 12 per cent, to £21.77, their highest level since it took a stock marketing listing in 
London in 2015.
Budapest-based  Wizz, which is focused on flying in central and eastern Europe, said  to €246m in the year to 
March 31.
The company said it was targeting a net profit of €250m-€270m in 2017-18, when it aims to carry almost 30m 
passengers, an increase well in excess of 20 per cent compared with 2016-17.
Wizz is one of a relatively new breed of smaller budget airlines that are providing competition for larger low-cost 
carriers led by Ryanair and easyJet. 
Much of the European airline industry had a tough 2016, with terror attacks on the continent curbing demand and 
carriers cutting fares after expanding their fleets.
In February Wizz  cut its profit target for 2016-17, blaming falling fares and operational disruption due to severe 
winter weather in key markets.
Wizz Air shares jump after unveiling growth plans
Jozsef Varadi, Wizz chief executive, said the trading environment in 2016-17 had been one of “very low fares and 
increasing fuel prices”. But he expressed confidence in Wizz’s business model, adding growth would “continue to 
be a top priority for us” in 2017-18.
Average fare per passenger fell 8 per cent to €65.73 in 2016-17 but revenue increased 9.9 per cent to €1.6bn, 
reflecting a 19 per cent rise in the number carried to 23.8m.
In July last year, Wizz responded to the UK’s Brexit vote the previous month by  halving its proposed capacity 
growth on British routes.
The company, which is due to open its first operating base in the UK at Luton airport next month, said: “Despite the 
UK’s decision to leave the European Union . . . there are no signs of demand weakness on routes to/from the UK.” 
The fall in the value of sterling since the Brexit vote had reduced revenue by about €17m in 2016-17, said Wizz, 
adding this was absorbed by its “large and diversified route network”.
Underlying net profit rose 0.6 per cent to €225.3m. Its reported net profit was bolstered by €18.8m of financial 
income, partly relating to a one-off gain from hedging of fuel costs.
Oliver Sleath, analyst at Barclays, said Wizz’s summer outlook was “strong”. “After a winter blip, results like today’s 
demonstrate the strength of Wizz’s business model,” he added.
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Sun shines on Tui as broker praises holiday group’s ‘breadth’
Sun shines on Tui as broker praises holiday group’s ‘breadth’
 
FT.com
May 25, 2017 Thursday 2:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 448 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Tui was in demand on Wednesday as travel and tourism operators led the London market higher.
Bernstein analysts repeated “outperform” advice on Tui, which climbed 2.8 per cent to £11.73.
Tui’s breadth “far exceeds that of rival package holiday companies” which “gives it an ability to modernise, vertically 
integrate and expand into growth markets that rivals cannot match,” said Bernstein.
“This remains underappreciated, with consensus not yet reflecting the potential upside from its investment in new 
cruise ships and hotels and the valuation not reflecting the strategic shift away from tour operation towards an asset 
owner.”
Meanwhile, airlines gained after Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary told reporters to expect a “strong set of 
results” next week, though he later backtracked and said the numbers will be “in line with our current guidance”. 
Ryanair was up 2.7 per cent to €17.38, a record high, while EasyJet rose 3.3 per cent to £13.44.
Weaker sterling underpinned the wider market with the FTSE 100 ending up 0.4 per cent, or 29.61 points, at 
7,514.90. That put the index just seven points below last week’s record high.
WPP bounced 1.7 per cent to £17.01, having been under pressure on Tuesday after chief executive Martin Sorrell 
told an investor meeting he could not explain the disconnect between strengthening economic data and weak 
global advertising spend. Liberum, which hosted the meeting, argued that the risk of a slow recovery is already 
more than priced into WPP shares.
Sun shines on Tui as broker praises holiday group’s ‘breadth’
TalkTalk lost 3.2 per cent to 177p on a downgrade to “sell” from Goldman Sachs, which cited signs of increased 
discounting in the UK broadband market. Around 90 per cent of UK homes already have broadband and TalkTalk is 
not significantly cheaper than competitors, so any return to subscriber growth will likely be at the expense of 
profitability, Goldman said.
Acacia Mining plunged 29.7 per cent to 305p after Tanzania’s government accused the miner of under-reporting the 
gold in its concentrate exports by a factor of ten. Tanzania’s President fired his mining minister and dissolved the 
state audit committee while keeping in force a concentrate export ban.
“We see this placing the company’s licence to operate under pressure,” said RBC. “It is possible that Acacia could 
be cleared by any independent investigation, although we think international litigation looks increasingly likely.”
Repairs insurer Homeserve faded 4.5 per cent to 742p after Citigroup and RBC both advised taking profits on 
Tuesday’s results-inspired rally.
Software reseller Softcat was 8.4 per cent lower at 419p on the unexpected news that Martin Hellawell, its chief for 
the past 11 years, intends to step down.
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Brussels softens rules on airport subsidies
Brussels softens rules on airport subsidies
 
FT.com
May 17, 2017 Wednesday 3:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 431 words
Byline: Rochelle Toplensky in Brussels
Body
Brussels has relaxed state aid rules for hundreds of airports in the EU in a move the European Commission hopes 
will boost infrastructure and cut red tape.
The shift in rules for regional airports means that EU governments will no longer have to obtain  commission 
approval before investing in the infrastructure of existing facilities with fewer than 3m passengers a year.
While the 420 airports affected represent 80 per cent of those in the EU, they account for only 13 per cent of air 
traffic.
Margrethe Vestager, competition commissioner, said the changes would save member states time and trouble and 
allow the commission “to focus attention on state aid measures that have the biggest impact on competition in the 
single market”.
While the state aid rules sometimes lead to high-profile confrontations between the commission and member 
states, such as a continuing clash with Ireland over tax treatment for Apple, lower-level investigations can mean 
delays and sometimes cancellations for relatively small projects.
Wednesday’s move is part of the commission’s latest attempt to make the state aid rules more focused, after a 
2014 change that exempted categories including heritage conservation, broadband infrastructure and innovation 
clusters.
Brussels softens rules on airport subsidies
The commission calculates that at present state aid in the EU averages €90bn a year, but that 95 per cent of such 
projects, accounting for €28bn, do not require Brussels’ approval because they fall into exempted categories and 
meet the commission’s criteria.
Despite the most recent change for infrastructure spending, member states are still barred under EU rules from 
subsidising operating costs at all but the smallest regional airports. Last November the commission ordered 
Ryanair, HLX and Tuifly to repay €10.7m for illegal subsidies at Klagenfurt airport in Austria.
Both Wizz Air and EasyJet declined to comment on the changes, which Ryanair described as a “matter for the 
airports.”
Norwegian, the world’s sixth largest low-cost carrier, said: “Much of Norwegian’s growth is focused on major 
European airports but we also welcome any steps that encourage investment in Europe’s smaller regional airports, 
as long as it does not lead to higher airport charges resulting in more expensive fares for passengers.”
In Wednesday’s announcement, the commission also relaxed the rules for aid for ports, culture and far-flung 
regions, such as the Canary Islands, the Azores and French Guiana.
Member states will now be able to make public investments of up to €150m in seaports and up to €50m in inland 
ports without seeking commission approval.
Load-Date: May 18, 2017
End of Document
EU eases competition rules for state aid to regional airports
EU eases competition rules for state aid to regional airports
 
FT.com
May 17, 2017 Wednesday 11:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 326 words
Byline: Rochelle Toplensky
Body
Brussels has sliced red tape for state aid to regional airports, opening the way for member states to spruce up 
those just-a-bus-ride-away terminals so loved by low-cost airlines.
European governments will no longer need to obtain European Commission approval before investing in the 
infrastructure of existing airports that transit less than 3m passengers annually, a change the watchdog hopes will 
encourage investment, growth and jobs.
Margrethe Vestager, European Competition Commission, said:
Today’s changes will save them [member states] time and trouble when investing in ports and airports, culture 
and the EU’s outermost regions, whilst preserving competition. They also allow the Commission to focus 
attention on state aid measures that have the biggest impact on competition in the single market, to be ‘big on 
big things and small on small things’ to the benefit of all European citizens
The rule change, announced on Wednesday, will cover 420 EU airports which account for around 80 per cent of all 
airports in the internal market but only 13 per cent of air traffic. The commission has changed the rules because it 
found similar past investments did not impact the internal market or competition.
While more projects will now be exempt, nearly 95 per cent of current state aid measures did not require prior 
commission approval for the spend of €28bn annually. Brussels’ scrutiny has focused on the remaining 5 per cent 
of the projects which invest €62 annually, such as those to bring fast broadband throughout France and a German 
national scheme for wind and solar energy.
EU eases competition rules for state aid to regional airports
The change only allows member states to subsidise operating costs at small regional airports, those with less than 
200,000 passengers a year. Aid reducing operating costs at any larger airports is still a form of illegal state aid. Last 
November the commission ordered Ryanair, HLX and Tuifly to repay €10.7m for illegally subsidised costs at the 
Klagenfurt airport in Austria.
Load-Date: May 17, 2017
End of Document
How a five-day business course changed a life
How a five-day business course changed a life
 
FT.com
May 10, 2017 Wednesday 4:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1125 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick
Body
Pádraig Ó Céidigh has a thing about rabbits — the metaphorical kind.
“You cannot chase two of them at once,” he says, while admitting he has spent much of his life and career “chasing 
absolutely loads — often other people’s as well as my own”.
A serial entrepreneur, politician, solicitor and former teacher, Ó Céidigh is best known as the former owner of Aer 
Arann, the Irish airline that almost went bust in 2010 amid sky-high fuel costs and following a lengthy price war with 
Ryanair.
He left in 2012 after helping to steer the business out of examinership — the Irish version of Chapter 11 bankruptcy 
protection in the US. What followed was an appointment to Ireland’s upper house, the Senate, and a high-profile 
role leading a committee that reported in April on the emotive issue of whether Irish households should pay for 
excessive water use. In his spare time, he is buying up nursing homes.
For Ó Céidigh, however, this portfolio of roles represents a significant concentration of focus compared with what 
he was doing several years ago.
A heart attack in 2012, during which he says “my heart stopped and I truly went over to the other side”, was partly 
the result of overwork. Yet after recovering, he quickly stacked up community and corporate commitments that were 
“all over the place”, he says, ranging from a job on Ireland’s tourism board to seats on the boards of Ireland’s 
national sea fishing body and state broadcaster RTE.
How a five-day business course changed a life
He was clocking 90-hour working weeks when salvation came in the unlikely form of yet another job offer — this 
time to develop a leadership course for YPO, the global chief executives’ association. As was his habit, he said 
“yes, that would be interesting”, he explains.
To understand what he would need to do, he enrolled on the High Performance Leadership programme at IMD, the 
Swiss business school. He says the experience, although it lasted just five and a half days, was to change his life. 
He gained “a deeper perspective on my life and who I am and what I am about”. The few days were pivotal,  Ó 
Céidigh says, because as a result “I am more focused.”
After the course in 2015, he quit his tourism role, the fishing board, RTE and multiple other commitments. The jobs 
were too numerous for him to achieve much, he says, adding: “You cannot make a difference if you are chasing too 
many rabbits.”
When he received a phone call one Friday night last November from Simon Coveney, minister for housing, 
planning, community and local government, who invited him to chair the Oireachtas (parliament) committee on 
water charges, he signed up in the knowledge he could “concentrate primarily on this role and do my absolute best 
to get it right”.
So how did a few days at IMD’s Lausanne campus help the overworked and under-focused Ó Céidigh overhaul his 
work and personal life? It was due to the elements of “psychotherapy and psychology”, he says. “The IMD course 
helped me dig deep into myself and ask myself what is important to me and what I want to achieve.”
The programme, he explains, was not the usual business school fare of “case studies about Sir Alex Ferguson or 
Elon Musk”. Ó Céidigh, whose experience bringing Aer Arann back from the brink is in fact a case study for Harvard 
Business School students, found the IMD experience more about talking than textbooks. “You are your own case 
study,” he says.
Before the course, he says, he had to identify his three biggest successes in life and his three worst failures. He 
also had to write out what he perceived as his timeline, recording his major developmental and turning points and 
how he felt at each.
In Lausanne, small groups of students discussed each other’s timelines. “We broke up into groups of six or seven 
people with a coach who brings everyone through [each student’s] process,” he says, “in what was basically our 
own mentoring group where everyone shares their life stories.”
Ó Céidigh, who taught secondary school for 10 years and also practises mindfulness on a daily basis, found the 
group discussion and introspection enjoyable. More traditional business leaders who spend their time directing and 
assessing others might find it less easy. “It is a really deep dive into yourself,” he says. “Like throwing off all your 
clothes and you are there, stark naked, saying ‘what am I made of now and who do I want to be?’”
None of this will shock participants, however. IMD’s course brochure says it involves “self-awareness and ‘mind’s 
eye’ exercises”.
Something else Ó Céidigh learnt to do on the IMD course was to identify what he calls his “secure base”, which he 
says could be “your family, the key people around you, while there are also people that are destabilising”.
“IMD gets you to look at that in both your personal and your professional life,” he continues. “Both are totally 
interactive, you see. It is all integrated.” 
Last year, Ó Céidigh attended a second short course at IMD, led by the same programme director, George 
Kohlrieser, who besides a solid academic background is a former hostage negotiator. “We were in the mountains in 
Switzerland and took over a smallish family hotel there,” he says of the second course — IMD’s Advanced High 
Performance Leadership programme. “We walked the mountainside and had one-on-one reflective time and one-
on-one coaching.”
How a five-day business course changed a life
After his water committee job, Ó Céidigh says, he will return to acquiring care homes and running Aer Arann 
Islands, a small airline he owns 100 per cent of, which was formerly part of Aer Arann group. He is convinced what 
he learnt at IMD will make him a better manager of the 300 staff he oversees at his businesses because he will now 
have more focus.
He says of running Aer Arann: “I was on top of everything and everyone came to me with their issue. They would 
circumvent delegation and come to me and I would try and help them with things like mortgages and loans,” he 
says. “Someone once went through a separation and I helped her get a solicitor.” He had, he says, “created that 
situation where you allow yourself to run after other people’s rabbits”.
Now, he says, he will help staff identify and nurture their own “secure base”. This, he believes could be a crucial 
management tool — boosting recruitment, retention and productivity.
“I will be trying to strengthen the base in the company so that people are actively part of the growth rather than 
passively part of it, rather than coming in doing their job and going home. I want them to understand they should 
contribute to the company because it is part of their own secure, stable base.”
As for the rabbits, he is determined to let them scamper away. “If your focus is too big and too dispersed, you miss 
things,” he says. “I need to be more into keeping that big picture perspective and now I think I can.”
Load-Date: June 6, 2017
End of Document
Declan Ryan launches low-cost airline in Peru
Declan Ryan launches low-cost airline in Peru
 
FT.com
May 9, 2017 Tuesday 6:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 425 words
Byline: Gideon Long, Andean Correspondent
Body
Irelandia Aviation, the company led by Declan Ryan, son of Ryanair founder Tony Ryan, has made its third foray 
into the Latin American budget airline market with the launch of Air Viva Peru — and a promise to do for Peruvian 
air travel what Ryanair did in Europe.
As the airline’s first commercial flight took off from Lima’s Jorge Chávez airport on Tuesday, bound for Iquitos in the 
Amazon basin, William Shaw, the CEO of Viva Air Peru, said the launch marked “a before and after” for Peruvian 
travellers.
To compete with prices starting from just 60 soles ($18), its rivals have already slashed their fares since the new 
carrier started selling tickets in early April, Air Viva Peru says.
Other airlines and bus companies have complained about the new entrant but Air Viva Peru has presidential 
blessing. The country’s free-market-friendly leader Pedro Pablo Kuczynski was at Tuesday’s launch.
Latam Peru is the dominant airline in the country currently, with a market share of more than 50 per cent.
Budget airlines have not taken off in Latin America in the way they have in Europe and parts of Asia, and it often 
costs five or six times as much to fly in the region as it does over a comparable distance in Europe.
Latin American cities boast few of the secondary airports on which low-cost carriers thrive and, with no EU-style 
single market, airline regulation can often be onerous. 
Declan Ryan launches low-cost airline in Peru
But things are starting to change. 
Irelandia Aviation has already established itself in Colombia with VivaColombia and in Mexico with VivaAerobus. 
The former was set up in Monterrey in 2006 and the latter in Medellín in 2012, and both are modelled on the Ryan 
family’s best-known creation, Ryanair.
The new Peruvian carrier will operate nine routes in 2017, linking Lima with the cities of Arequipa, Chiclayo, Cuzco, 
Iquitos, Piura, Tarapoto and Trujillo. There will also be flights from Arequipa to Cuzco and Tacna.
In Brazil, the US founders of JetBlue launched Azul Linhas Aéreas Brasileiras in 2008 to tap the country’s huge 
domestic air travel potential while in Argentina the founders of Swiss budget airline Flybaboo are due to launch a 
no-frills carrier, Flybondi, later this year.
Volaris, a Mexican low-cost airline, has established itself in the northern hemisphere, serving destinations in the 
United States and Central America as well as its home country.
The airline aims to carry 700,000 passengers in its first year. It reckons its arrival will halve the cost of air travel in 
Peru and boost the overall number of passengers in the country by 40 per cent.
Load-Date: May 10, 2017
End of Document
Seven European pension schemes ditch Ryanair stock
Seven European pension schemes ditch Ryanair stock
 
FT.com
May 7, 2017 Sunday 4:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 872 words
Byline: Madison Marriage
Body
Seven European pension schemes overseeing nearly €300bn of assets have pulled their investments in Ryanair 
due to concerns about high-profile labour disputes involving the budget airline. 
Denmark’s largest pension fund, ATP, and Folksam, the Swedish retirement scheme, are among the large investors 
that have sold their holdings in Ryanair at a time of growing concern about how the airline pays its staff and 
interacts with unions. 
Baillie Gifford, one of the UK’s largest asset managers, and Hermes EOS, the influential adviser to institutional 
investors, have also raised concerns about labour issues with Ryanair in recent months. 
Michael O’Leary, the outspoken chief executive of Ryanair, described the pension funds that have sold their 
holdings as “idiots”, adding: “We don’t pay too much attention to pension funds who have excluded us over labour 
concerns. They are misinformed. We don’t have any labour issues.
“We have excellent relations [with staff], no strikes, and no threat of a strike. Our shares are up 10 per cent year to 
date. If some idiot proxy [adviser to large investors] says don’t invest in Ryanair, frankly we couldn’t care less. We 
are not a sensitive organisation. This is their loss, not ours.” 
Danish pension schemes PKA, Sam, Industriens Pension, PFA and Pension Danmark have also added Ryanair to 
the exclusion lists of companies they will not invest in on ethical grounds. 
Seven European pension schemes ditch Ryanair stock
PKA, Denmark’s fourth-largest pension scheme, which oversees €32bn of assets, said: “We expect all companies 
that PKA invests in to comply with our guidelines for responsible investments, including labour rights. 
“Ryanair has, over the years, had many controversies related to labour rights, recently in Denmark but also in 
France. 
“In combination with issues surrounding freedom of association and collective bargaining, PKA decided to exclude 
Ryanair.”
Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers came under heavy pressure over labour issues in 2015 when a 
Danish court ruled the company needed to sign a collective agreement with local staff over pay or face a blockade 
from trade unionists. 
Ryanair had argued its Copenhagen-based staff should be subject to Irish law. Danish unions claimed this allowed 
the airline to pay its cabin crew half of what staff in Cimber, a local low-cost rival, earned. 
French authorities also fined the airline €9m in 2013 for breaking local labour laws by employing staff on Irish 
contracts at a now-closed base in the south of France. Ryanair  said last week it would seek a refund of €15m in 
taxes and fines from French authorities after the European Court of Justice ruled in favour of A-Rosa, a German 
cruise company, in a similar case. 
A large Ryanair shareholder, speaking on condition of anonymity, said his organisation was “monitoring” its 
holdings in the airline due to concerns about labour practices. 
“They clearly take a different stance from their peers in the airline industry. They are less willing to work through 
unions and with unions. It is increasingly common for staff not to have permanent contracts, and that is one of the 
gripes against Ryanair.” 
But he added that he was encouraged by Ryanair’s improvements in customer service. “We would like to see them 
extend that approach to other stakeholders and show they are looking after their employees. We do believe that 
mishandled ethical issues turn into economic issues,” he said. 
Ryanair continues to fly to Copenhagen, although the company shifted its Copenhagen-based aircraft to Kaunas in 
Lithuania in order to avoid trade union blockades in Denmark. The airline is contesting the Danish ruling at a 
European level. 
Mr O’Leary added: “We have not had a strike in 31 years. We are probably the only airline in Europe that has labour 
policies that are perfectly in line with investor expectations. I couldn’t care less [about the divestments]. We have a 
very supportive shareholder base.” 
Tom Powdrill, responsible investment co-ordinator at the International Transport Workers’ Federation, an 
international organisation that works with 700 transport unions, said the divestments demonstrated investors 
increasingly viewed “employment relations as a source of risk”. 
“Unless Ryanair changes its approach to labour issues, it seems unlikely most funds would reinvest. That would 
require a transformation of how the company thinks and operates,” he said.
Denmark’s Sam, which oversees €39bn of assets, said it put Ryanair on its exclusion list due to the company’s 
“reluctance to engage in formal wage negotiations and follow local collective bargaining agreements. When they 
change their attitude and actions in this respect, they could be included again.”
Folksam, a Swedish scheme that oversees €41bn of assets, added: “For the company to be re-included [in our 
portfolios] it would have to show that it is not against labour rights or union rights.”
PFA, one of Denmark’s largest pension providers, with €60bn of assets under management, said: “PFA has 
followed Ryanair’s business practices with worry, including the working conditions of its employees and, most 
Seven European pension schemes ditch Ryanair stock
recently, the case at the Danish Labour Court. The case illustrates the company’s lack of interest in adapting to 
local conditions and the related risk.”
Load-Date: May 8, 2017
End of Document
Air France - KLM reports resilient start to 2017
Air France-KLM reports resilient start to 2017
 
FT.com
May 4, 2017 Thursday 5:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 178 words
Byline: Alice Woodhouse, Michael Stothard
Body
Air France-KLM said bookings indicated a resilient start to the year thanks to a recovery in demand from 
passengers in Asia and Latin America in the first quarter.
However, the airline reported its operating loss widened to €143m in the first quarter from a €99m loss in the same 
period last year.
Earlier this year the struggling Franco-Dutch airline promised to cut costs and boost passenger capacity in an effort 
to “regain the offensive” in the lucrative long-haul market.
The company said unit cost reduction was on track, down 1.7 per cent.
Air France KLM reported a 5.2 per cent increase in passengers carried during the quarter to 20.9m.
The results come amid turmoil in the industry, with Italian rival Alitalia forced into administration on Tuesday after 
being hobbled by its high cost base and rising competition from low-cost rivals in the European market, especially 
Ryanair.
Speaking to the Financial Times last year, Jean-Marc Janaillac, the group chief executive, warned that if his 
company did not change to be more competitive it would “end up like Alitalia”.
Load-Date: May 4, 2017
Air France - KLM reports resilient start to 2017
End of Document
Flag carrier Alitalia to go on sale in two weeks
Flag carrier Alitalia to go on sale in two weeks
 
FT.com
May 3, 2017 Wednesday 1:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 510 words
Byline: James Politi in Rome
Body
 Alitalia will be put up for sale starting in two weeks with the aim of finding a buyer for the entire airline to stave off 
liquidation, a senior Italian official said.
A day after Alitalia collapsed into administration, Carlo Calenda, the economic development minister, set some 
goals for talks around the airline’s future. 
“Within 15 days the commissioners will be open to expressions of interest,” Mr Calenda said in a radio interview on 
Tuesday. “For us the priority is the sale of the whole company.”
This week, the centre-left government of Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni extended a bridge loan of €600m to keep 
Alitalia afloat for the next six months, but ruled out nationalisation. 
This will give Luigi Gubitosi, Enrico Laghi and Stefano Paleari, the commissioners appointed by the government, 
breathing space to craft a strategy to minimise losses to prevent a grounding of its fleet and to manage the sale. 
There is a deadline on the horizon: Mr Calenda has said the €600m loan would be the “maximum” of state aid on 
offer, which should last for about six months. 
In recent days, there has been growing media speculation about potential buyers, among them Lufthansa, the 
German flag carrier, Ferrovie dello Stato, Italy’s state-owned railway, and Qatar Airways, which has invested in 
Meridiana, another Italian airline. 
Flag carrier Alitalia to go on sale in two weeks
“Any idea is welcome, but the important thing to keep in mind is that Alitalia needs an alliance with a big European 
group,” said Mr Calenda. “The problem is that its scale is too small.” 
Finding a buyer will be a challenge, and acquirers might be scared off by events of recent months. Alitalia was  
forced into administration after employees rejected a deal struck between the unions and management to cut 
salaries, personnel and other costs. 
Big investors, including Etihad of the UAE and UniCredit and Intesa, the Italian banks, then withdrew their support 
for a €2bn financing package they had put on the table. 
Without any assurances on Alitalia’s commitment to cost cuts and a path to a profitable business model, it may be 
hard for any buyer to put money in. 
Concerns for a deterioration in the company’s health could continue, particularly if there is a drop-off of bookings 
from would-be passengers worried that they may be unable to fly. 
In an effort to reassure customers, Alitalia has repeatedly stated that its flight schedule would remain unchanged. 
In the medium term, some analysts say low-cost carriers such as Ryanair, EasyJet, and Vueling in Italy — which 
were among the causes of Italia’s troubles — stand to benefit.  
“A liquidation of Alitalia is now the most realistic scenario, assuming that a search for a buyer is not successful,” 
wrote Sven Reinke, a senior vice-president and airlines analyst at Moody’s, in a note last week. 
“European low-cost carriers . . . have captured substantial market share in Italy in recent years and have developed 
strong networks that connect Italian airports with many European destinations. These airlines will profit from 
Alitalia’s liquidation or further retreat,” he added.
Load-Date: May 8, 2017
End of Document
Alitalia ’s collapse into administration deals blow to Etihad
Alitalia’s collapse into administration deals blow to Etihad
 
FT.com
May 2, 2017 Tuesday 5:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 609 words
Byline: James Politi in Rome
Body
 Alitalia was forced into administration proceedings on Tuesday, marking the collapse of Italy’s flag carrier and a 
serious setback for Etihad, the UAE-based airline that rescued Alitalia from near bankruptcy just three years ago.
The process, which was approved by the Italian government in a short cabinet meeting, is expected to lead to 
Alitalia’s sale or liquidation, raising the prospect that it will follow the path of KLM and Iberia in ending an illustrious 
history as one of Europe’s big standalone airlines. 
After a shareholder meeting on Tuesday, the board of the lossmaking airline unanimously agreed to seek 
bankruptcy approval from Rome, noting the “serious economic and financial situation of the company” and the 
“unfeasibility of finding alternative solutions” quickly.  
The centre-left Italian government, led by prime minister Paolo Gentiloni, said it would provide the carrier with a 
€600m bridging loan that will allow it to operate for about six months or longer, probably until after next year’s 
anticipated Italian elections.
Carlo Calenda, economic development minister, said the €600m was the “maximum” the government could afford. 
He said that administrators would be entrusted with being “open to potential acquirers” and to “guarantee services, 
routes and personnel” while ensuring the government spend the least amount of public money possible. 
But liquidation could be an option once the bridging loan runs out, analysts said. 
Alitalia ’s collapse into administration deals blow to Etihad
The decision to enter administration proceedings caps a sharp reversal in Alitalia’s fortunes since the summer of 
2014, when Etihad took a 49 per cent stake in the Italian airline as part of its drive towards global expansion. 
But since then, it has been hobbled by its high cost base and rising competition from low-cost rivals in the European 
market, especially Ryanair.  
Alitalia adopted an aggressive restructuring plan in March, negotiated with trade unions, but it was rejected by the 
airline’s nearly 12,000 employees in a vote last month. 
This meant that the airline’s main investors, including Italian banks UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, could no longer 
commit themselves to a €2bn financing package to give Alitalia another lease of life.  
Mr Gentiloni’s government has so far ruled out nationalising the airline and returning it to state control, amid polls 
showing that Italians would rather let it collapse. 
The terms of such a government loan have already been the subject of informal talks with the EU competition 
authorities, which would have to make sure it does not violate Brussels’ rules on state aid.  
According to Italian media, Luigi Gubitosi, a former manager of Rai, the Italian state broadcaster, and Enrico Laghi, 
who has served as commissioner at Ilva, the large steel company based in Puglia, were the most likely contenders 
to run Alitalia in the interim period. Alitalia says that its schedule will not be modified for now.  
Despite polls showing that most Italians would favour a folding of Alitalia, rather than any new bailout, the sight of 
several thousand workers in hubs such as Rome and Milan being laid off could be problematic for Mr Gentiloni’s 
government.  
The matter has quickly risen to the top of the political agenda with Matteo Renzi. The former prime minister, who 
was re-elected on Sunday to the helm of the ruling Democratic party, has vowed to come up with a plan to keep 
Alitalia afloat by the middle of the month.
-------------------
Full coverage of Alitalia trouble
Analysis: Etihad pays price for misjudged Alitalia endeavour
Profile: Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo
Lex: Last rites
Analysis: How a piece of paper may seal the fate of Alitalia
Load-Date: May 12, 2017
End of Document
Wizz , Wow and Scoot are no laughing matter for long-haul rivals
Wizz, Wow and Scoot are no laughing matter for long-haul rivals
 
FT.com
April 26, 2017 Wednesday 4:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 754 words
Byline: Tony Barber in London
Body
Don’t hold your breath, but the day will surely arrive when low-cost airlines stop giving themselves monosyllabic 
names straight out of Cartoon Central. Before this happens, though, Scoot, Wow and other upstart carriers may 
well have revolutionised the business and passenger experience of intercontinental travel.
Scoot and Wow Air — to give the Icelandic airline its full name — each launched inaugural flights in 2012: Scoot 
from its Singapore baseto Sydney, and Wow Air from Reykjavik to Paris. With fleets of 10 and 12 aircraft 
respectively, it would be easy to dismiss Scoot and Wow Air as mere hummingbirds in the crowded skies of long-
haul travel. Indeed, the two airlines’ ambitions seem to some sceptics to be absurdly vaulting when measured 
against their size. 
However, former national flag carriers and older low-cost airlines that are in the sights of Scoot and Wow Air would 
do well to resist complacency. In the late 1990s, the then recently founded Ryanair and easyJet were small, too. 
Now Ryanair is Europe’s largest airline in terms of passengers carried, and easyJet occupies fifth place.
Some 35 years ago, the deregulation of Europe’s air industry set up the framework essential for the advances of 
Ryanair and easyJet. Today technological progress and the changing attitudes of the travelling public are creating 
the conditions for Scoot, Wow Air and others to make their mark. Aircraft manufacturers make bigger planes that fly 
longer distances at lower cost. Passengers are willing to accept no-frills, long-haul flights in return for cheaply 
priced tickets. Even if it is a realistic objective, it will undoubtedly take a while for Scoot to establish itself as a force 
in the Asia-Pacific market. The same goes for Wow Air’s aim of emerging as a challenger in Europe to Ryanair, 
Wizz , Wow and Scoot are no laughing matter for long-haul rivals
easyJet and so-called “legacy” airlines such as Air France-KLM, Lufthansa and IAG, which owns British Airways 
and Iberia.
Yet the likes of Norwegian Air Shuttle and Budapest-based Wizz Air are showing how to do it. From its 
Scandinavian homeland, Norwegian Air has expandedwith routes that link Los Angeles, New York, London and 
Bangkok. The airline, owner of scarcely a dozen aircraft in 2005, now has 126 planes. From next month, it will start 
to take delivery of dozens more. As these young airlines build fleets and replace old planes with lighter, more fuel-
efficient aircraft, they will make a greater impact on long-haul travel. Scoot, a subsidiary of Singapore Airlines, has 
already retired all six of its older Boeing 777-200ER planes. Its fleet now consists of Boeing 787s, a more 
economical type of widebody aircraft.
No wonder Tim Clark, president of Emirates Airline, describes the intensifying competition in the long-haul market 
as “a gathering storm”. The woes of Alitalia — which this week appeared, not for the first time, to be edging towards 
collapse — undoubtedly go back further than the challenge from low-cost airlines but Italy’s flag carrier will still be 
seen as a major victim of their success. 
Still, as Mr Clark points out, the legacy carriers are taking the fight to the upstarts, seeking to match low-cost 
airlines on price and to outmuscle them by offering a wider variety of routes. In June IAG will launch Level, a no-
frills, long-haul service. From a base in Barcelona, the airline intends to fly not only to the US west coast but to 
Argentina and the Dominican Republic. Air Canada, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa are all rolling out similar plans 
for inexpensive transatlantic travel. To what extent these initiatives will succeed is an open question. Skuli 
Mogensen, the Icelandic entrepreneur who founded and owns Wow Air, makes a mischievous but not entirely 
inaccurate point when he says that Europe’s legacy airlines seem to find it painfully difficult to run discount sub-
brands at a profit.
One obstacle, as Air France-KLM can testify, is resistance from powerful trade unions representing cabin crews and 
pilots. Moreover, the less flexible type of former flag carrier finds it hard to match the cost structures of upstart 
competitors, which learn from birth to keep expenses to a minimum. Lastly, legacy airlines have often discovered 
that low-fare operations simply cannibalise the parts of their business which rely on higher fares. There will be no 
single solution to these problems. However, the legacy airlines have no choice but to rise to the challenge. Scoot, 
Wow and others may sound frivolous, but the way they are redefining air travel is deadly serious. 
tony.barber@ft.com
Load-Date: April 27, 2017
End of Document
Alitalia : last rites
Alitalia: last rites
 
FT.com
April 25, 2017 Tuesday 12:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 402 words
Body
Not since October 2001, when Swissair’s pilots had to pay for aviation fuel in cash and dry clean their own 
uniforms, has a big European airline faced such a humiliating collapse. The Swiss carrier was rescued and sold. 
Alitalia may fly the Pope on official business, but it is hard to see why anyone outside Italy would save it.
Swissair had a brand that was worth preserving. Its strategy was misguided but operationally it was solid. Alitalia is 
a basket case. It has not made a profit for years. Its staff have been on strike twice already this year. It has 
swallowed billions in funds — from the government, from Italy’s banks and from Etihad. 
The Gulf airline, which bought 49 per cent of Alitalia in a 2014 recapitalisation, is not the first to discover how 
intractable its problems are. Air France was once a shareholder in the group; impatient at the lack of progress in 
restructuring and cost-cutting, it allowed its holding to be diluted in a 2013 capital raising.
It is true that Italy’s weak economy has not helped  Alitalia. Nor that its hub in Rome became the focus of a price 
war between low-cost carriers. But other legacy carriers, notably Air France-KLM, also face no-frills competition at 
their main hubs. Alitalia has not cut costs or capacity quickly enough; available seat miles in April this year were 
actually higher than in the same month of 2014, according to Ascend Global Services. Its backers are running out of 
patience. Etihad is reviewing its stakes in European carriers — fruits of strategy that always looked uncannily 
similar to the expansion plan which did for Swissair. UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo have more urgent priorities than 
propping up Alitalia.
The landscape has also changed. When Lufthansa agreed to acquire Swiss in 2005, Ryanair and easyJet operated 
128 planes. They now have more than 600. Amid this onslaught, and with cost issues of their own, legacy airlines in 
Alitalia : last rites
Europe hardly need more short-haul seats. If they did, they would not need to take on the Augean stables of Italy’s 
flag carrier to acquire them. 
National airlines are notoriously hard to kill off. But shareholders in Lufthansa, Air France and IAG should be 
praying that Alitalia is drastically shrunk, or wound up altogether. That would cut capacity and send a powerful 
warning to their own workforces. Meanwhile, the famously ascetic pontiff may have to fly no-frills, too. 
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: May 12, 2017
End of Document
Airline group IAG buys stakes in tech start-ups
Airline group IAG buys stakes in tech start-ups
 
FT.com
April 23, 2017 Sunday 5:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 465 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
International Airlines Group, the owner of carriers British Airways and Iberia, is stepping up its digital investment by 
taking stakes in two technology start-ups following its first accelerator programme. 
The company has set up a multimillion-pound corporate venture fund with the aim of identifying digital start-ups that 
could help improve the efficiency of its business as well as improve the customer experience. 
Its first investments are in Esplorio, an automated travel journal app that builds a memory of a trip based on 
travellers’ social media updates, and VChain, a company that authenticates customer data using blockchain 
technology. 
Stephen Scott, head of global innovation of IAG, said the group planned to make further investments. “Where we 
see strategic alignment we want to invest in new technologies that will help our business move forward.” The group 
would not disclose how much it had invested in the two start-ups but said neither were majority shareholdings.
The investments come as airlines are increasingly focused on digital innovation after being slow compared with 
other industries to realise the potential of the market. 
Ryanair, the low-cost airline, has poured money into its Digital Labs team to overhaul its website and improve its 
mobile phone app. The budget airline has previously stated its aim to become the “Amazon for travel” in Europe. 
Lufthansa has its own “innovation hub” in Berlin to gain insight from Germany’s start-up scene. 
Airline group IAG buys stakes in tech start-ups
While IAG has worked with technology start-ups in Israel and San Francisco, these are the first investments the 
group has made. Its accelerator programme — Hangar 51 — received more than 450 applicants, with five finalists 
spending 10 weeks with the company testing their products in the market. 
Mr Scott said IAG planned to repeat the programme each year. “Some of the failings of accelerator programmes in 
the past has been this step from prototypes to integration because they haven’t done the hard yards with the 
processes first. We feel we’ve done that,” he said. 
The group plans to spend another six months working with Esplorio and VChain. The focus with VChain will be on 
using its technology to help IAG speed up the airport check-in process. It is then considering working with other 
partners to get the technology off the ground.
Mr Scott said the big benefit of investing in start-ups was getting innovative ideas quickly to market. “Speed to 
market in corporates has been more challenging over the years because of the highly regulated market we work in 
so to be able to construct innovation rather than just have ideas and get it into the market quickly is really 
important.”
This article has been updated to clarify that IAG will continue working with Esplorio for the next six months as well 
as VChain.
Load-Date: April 26, 2017
End of Document
Airlines grounded by Brexit
Airlines grounded by Brexit
 
FT.com
April 13, 2017 Thursday 11:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 536 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Body
Will 2019 be the summer of British staycations? The answer is yes if you believe Ryanair, the low-cost airline. The 
Dublin-based carrier has to date been one of the most vocal in its industry about the disastrous impact Brexit could 
have on the aviation market.
Ryanair has repeatedly warned that the worst-case scenario could be no flights between the UK and Europe for a 
period of weeks or even months if the government fails to strike an early Brexit aviation deal with the EU.
“There could be a situation where you’re going to have to get comfortable with staycations for the summer of 2019. 
Those trips down to Portugal and Spain, unless you can swim, aren’t really going to happen,” says Neil Sorahan, 
Ryanair’s chief financial officer.
While many will brush this off as scaremongering — with a temporary halt of all flights between UK and Europe an 
unlikely outcome — the airline’s warning does highlight the huge uncertainty, and upheaval, Britain’s £60bn aviation 
industry faces following the UK’s triggering of Article 50.
Airlines are currently having to plan for a range of different scenarios. While the preference is to maintain access to 
the EU’s “Open Skies” area, which gives all EU airlines the right to fly between member states and domestically 
within member states, this would require the UK to submit to the authority of the European Court of Justice, 
something the UK government has ruled out.
Airlines grounded by Brexit
The most likely scenario for the UK is to secure individual, bilateral aviation agreements with EU countries or a deal 
with the EU as a bloc. And this is unlikely to be an easy or quick process as it would require unanimous support 
from all states. We have already seen suggestions that the Anglo-Spanish tussle over the rock ofGibraltar could be 
a potential stumbling block in any deal to preserve access to Europe’s skies.
But flying rights are just one part of the array of legal problems that airlines are scrambling to get their heads around 
after Brexit. EasyJet is expected to make an announcement in the coming weeks on where it will base its EU 
subsidiary, expected to cost about £10m, in order to make sure it can fly between its European bases. At the same 
time, some airlines are looking at mandatory share sales to make sure they comply with the EU’s foreign ownership 
rules.
Other questions include whether type (airworthiness) certificates for aircraft, engines and other airline parts issued 
by the Civil Aviation Authority will be recognised by the European Aviation Safety Agency as equal. Will UK airlines 
be able to continue to “wet-lease” aircraft to other carriers into the EU freely?
The stakes are clearly high for the airline sector when it comes to a hard Brexit and departure is approaching. It is 
for this reason the industry will be hoping for an early deal so that some of the clouds start to lift from the route 
ahead. 
Further reading
 International immigration and the labour market, UK, 2016 (ONS)
Gattaca, the small-cap London-listed recruiter, has joined Hays and PageGroup in reporting pressure linked to the 
Brexit vote. (FT)
HSBC says  companies already re-routing business due to Brexit. (Bloomberg)
FT Weekend: The power brokers behind Brexit. Martin Selmayr and Nick Timothy
Load-Date: May 26, 2017
End of Document
Low-cost airlines: Norwegian would
Low-cost airlines: Norwegian would
 
FT.com
April 13, 2017 Thursday 4:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 264 words
Body
Jetting off for the holidays? You could soon have a choice of oddly-named low-cost carriers for long-haul routes, as 
both Air France and IAG plan to launch new subsidiaries. Yet the jury is still out on whether the low-cost model can 
work on longer routes.
In theory, it should. The fixed costs of flying are spread over longer segments, reducing costs per seat-kilometre. 
There is more scope for ancillary revenue; who wants to sit without a drink for a six-hour flight? Creating new units 
enables carriers to undercut labour agreements in their existing businesses — Air France says that Boost, its long-
haul offshoot, will have unit costs a fifth lower. 
Like Lufthansa’s Eurowings and IAG’s Level, Boost is partly a response to Norwegian Air Shuttle. The Scandinavian 
operator started as a short-haul airline but by 2019, Citi thinks half its capacity will be long-haul. Planes on its 
transatlantic routes are full and it makes healthy ancillary revenues. Costs per available seat kilometre are similar to 
low-cost carriers, and will fall again as it flies to small US airports using long-range Boeing 737s. Legacy carriers, 
which make much of their profit in long-haul, have taken note.
But Norwegian is going on a bender. In Europe, only Ryanair (carrying four times as many passengers) has more 
planes on order. This will strain Norwegian’s balance sheet. Debt and lease obligations have grown far faster than 
equity, and its shares have underperformed peers in the past year. The more incremental approach taken by the 
legacy carriers should yet prove wiser.
Email the Lex team at 
Low-cost airlines: Norwegian would
Load-Date: May 26, 2017
End of Document
A helpful guide to Brexit supporters’ excuses
A helpful guide to Brexit supporters’ excuses
 
FT.com
March 31, 2017 Friday 1:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 526 words
Byline: Henry Mance
Body
The triggering of Article 50 was all about sunny optimism. But if  Brexit negotiations do disappoint, it is important for 
Leavers to have the right excuses at the ready.
When no trade and services deal is struck
“I did tell you the EU was a protectionist organisation.”
When Guy Verhofstadt makes clear that the European Parliament will veto the deal
“If I may say so, this is exactly the problem with the EU — all these powerful people that even I have never heard 
of.”
When Britain agrees to pay a multibillion-euro exit fee
“This is actually smart economics. Quite frankly, the euro is a better investment than the pound right now.”
When banks relocate to mainland Europe
“Let’s focus on many jobs that the banks are keeping in London, including several advisory roles that I personally 
plan to apply for once I’m sacked from this job.”
When no deal is struck to secure the rights of EU nationals in the UK
A helpful guide to Brexit supporters’ excuses
“Look, it’s not as if they’ll all be leaving at once. We are putting on a variety of different Ryanair flights this week.”
When immigration fails to fall
“Our target is net migration, and we’ve been working very hard to ensure that more British people leave.”
When parliament has no time to amend any EU regulations
“It turns out that a lot of this stuff is actually quite technical. If I’m honest, it says more about the EU than it does 
about us.”
When there are queues of trucks at Dover, because of glitches in the new customs regime
“If foreign lorries are going to come to this country, they need to learn British habits — such as queueing.”
When a hard border is reintroduced between Northern Ireland and Ireland
“We promised no borders of the past, and that’s exactly what we’ve delivered. This is a border of the future.”
When Scotland votes for independence
“They may have voted for independence, but that doesn’t mean they are going to make a success of it. Just look at 
us and Brexit.”
When Britain does not withdraw from security co-operation with the EU after all 
“You see, we’re not crazy!”
When Donald Trump declines to sign a trade deal
“He’s actually just being a gentleman. He knows there was a real risk of him taking advantage of us.”
When trade negotiations with Brazil and India break down
“There are a whole range of exciting opportunities out there, thanks to space travel technology. So I’m not going to 
get too hung up on one or two places that are still stuck on our own planet. This is the start of a truly Galactic 
Britain.”
When flights deporting EU nationals are grounded due to the expiry of the Open Skies regime
“Many people actually prefer the ferry to Ryanair.”
When Britain is forced to apply World Trade Organization tariffs to food imports from the EU: “Good. Did 
anyone even like avocado?” 
When no British team qualifies for the 2020 European football championship
“There are 193 countries in the world and most of them are not in the European Championship.”
When Britain fails to leave the EU within two years
“I don’t think anyone ever said we’d be out by March 2019. The important thing is that we’ve taken control of the 
decision of whether we leave or not. As to what happens next — that’s up to prime minister Farage and his team.”
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
A helpful guide to Brexit supporters’ excuses
End of Document
All aboard the in-house Commission gravy train
All aboard the in-house Commission gravy train
 
FT.com
March 31, 2017 Friday 8:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 199 words
Body
Sir, I always enjoy the “Lunch With The FT” articles, not least because it’s interesting to read what the interviewees 
order and what the cost is. Some of the choices are almost stereotypical and I can’t help thinking that some are 
made in the knowledge that they will be printed for the world to see. So, we had Michael O’ Leary (chief executive 
of Ryanair) ordering a chicken salad and coffee from the canteen for €14.60 (for two), and Nigel Farage, being 
honest (if a bit excessive) about his preferences, sinking a few pints, washed down by a bottle of red, costing 
around £135. And who could forget Richard Desmond, who ordered a bottle of Château Palmer 1983 at £580 — 
total bill, including service, £758.81.
Then in last week’s Financial Times the stereotype to top them all. Jean-Claude Juncker, European Commission 
president, eating at the commission’s in-house restaurant, sips a glass of Languedoc to accompany the carpaccio 
and tender veal fillets. And the price: complimentary. Someone in the taxpaying community must have paid, and 
“complimentary” says a lot about the European Commission’s — literal — gravy train.
Nice work if you can get it, Jean-Claude.
Peter Brookes
Penang, Malaysia
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
All aboard the in-house Commission gravy train
End of Document
Ryanair warns of tight deadline and ‘deep’ cuts to flights without Brexit deal
Ryanair warns of tight deadline and ‘deep’ cuts to flights without Brexit deal
 
FT.com
March 29, 2017 Wednesday 6:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 285 words
Byline: Katie Martin
Body
Airline Ryanair has used the day of the triggering of Article 50 to urge the government to focus on, well, airlines.
In the wake of warnings from the European Commission that UK planes  could face severe restrictions on European 
flights immediately after a “hard” Brexit, Ryanair warns that time is short, with a “distinct possibility of no flights 
between Europe and the UK for a period from March 2019 in the absence of a bilateral deal.”
It points out that summer 2019 schedules must be released in March next year.
Kenny Jacobs at the airline said:
It’s become worrying that the UK Government seems to have no plan B to maintain Britain’s liberalised air links 
with Europe, in the absence of remaining in the “Open Skies” regime.With Britain planning to leave the EU and 
its Open Skies agreement, there is a distinct possibility that there may be no flights between the UK and 
Europe for a period of time after March 2019. The best we can hope for is a new bilateral agreement between 
the UK and EU, however, we worry that Britain may not be able to negotiate such a bilateral in time for the 
release by airlines of summer 2019 schedules in mid-2018.Ryanair, like all airlines, plans its flights 12 months 
in advance, so there are just 12 months to go until we finalise our summer 2019 schedule, which could see 
deep cuts to our flights both to, from and within the UK from March 2019 onwards.
Related reading
Our  Paul McClean has been covering this issue in depth in recent months. Here’s a few of his stories:
Ryanair warns of tight deadline and ‘deep’ cuts to flights without Brexit deal
 UK airlines warned on post-Brexit flight restrictions (March 28)
 Gibraltar poses threat to post-Brexit aviation access (Feb 12)
 Airlines investors face forced share sale after Brexit (Jan 27)
 (Image: EPA)
Load-Date: March 29, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair warns of tight deadline and ‘deep’ cuts to flights without Brexit deal
Ryanair warns of tight deadline and ‘deep’ cuts to flights without Brexit deal
 
FT.com
March 29, 2017 Wednesday 6:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 285 words
Byline: Katie Martin
Body
Airline Ryanair has used the day of the triggering of Article 50 to urge the government to focus on, well, airlines.
In the wake of warnings from the European Commission that UK planes  could face severe restrictions on European 
flights immediately after a “hard” Brexit, Ryanair warns that time is short, with a “distinct possibility of no flights 
between Europe and the UK for a period from March 2019 in the absence of a bilateral deal.”
It points out that summer 2019 schedules must be released in March next year.
Kenny Jacobs at the airline said:
It’s become worrying that the UK Government seems to have no plan B to maintain Britain’s liberalised air links 
with Europe, in the absence of remaining in the “Open Skies” regime.With Britain planning to leave the EU and 
its Open Skies agreement, there is a distinct possibility that there may be no flights between the UK and 
Europe for a period of time after March 2019. The best we can hope for is a new bilateral agreement between 
the UK and EU, however, we worry that Britain may not be able to negotiate such a bilateral in time for the 
release by airlines of summer 2019 schedules in mid-2018.Ryanair, like all airlines, plans its flights 12 months 
in advance, so there are just 12 months to go until we finalise our summer 2019 schedule, which could see 
deep cuts to our flights both to, from and within the UK from March 2019 onwards.
Related reading
Our  Paul McClean has been covering this issue in depth in recent months. Here’s a few of his stories:
Ryanair warns of tight deadline and ‘deep’ cuts to flights without Brexit deal
 UK airlines warned on post-Brexit flight restrictions (March 28)
 Gibraltar poses threat to post-Brexit aviation access (Feb 12)
 Airlines investors face forced share sale after Brexit (Jan 27)
 (Image: EPA)
Load-Date: March 29, 2017
End of Document
Brexit: Empire state of denial
Brexit: Empire state of denial
 
FT.com
March 29, 2017 Wednesday 5:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 354 words
Body
The old headline “Fog in Channel — Continent Isolated” is particularly satirical when applied to trade relations. 
Exports to the EU are 46 per cent of the UK’s global total.
The dubiously nicknamed Empire 2.0 plan to sell more to Britain’s former colonies will be no substitute. Brexit trade 
negotiations could have a big and mostly negative impact on corporate valuations. 
Theresa May, UK prime minister, hopes for a “bold and ambitious” new trade planthat involves leaving the EU 
customs union but somehow retaining frictionless trade. What happens if she fails and default World Trade 
Organisation rules apply instead? Think-tank Civitas foresees £5.2bn in tariff costs. The Institute for Fiscal Studies 
says trade could fall 17-29 per cent. 
The UK would be likely to get WTO “most favoured nation” terms, meaning an average charge of 5.6 per cent. This 
masks wide variations, including a 10 per cent levy on car exports, and animal and dairy tariffs between 20 and 35 
per cent. Financial services would be worst off as passporting rights lapsed.
Shares are responding mainly to macro factors such as sterling weakness and rate forecasts. As mid-channel fog 
clears to reveal the shape of trade relations, stock-specific impacts will be felt. Shares in European financial 
services groups, such as the London Stock Exchange, face a volatile two years. 
Automotive suppliers such as GKN also look exposed: if customers move factories to the EU, some of their own 
plants may need to follow. Airlines such as Ryanair and easyJet could lose their European licences under rules 
requiring majority ownership by EU nationals.
Brexit: Empire state of denial
The UK is expected to negotiate on a sector-by-sector basis. Trade-offs are inevitable. The industries that lobby 
most effectively should emerge relative winners. 
If the EU insists on industry-specific tariffs, they will probably be a watered-down version of what the WTO would 
impose. 
Lower wages or sterling weakening could offset some of the losses. But the pound barely shifted from its seven-
week high as Article 50 was triggered. It cannot be relied on to bail out equity investors.
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: March 30, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet calls for bilateral agreement to secure UK-EU flights
EasyJet calls for bilateral agreement to secure UK-EU flights
 
FT.com
March 29, 2017 Wednesday 12:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 174 words
Byline: Nicholas Megaw
Body
EasyJet has called for the UK to secure a bilateral agreement with the EU to allow it to continue flights from the UK 
after it leaves the EU, as concerns grow in the industry about the fate of  British airlines after Brexit.
The company said that its minimum requirement to continue flights between the UK and EU will be “a 
straightforward bilateral aviation agreement”.
The statement follows a warning from rival  Ryanair earlier today, which said there is a “distinct possibility of no 
flights between Europe and the UK” for a period after March 2019.
At the same time, EasyJet said it “will ensure that we can maintain our flying rights within the EU”. The company 
said it is close to announcing its application for an EU air operator’s certificate, which will allow it to handle intra-EU 
flights.
The company reiterated its commitment to keeping its headquarters in Luton. It said an EU operating company 
would need to be majority EU-owned, but said “as easyJet plc currently has 49 per cent EU shareholders this will 
not present a challenge”.
 
Load-Date: March 29, 2017
EasyJet calls for bilateral agreement to secure UK-EU flights
End of Document
British airlines warned over post-Brexit flight restrictions
British airlines warned over post-Brexit flight restrictions
 
FT.com
March 28, 2017 Tuesday 4:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 680 words
Byline: Paul McClean in Brussels
Body
British airlines could face severe restrictions on European flights immediately after a “hard”  Brexit, the European 
Commission has warned, as the UK prepares for the formal process of leaving the EU.
Commission officials recently told British airline representatives that under a transitional deal after a hard Brexit UK 
carriers would be able to operate only direct flights between the UK and the EU, according to two people familiar 
with the discussions.
Under such restrictions, airlines such as easyJet and BMI, which currently fly between destinations in the 
continental EU, such as Milan to Munich, would not be able to operate such routes without changing their status.
Should Britain also impose the same restrictions on EU airlines, Ryanair could be prevented from operating intra-
UK flights. 
The probability of a hard Brexit has risen since Theresa May, prime minister, made clear her plans to leave the 
EU’s single market and end the authority of the European Court of Justice over British courts. But one big question 
is whether the UK will accept European aviation law, over which the ECJ has the ultimate say.
EasyJet has said since last year’s referendum that it intends to set up a new EU-based company with a European 
air operators’ certificate to handle intra-EU flights. The company has said it expects the process to cost £10m over 
two years.
British airlines warned over post-Brexit flight restrictions
But the commission’s warning highlights the changes facing the aviation industry as Mrs May’s government triggers 
the Article 50divorce clause of the EU treaty. 
The moves easyJet have embarked on would involve establishing its new company on the continent as its principal 
entity, with a UK subsidiary to run intra-UK flights.
UK airlines already face a scramble to ensure they are majority owned by EU nationals after Brexit — which could 
involve forcing UK investors to sell their shares to EU citizens, in order to comply with the bloc’s strict rules on 
control.
EasyJet will also have to satisfy regulators that it is majority owned and controlled by EU nationals; as it stands, it 
will not be after Brexit. It may also have to satisfy two sets of safety regulators, the UK CAA and EASA. EasyJet 
declined to comment.
As it stands, BMI Regional, which currently operates many intra-mainland flights, could also be prevented from 
flying such routes from the day of Brexit. A spokesperson said the group would wait until the end of 2017 before 
deciding if it would follow easyJet in setting up a hub on the continent to maintain access to intra-European flights.
The airlines would also have to register some aircraft as UK and others as EU planes. Once a UK plane reaches 
the EU, it would have to return to Britain without continuing to a second mainland destination.
“It could see services from UK airports reduced as a result of this more limited fleet flexibility, with the companies 
only focusing on the most profitable routes from the UK to offset the increased operating costs,” said one aviation 
expert.
Ryanair is registered as an Irish airline, so would not be directly affected by the commission’s rules on UK carriers. 
But the UK government is likely to mirror any restrictions placed on to its own airlines by preventing EU carriers 
from operating intra-UK flights.
Ryanair said: “Until the final outcome is known, we will continue to adapt to changing circumstances in the best 
interest of our customers, people and shareholders.” The group has previously hinted that it is ready to scrap its 
intra-UK routes rather than establish a new UK-based subsidiary to comply with new regulations.
IAG, parent company of British Airways, will not be affected by the restrictions, as all BA flights currently leave from 
or arrive in the UK. But the company must still satisfy regulators that it is majority-EU owned after Brexit, despite 
having a large number of UK shareholders and being 20 per cent owned by Qatar Airways. 
Unlike other airlines, IAG has refused to reveal what percentage of its shareholders are EU nationals but the 
company is coming under increasing pressure to do so.
Additional reporting by Robert Wright
Load-Date: March 31, 2017
End of Document
Horse traders gamble on winning big at the Cheltenham races
Horse traders gamble on winning big at the Cheltenham races
 
FT.com
March 14, 2017 Tuesday 7:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 641 words
Byline: John Murray Brown
Body
Just two men will dominate this year’s Cheltenham Festival, accounting for half the entries made by the top 10 
owners. 
Gigginstown House Stud, the racing operation of Michael O’Leary, the Ryanair chief executive, has entered 161 
horses, while JP McManus, the former bookmaker, has 160. 
The concentration of wealth in the winner’s enclosure is nothing new at Cheltenham. In 2016 just four owners won 
15 of the festival’s 28 races, raising concerns that national hunt racing — which is over jumps — was going the way 
of flat racing.
But advocates of the sport say there are still opportunities for horses of a modest pedigree, who have begun their 
careers on the less prestigious point-to-point circuit. 
These horses are often bought for small sums in the hope they can be proven as a “pointer” and then sold at 
auction for six figure sums to the big racing stables.
Those dealing in such equine hopefuls are sometimes called pin-hookers, a term originally used in commodities 
such as tobacco for anyone buying something cheaply to sell it later for a profit.
Where Mr O’Leary and Mr McManus buy to own, horseracing’s pin-hookers buy to sell, scouring the point-to-point 
fixture list in search of future champions.
Horse traders gamble on winning big at the Cheltenham races
“The best horses don’t always cost the most” said Richard Pugh, a director at auctioneers Tattersalls Ireland. 
“Take Minella Rocco. He was racing at Horse & Jockey, in a field behind the pub, on a Sunday and four days later 
we sold him at our Cheltenham sale for £260,000 to JP McManus.”
Horse & Jockey, the name of a village near Thurles in county Tipperary, is also home to one of Ireland’s best known 
point-to-point courses. On that occasion in 2014, Minella Rocco won by eight lengths in what was the horse’s first 
outing. 
The gelding — more than 90 per cent of jumps horses are geldings or castrated male horses — had been bought 
as a 3-year old the year before by John Nallen, a beef farmer and hotelier from nearby Clonmel. This week Minella 
Rocco, trained by Jonjo O’Neill in Mr McManus’ distinctive green and yellow hoop silks, is entered in the flagship 
race of the festival — the Timico Gold Cup.
Many of the most famous names in National Hunt racing have followed a similar route to glory, including Best Mate, 
War of Attrition, Denman and Monty’s Pass.
Now specialist bloodstock auction houses have entered the fray, staging “boutique” sales at the racetracks during 
meetings of selected young horses sourced at rural point-to-points. 
“The real advantage of doing it at the racetrack is buyers don’t have to travel to the sale, and hopefully they’re 
already having a good day,” said Henry Beeby, chief executive of Goffs, which has a sale during Grand National 
week at Aintree.
During Cheltenham, the key event is Tattersalls Ireland Select Sales on the Thursday of race week, with roughly 20 
lots under the hammer this year.
Horses that have been sold at such sales in past years include Lord Windermere, a Gold Cup winner, Western 
Warhorse, who won the Arkle Challenge Trophy Novices’ Chase and O’Faolains Boy, a past winner of 
Wednesday’s RSA Chase.
“You’d have to say that to have provided the winners of so many key races in such a short period of time is a 
notable achievement for a single auction,” said Nick Craven of Weatherbys, a family-owned company which acts as 
racing’s clearing house taking entry fees and distributing prize money.
The auction takes place after racing finishes in the winner’s enclosure. With space at a premium during race week, 
the horses have in past years been stabled at the nearby RDA, Riding for the Disabled Association.
“All the big owners will be represented,” said Tattersalls’ Mr Pugh, who was at the Horse & Jockey on Sunday 
hoping to enlist another couple of lots for this week’s auction.
“And if you buy a horse at Cheltenham, of course you hope to come back to Cheltenham as a winner.” 
Load-Date: March 17, 2017
End of Document
Open Cheltenham field bodes well for bookmakers
Open Cheltenham field bodes well for bookmakers
 
FT.com
March 11, 2017 Saturday 9:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 803 words
Byline: Murad Ahmed, Leisure Correspondent
Body
For UK bookmakers, the going looks good at the Cheltenham Festival once again.
Gambling companies are expecting strong profits from the annual horseracing fixture, which begins on Tuesday, 
after the previous two events left them paying out more than £100m to punters.
The renewed confidence comes from a more unpredictable Cheltenham field than usual. Thistlecrack, the strong 
favourite for the Gold Cup, the festival’s most prestigious event, has been ruled out due to injury. In January, Many 
Clouds beat Thistlecrack at the Gloucestershire course, only to collapse and die at the end of the race.
Other big names that will not appear include Coneygree and Don Cossack, the last two Gold Cup winners, and 
Faugheen and Annie Power, previous winners of the Champion Hurdle.
The lack of clear frontrunners is the ideal scenario for bookmakers in what is the biggest betting week of the year. 
Bookies suffered huge losses during the 2015 and 2016 festivals after a string of heavily backed favourites 
cantered home to victory.
Last year’s washout for the bookmakers contributed to a profit warning from William Hill a week later. The company 
described it as “the worst Cheltenham Festival in recent history”, echoing similar views across the industry.
---------------
Cheltenham Festival: the numbers
Open Cheltenham field bodes well for bookmakers
£100m: Impact on the local Gloucestershire economy from the festival each year
30: Extra flights put on by Ryanair on the Dublin to Birmingham route during the festival period
£45m: Cost of the course’s redevelopment, which concluded in 2015
240: Number of private boxes at the racecourse
65,000: Average daily attendance over the four-day meeting
7: Most wins by a jockey, Ruby Walsh, in a single year
---------------
Rivals William Hill, Ladbrokes Coral and Paddy Power Betfair are counting on a reversal. Already the companies 
have benefited by taking big bets on horses that have since pulled out as punters place wagers months in advance. 
“The fields are more open and more competitive — and in theory that should . . . favour the bookies,” says Philip 
Bowcock, who was formally appointed chief executive of William Hill on Friday. 
“We took a £20m bath last year,” says Breon Corcoran, chief executive of Paddy Power Betfair. “We like to think 
[this year’s festival] could be a profitable week.”
One senior betting industry executive warns the withdrawal of many of the favourite horses may depress interest 
from diehard fans. “The Festival is missing some stars,” says the executive. “It’s the equivalent of the last Olympics 
not having Usain Bolt and Mo Farah running.”
Gambling companies have an incentive to highlight losses, as it encourages punters to believe they can beat the 
oddsmakers. But Cheltenham always represents big business for bookmakers. Despite growing interest in other 
sports, horseracing is still the biggest betting sport in the UK and is expected to generate punts worth £9.1bn this 
year, according to Global Betting and Gaming Consultants.
Donal McCabe, external relations director at Ladbrokes Coral, estimates the gambling industry will make revenues 
of £200m during the festival. “It is, along with [the Grand National at] Aintree, our equivalent of the Christmas and 
January sales trading period.”
For Cheltenham, gambling groups engage in a fierce battle for customers, heavily promoting special offers and 
trying to undercut rivals by offering favourable odds. Mr Corcoran says both the Paddy Power and Betfair brands 
will engage in the price war, seeing it as “an opportunity to reactivate our old customers and bring in some new 
customers.” 
This year’s festival may also mark the conclusion of a divisive funding row between bookmakers and the British 
horseracing industry, which had led companies such as Ladbrokes and Betfred to stop sponsoring big races at 
Cheltenham.
The battle may end once the government introduces changes to the horseracing betting levy, designed to help fund 
the sport in the UK. The existing levy charges a 10.75 per cent tax on profits generated from bets placed through 
the UK’s network of 7,000 traditional bookmakers’ shops, but does not cover bets made through offshore-based 
websites.
From April, all businesses taking bets from British consumers on UK races will pay 10 per cent of their gross profits 
from racing above the first £500,000 they make. Crucially, online bets will be covered by the tax. Gambling 
executives are angry about the measures, which could result in the industry paying about £30m more to fund 
horseracing.
Open Cheltenham field bodes well for bookmakers
Simon Bazalgette, chief executive of The Jockey Club, which runs the Cheltenham racecourse, says settling the 
funding debate would allow disgruntled bookies to come “back into the fold.” He says: “We can all get on together to 
building the business rather than fighting over . . . what’s going to happen next year and the annual levy battle.”
Load-Date: March 13, 2017
End of Document
Oil is always a puzzle and can look like an annuity
Oil is always a puzzle and can look like an annuity
 
FT.com
March 10, 2017 Friday 9:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 690 words
Byline: Neil Collins
Body
Both literally and metaphorically, oil drives modern economies. It is so central to what we do that its price is the 
single biggest determinant of prosperity, yet despite the concerted efforts of economists everywhere, it has proved 
almost impossible to predict.
This week the cost of a barrel of crude suddenly lurched down out of its trading range. The move quite 
overwhelmed the cheerful comments from analysts responding to Royal Dutch Shell’s $7.25bn sale of its tar sands 
business in Canada. Partly thanks to the weak pound, Shell shares yield 7.2 per cent, a dividend that looks 
significantly safer after this deal.
Whether it is truly sustainable, or whether we holders should consider our investment as an annuity, with assets 
being sold to maintain the income, depends above all on the oil price. It’s fine, says the International Energy 
Agency, dismissing any talk of peak demand for oil. Indeed, the agency’s latest analysis forecasts that the cutbacks 
in exploration following the price crash from $100 point to a supply crunch in 2020.
Oh no, it’s not fine at all, says a detailed study from the  Grantham Institute. The game is up for oil, with demand 
peaking that year, thanks to falling costs of solar and wind power. Even gas faces the prospect of little growth in 
demand.
Well, maybe. The oil price does look vulnerable, but more because of Trumpenomics’ policy aim of US self-
sufficiency rather than through any lack of demand. We might conclude that Shell has seen the light in escaping the 
Oil is always a puzzle and can look like an annuity
glue of Canada’s tar sands, a chronically marginal business, while mass adoption of electric cars is the future that 
never arrives. And as BP has shown with Macondo, there’s a deal of ruin in a big oil company.
All aboard the paper train
David Higgins has been updating us on his vision for HS2, that magnificent money-eating machine about to carve 
its way through the middle of England. He wants to see “everyday low prices” on the railway, along the lines of 
easyJet or Ryanair. So, rather as you book that holiday trip to Alicante well in advance before the price goes up, 
you will book an exciting high-speed ride from London to Birmingham on a specific day months away.
Almost in the same breath Sir David, the chairman of the project, dreams of “making Crewe within commuting 
distance of London, Birmingham and Manchester.” This is about as likely as Birmingham becoming a tourist 
destination, and is typical of the muddled thinking that gave us HS2 in the first place.
Unlike, say, Heathrow’s third runway, this project appears to be unstoppable, despite the evidence that it is not 
worth doing. Even if it can be built for its budgeted £22bn, the public accounts committee doubts whether the line is 
value for money. Since £1.4bn has already been spent and building is yet to begin, that budget looks like a fantasy 
figure.
Sir David tells us that rail fares will be published this year, another paper exercise that is rather easier than actual 
construction. The prices might allow us to work out how much of the capital cost is wasted. They are unlikely to 
show that commuting from Birmingham, let alone Crewe, is a viable option.
A Gilbertian drama
It’s unkind to suggest that 1,000 jobs will go from Standard Aberdeen in order to save one, but to make financial 
sense of this merger, the first figure may not be too far from the eventual outcome. Fortunately for Scotland, most of 
the redundancies will be abroad, some as far away as London. Others, like Standard Life’s departing head of 
equities David Cumming, will have more time to listen or even appear on early morning radio.
The merged company aspires to be viewed the way the market rates Schroders, where the family control allows it 
to take a long view. Perhaps Standard Life’s 1.5m small shareholders, who have held since flotation, might provide 
a similar sheet anchor. In the meantime, the new company has to demonstrate that two chief executives are better 
than one, and why it needs to have over £600bn under management in order to make a decent living.  
A full list of Neil Collins’ financial interests can be found at  www.ft.com/collinsportfolio
neil.collins@ft.com
Load-Date: March 13, 2017
End of Document
HS2 chief calls for ‘everyday low prices’ on new high-speed railway
HS2 chief calls for ‘everyday low prices’ on new high-speed railway
 
FT.com
March 5, 2017 Sunday 5:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 627 words
Byline: Andy Bounds, North of England Correspondent
Body
The head of HS2 is pushing for “everyday low prices” on the high-speed railway and said big infrastructure projects 
for the north were needed to solve the London housing crisis.
Sir David Higgins, chairman of the public company developing the line, said ticket prices could be published by the 
end of the year and criticised the way rail fares were structured.
“By the end of this year we need to be clear what the service offering is. The 17m variations in ticket pricing in the 
railway industry is not best practice.”
He said the line would carry up to 600,000 passengers a day and seats should be filled by copying budget airlines, 
by offering early bookers cheaper fares. “You look at EasyJet or Ryanair or Eurostar. These services are full all the 
time. People will want to know they can book in advance, they can always get a seat and it is reliable. It is everyday 
efficient low prices,” he said.
A law providing for the first phase of the £56bn line was enacted last month and enabling works should start within 
weeks. The first trains are expected to arrive in Birmingham in 2026.
Sir David said the route could plug into east-west rail connections, linking cities and towns and helping the effort to 
create a counterweight to London. He called on the government to back proposals for an east-west high speed line 
from Liverpool to Leeds and Sheffield, details of which will be outlined in the autumn.
HS2 chief calls for ‘everyday low prices’ on new high-speed railway
Infrastructure spending “per head of population in London versus the rest has been heavily distorted” and HS2 
would help to address this. 
A lasting solution to the London housing crisis, which he said was driving families and businesses away from the 
capital, could only be achieved if the north became more prosperous.
“There is nothing else that will start to solve this issue. You cannot build your way out of this crisis of affordability. 
House prices in London are not going to crash,” he said. 
“We need to distribute the jobs. It will make the whole country more productive.”
Rebalancing meant “making Crewe within commuting distance of London, Birmingham and Manchester.”
Approval for the first section north of Birmingham, to Crewe, should come within 18 months, he said. In July, HS2 
will set out the route of the rest of the line, which will split into a Y, with one arm to Manchester and the other to 
Leeds. The 225mph trains will rejoin existing lines at Wigan and York, reducing journey times to cities beyond.
Sir David said HS2 would tender seven contracts worth £1bn each this year for the initial earthworks, as well as 
choosing companies to design and build the trains. In the first phase £2.75bn has been set aside for rolling stock, 
and £7bn for the whole line.
The UK has no national trainmakers but Sir David said 60 per cent of the money was for a maintenance contract, 
which favours local suppliers. But while he said that this “is an enormous opportunity for the UK manufacturing 
industry, it will need a supply chain.” He admitted that EU rules forbid favouring domestic companies.
HS2 also plans to start the process of finding a development partner for stations this year. Cities believe that these 
large projects can regenerate entire districts, as is happening already around Curzon Street in Birmingham. 
Sir David said the high speed route to Kent had increased property prices in Ashford and coastal towns as people 
moved there to commute to London: “Regeneration follows transport infrastructure.”
He said he “welcomed” a challenge to an earlier contract tender. Mace, a losing bidder, has threatened to sue HS2 
after missing out on a £170m deal. “I am a massive believer in transparency. If someone has a smarter way of 
doing something we will change our minds,” said Sir David. HS2 says that independent experts vetted the tenders.
Load-Date: March 8, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair warns UK government on urgency over Brexit deal
Ryanair warns UK government on urgency over Brexit deal
 
FT.com
February 23, 2017 Thursday 6:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 550 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair, Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers, has accused the UK government of failing to grasp the 
urgency of striking a deal for post-Brexit aviation, saying the industry needs a year’s notice to plan schedules after 
Britain leaves the EU.
Kenny Jacobs, the low-cost airline’s chief marketing officer, also painted a gloomy picture of the prospects of 
securing a deal. He cautioned that other EU member states could block the UK’s continued access to the EU’s 
“Open Skies” area. 
The warning is the starkest yet from an airline about the potential consequences of Brexit. EU regulation is deeply 
embedded in the UK’s aviation agreements not only with other European countries but with the US, which regulates 
transatlantic flights via a deal with the EU rather than individual member states.
Speaking in London, Mr Jacobs acknowledged that the UK government had said it was inconceivable the UK would 
leave the liberalised European Open Skies area following the Brexit negotiations. Theresa May, prime minister, has 
said she will launch the exit process under Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty — which sets a two-year time limit for talks 
— next month.
But Mr Jacobs warned: “There isn’t a plan and we need to see a plan.”
“We’re 365 days away from having to know what’s happening with Open Skies,” he added.
Ryanair warns UK government on urgency over Brexit deal
The Department for Transport said on Thursday that it was committed to getting the “best deal possible” from EU 
exit negotiations.
“We will work closely with the international aviation community to ensure that this global industry continues to be a 
major success story for the UK economy,” the department said.
Ryanair, which is based in Dublin, has scaled back its plans for growth in the UK in response to the Brexit 
uncertainty. It said its growth from London airports next winter would slow to 2 per cent, from 10 per cent this winter. 
The airline is instead deploying new aircraft in Romania, Bulgaria and other markets.
Mr Jacobs hinted that routes might have to be cut if there was no clarity about an EU deal within a year.
“If we don’t know this time next year, what are airlines going to do?” he asked. “Are we going to have to make 
significant capacity cuts?”
The pressure to strike a deal with the EU reflected the fact that airlines planned their schedules a year in advance, 
Ryanair said. Airlines will therefore be finalising a year from now their summer schedules starting from the end of 
March 2019, the period when the UK is aiming to leave the union.
Open Skies gives all EU airlines the right to fly between member states and domestically within member states. But 
Mr Jacobs pointed out that member states submit under Open Skies to the authority of the European Court of 
Justice, something the UK government has ruled out for any post-Brexit settlement.
He said the most likely scenarios for the UK were striking individual, bilateral aviation agreements with EU member 
states or a deal with the EU as a whole. A deal with the whole EU would require all member states’ agreement, 
meaning individual countries’ grievances — such as Spain’s unhappiness over UK control of Gibraltar — could hold 
up a deal.
“Europe and the UK want Open Skies to continue,” Mr Jacobs said. “That’s a rational statement. Are both sides 
going to be rational when negotiations start? We don’t know.”
Load-Date: February 27, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair profits fall more than expected, with ‘cautious’ outlook
Ryanair profits fall more than expected, with ‘cautious’ outlook
 
FT.com
February 6, 2017 Monday 7:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 534 words
Byline: Robert Wright
Body
Ryanair on Monday said it was “cautious” about the outlook for the last two months of its financial year and 
reiterated its plans to reduce its growth rate in the UK as it reported fares and profits for the October to December 
quarter fell more than expected.
The airline, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, stood by its previous guidance that post-tax profits for the year to 
March 31 would be in a range from €1.3bn to €1.35bn but said the guidance depended heavily on the absence of 
“security events” affecting close-in bookings.
The company made the projection as it announced figures for the quarter to the end of December reflecting a 17 
per cent year-on-year fall – to €33 – in the average fare per passenger. The figure was slightly sharper than the 13 
to 15 per cent decline that Ryanair had forecast for the second half of its financial year. The decline pushed down 
post-tax profits for the quarter 8 per cent to €95m, on revenues that increased 1 per cent to €1.34bn.
The profit figure fell just short of the consensus expectation of €99m post-tax profits.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, said the airline’s fares over the winter had fallen sharply as Ryanair continued to 
increase both its traffic and the proportion of its aircraft operating full. Passenger traffic was up 16 per cent on the 
same quarter the previous year. The falling yields had been exacerbated by the sharp decline in Sterling following 
June’s vote to leave the European Union.
Ryanair profits fall more than expected, with ‘cautious’ outlook
“Ryanair responded to this weaker environment by continuing to improve our ‘always getting better’ customer 
experience, cutting costs, and stimulating demand through lower fares, which has seen load factors jump to record 
levels,” Mr O’Leary said.
Like many European airlines, Ryanair faces a market where excess capacity has helped to drive down fares, jihadi 
violence in several countries has hit passenger confidence and air traffic control disruption has grown worse. The 
airline, however, has pushed ahead with expansion, betting that its lost cost-base would enable it to withstand the 
resulting decline in fares better than rivals.
As well as sounding cautious about the remainder of the current financial year, Ryanair said that pricing would 
continue to be “challenging” in the year starting in March.
“We will respond to these adverse market conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs,” Mr O’Leary 
said.
Mr O’Leary forecast that the company’s strategy of cutting fares to keep its aircraft full would win market share.
Ryanair also warned that the UK’s EU Brexit process represented a challenge for the business for the current and 
next financial year.
“We expect Sterling to remain volatile for some time and we may see a slowdown in economic growth in both the 
UK and Europe as we move closer to Brexit,” Mr O’Leary said.
Ryanair has previously said it would reduced its planned growth at UK airports and shift new capacity to mainland 
European markets such as Germany. Mr O’Leary reiterated those plans.
“While there may be opportunities to expand at certain UK airports, we expect to grow at a slower pace than 
previously planned in the UK and will continue to switch capacity into other key markets around Europe,” he said.
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair profits hit by pound’s weakness since Brexit vote
Ryanair profits hit by pound’s weakness since Brexit vote
 
FT.com
February 6, 2017 Monday 8:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 526 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
A falling pound and a flood of rivals moving into its profitable markets dented Ryanair’s financial performance in the 
last three months of 2016, with the airline reporting on Monday that fares and profits fell slightly more than expected 
during the quarter.
Europe’s biggest low-cost airline said it was “cautious” about the rest of its fiscal year, which finishes at the end of 
next month, and warned that its previous guidance for post-tax profits for the year — €1.3bn to €1.35bn — 
depended heavily on the absence of “security events” affecting bookings.
For the quarter to the end of December, the carrier’s average fare per passenger fell 17 per cent year-on-year, to 
€33. The figure was slightly sharper than the 13 to 15 per cent decline Ryanair had forecast for the second half of 
its financial year. 
The decline pushed post-tax profits for the quarter down 8 per cent to €95m, on revenues that increased 1 per cent 
to €1.34bn. The profit figure fell just short of the consensus expectation of €99m post-tax profits.
Like many European airlines, Ryanair faces a market where excess capacity has helped to drive down fares, 
terrorist violence in several countries has hit passenger confidence and air traffic control disruption has grown 
worse. The airline, however, has pushed ahead with expansion, betting that its low cost base would enable it to 
withstand the resulting decline in fares better than rivals.
Ryanair profits hit by pound’s weakness since Brexit vote
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, said the airline’s fares over the winter had fallen sharply as Ryanair continued to 
increase both its traffic and the proportion of its aircraft operating at full capacity. 
Passenger traffic was up 16 per cent on the same quarter the previous year. The falling yields — the average fare 
paid per mile — had been exacerbated by the sharp decline in sterling following Britain’s vote to leave the EU in 
June. Ryanair takes in an outsized portion of its fare revenue in pounds, while the vast majority of its expenses are 
in euros and other non-sterling currencies.
Ryanair has previously said it would reduce its planned growth at UK airports and shift new capacity to mainland 
European markets such as Germany. Mr O’Leary said he expected a “volatile” pound would continue to make 
financial performance difficult, and said he was sticking to his plans to emphasise growth outside the UK.
“We expect sterling to remain volatile for some time and we may see a slowdown in economic growth in both the 
UK and Europe as we move closer to Brexit,” Mr O’Leary said.
“While there may be opportunities to expand at certain UK airports, we expect to grow at a slower pace than 
previously planned in the UK and will continue to switch capacity into other key markets around Europe,” he added.
As well as sounding cautious about the remainder of the current financial year, Ryanair said that pricing would 
continue to be “challenging” next year. But Mr O’Leary vowed to push on with growth plans.
“We will respond to these adverse market conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs,” Mr O’Leary 
said.
Mr O’Leary forecast that the company’s strategy of cutting fares to keep its aircraft full would win market share.
Load-Date: February 9, 2017
End of Document
Fast Europe Open: Banks make bank
Fast Europe Open: Banks make bank
 
FT.com
February 6, 2017 Monday 6:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 220 words
Byline: Hudson Lockett
Body
Super Bowl Sunday may have come and gone in the US but anticipation is only building among investors for the 
potential windfall of financial deregulation.
In equities, Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 finished the day down 0.1 per cent, Tokyo’s Topix index is up 0.4 per cent and 
in Hong Kong the Hang Seng index was 0.6 per cent higher in afternoon Asia trading.
The banking segments of those Asian indices were strong, following peers in the US that had been buoyed by 
expectations of financial deregulation there, rising 0.3 per cent, 1.4 per cent and 0.7 per cent, respectively.
A relatively subdued dollar has dampened volatility in Asian currencies with Japan’s yen 0.2 per cent stronger at 
¥112.52 and the Australian dollar shedding 0.3 per cent against the greenback to $0.7664. The pound was trading 
flat at $1.2489 per dollar while the euro was down 0.1 per cent at $1.0774.
Futures tip the FTSE 100 to open 0.2 per cent lower in London, while the S&P 500 is expected to open flat in New 
York.
Corporate earnings reports out on Monday include Randgold (07.00) and Ryanair (07.00).
The economic calendar is light (all times London):
•
07.00: Germany factory orders
•
07.00: Norway industrial production
•
09.00: UK car registrations
Fast Europe Open: Banks make bank
•
14.00: Mario Draghi speaks to European Parliament
•
15.30: Theresa May reports on EU summit in House of Commons
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair : eye to the Main chance
Ryanair: eye to the Main chance
 
FT.com
February 6, 2017 Monday 3:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 368 words
Body
Flying from London to Frankfurt takes around an hour and 40 minutes. Yet for business types thinking about using 
Ryanair: getting from the airport to the city centre currently takes the same. That looks set to change, with 
implications for the Irish carrier’s rivals.
Ryanair’s market share in Germany is small at about 6 per cent. One reason is that it has not always been cost 
effective to obtain slots at the country’s main airports, many of which are owned by branches of city or regional 
government. That often left  Ryanair serving leisure travellers from airports like Hahn and Weeze. 
Frankfurt is slightly different. The airport’s holding company, Fraport, is controlled by the state and city, but it is also 
quoted — and has wised up to the fact that it is losing customers to nearby rivals such as Cologne. Low-cost 
carriers account for just 4 per cent of Frankfurt’s passengers and turmoil in Turkey has dented traffic; passenger 
numbers were down 1.2 per cent in the nine months to September. It has every incentive to find new customers. 
From March, Ryanair will base two aircraft at Frankfurt am Main, flying once-daily to four Iberian holiday 
destinations. This might look insignificant next to the squadrons of Lufthansa jets stationed there, but the expansion 
template is familiar. Ryanair set up in Berlin with five planes in 2015; now it has nine there. Across its network, it is 
switching from secondary to primary airports mainly to increase its appeal to business customers. And its third-
quarter results, announced Monday, show it can afford its big expansion push. Yes, fares are falling because of 
overcapacity. But costs are too; for the year to March 2018, Ryanair has hedged 85 per cent of its fuel costs at $49 
per barrel and last year it agreed a pay deal with staff. 
Lufthansa, by contrast, is still embroiled in a bitter dispute with its pilots and is helping to prop up tottering 
compatriot Air Berlin via a lease deal. It has little prospect of matching Ryanair’s average €33 fare. 
Ryanair : eye to the Main chance
That may not have mattered so much when the low-cost carrier was banished to secondary airports; it will become 
more of a problem as the upstart moves into established hubs.
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
FT Opening Quote: Profits down at Ryanair
FT Opening Quote: Profits down at Ryanair
 
FT.com
February 6, 2017 Monday 8:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1135 words
Byline: Siona Jenkins
Body
Profits down at Ryanair, soaring profits at Randgold and Ithaca Energy agrees Delek takeover bid. FT Opening 
Quote, with commentary by Matthew Vincent, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for the full 
newsletter here.
Ryanair shareholders have been looking to Europe. This being Ryanair, they have probably been doing so via a 
departures board at Stansted reading ‘Wait In Lounge’ for the past three hours (I haven’t forgotten about 
Christmas). But Europe looms large, if only metaphorically.
At the start of the year, Merrill Lynch advised clients to sell Ryanair shares, saying the rise of protectionism in 
Europe could stunt its ability to win market share. Then came news that shareholders could be ordered to sell their 
stakes to EU nationals to meet a condition of its licence that it is majority owned by Europeans. It is currently 60 per 
cent owned by EU nationals, but this will fall to 40 per cent once UK shareholders are excluded.
This morning,  Ryanair showed that the former problem continues. It had to cut fares “sharply” in the last quarter to 
stimulate demand in Europe, where falling yields were exacerbated by the fall in sterling following the Brexit vote. 
As a result, third quarter post-tax profit fell 8 per cent to €95m, as average fares fell by 17 per cent to just €33 per 
passenger.
However, traffic grew 16 per cent to 29m customers, and the low-cost airline was able to lower unit costs by 12 per 
cent, half of which was cheaper fuel.
FT Opening Quote: Profits down at Ryanair
Despite the challenges in Europe, Ryanair said it still forecasts strong growth on the continent in 2017 with more 
new bases and routes still to be added. But it warned that it expects sterling to remain volatile for some time, with 
slowdown in economic growth in both the UK and Europe as we move closer to Brexit.
As a result, its outlook for the rest of the financial year is cautious. With less than 2 months of the year to go, and 
Easter falling later, Ryanair expect Q4 yields to decline by as much as -15 per cent. Full year profit guidance 
remains in the range of €1.30bn to €1.35bn, but would be at risk if there are any “unforeseen security events”.
Ryanair has targeted winning up to 20 per cent of the German aviation market by seats, from about 5 per cent, and 
in November became the first budget airline to use Frankfurt Airport as a base.
This morning it said only that its load factor active and price strategy should continue to “win market share from all 
higher cost EU competitor airlines”.
Randgold Resources has not been waiting around. Despite having to spend time last month negotiating an end to 
an “illegal” sit-in at one of its sites on the Ivory Coast, it has been very much on the move. This morning it reported 
a “record breaking” year for production.
In its full-year results, the gold miner said it had increased production for a sixth successive year in 2016 while 
reducing total cash cost per ounce. Profit came in at $294.2m, an increase of 38 per cent, allowing the board to 
approve a 52 per cent increase in the dividend to $1.00 per share. Randgold has now increased its dividend every 
year since 2006.
Much of the performance was driven by the Loulo-Gounkoto mile in Mali, where gold production exceeded annual 
guidance by 37 000 ounces at its lowest ever total cash cost per ounce. Overall, the group’s total cash cost per 
ounce of $639 was down 6% on the previous year.
Even the Tongon mine in Ivory Coast achieved its “revised” production guidance and reduced its total cash cost per 
ounce.
Chief executive Mark Bristow noted that Randgold had passed its net cash target of $500m, with $516.3m in the 
bank at the end of 2016, and no debt.
And finally, Ithaca Energy has said it has agreed a cash takeover bid from shareholder Delek, at £1.20 per share or 
US$646m – giving the business an enterprise value of US$1.24bn. This represents a 12 per cent premium to the 
closing share price on Friday.
Delek is an Israeli listed conglomerate with significant natural gas exploration and production activities in the 
Eastern Mediterranean and an existing 19.7 per cent shareholder in Ithaca.
Brad Hurtubise, Non-Executive Chairman, commented:
“We are very pleased to announce the Offer, which provides an attractive opportunity for all shareholders to 
secure a premium cash value for their investment following a sustained period of share price growth and at a 
favourable point in the Company’s evolution.”
Beyond the Square Mile
Asian markets were feeling the effects of a strong jobs report in the US last week. On Monday afternoon trading 
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng was up 0.6 per cent,China’s Shanghai Composite 0.4 per cent and the technology-
focused Shenzhen Composite 0.7 per cent. The only exception was Australia’s S&P/ASX 200, which finished the 
day down 0.1 per cent.
In New York on Friday the S&P 500 gained 0.7 per cent, closing less than 1 point away from its record high set last 
month, after data showed the US economy added 227,000 jobs in January — topping forecasts. Financial stocks 
rallied after the announcement by US president Donald Trump and National Economic Council chairman Gary Cohn 
FT Opening Quote: Profits down at Ryanair
that they would review of the Dodd-Frank legislation, the landmark financial reform law introduced in 2010 that 
includes prohibitions on financial institutions trading for their own benefit.
The US dollar index was 0.1 per cent weaker at 99.759 and facing its first decline in four sessions.
Gold was 0.2 per cent firmer at $1,223.20 an ounce, helped by the weaker greenback.
Oil prices pushed higher with Brent crude, the international benchmark, up 0.3 per cent at $56.98 a barrel and West 
Texas Intermediate up 0.3 per cent at $54.
Intraday
In the US later in the day the S&P 500 is expected to open flat.
Today’s economic calendar is light (all times London):
09.00: UK car registrations
14.00: Mario Draghi speaks to European Parliament
15.30: Theresa May reports on EU summit in House of Commons
The markets at 08:00
Asian markets
Nikkei 225 up +58.51 (+0.31%) at 18,977
Topix up +5.43 (+0.36%) at 1,520
Hang Seng up +208.39 (+0.90%) at 23,338
US markets
S&P 500 up +16.57 (+0.73%) at 2,297
DJIA up +186.55 (+0.94%) at 20,071
Nasdaq up +30.57 (+0.54%) at 5,667
European markets
Eurofirst 300 up +7.89 (+0.55%) at 1,436
FTSE100 up +47.55 (+0.67%) at 7,188
CAC 40 unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 4,825
Dax unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 11,651
Currencies
€/$ 1.08 (1.08)
$/¥ 112.72 (112.70)
£/$ 1.25 (1.25)
€/£ 0.8617 (0.8625)
Commodities ($)
Brent Crude (ICE) up +0.16 at 56.97
Light Crude (Nymex) up +0.18 at 54.01
100 Oz Gold (Comex) up +4.80 at 1,223
Copper (Comex) up +0.02 at 2.63
10-year government bond yields (%)
US 2.46%
Germany 0.41%
CDS (closing levels)
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe bps at 19.91bp
FT Opening Quote: Profits down at Ryanair
Markit iTraxx Europe -0.47bps at 71.44bp
Markit iTraxx Xover -5.14bps at 290.79bp
Markit CDX IG -1.75bps at 63.82bp
Sources: FT, Bloomberg, Markit
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Poland ’s progress
Poland’s progress
 
FT.com
February 3, 2017 Friday 10:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1094 words
Byline: Jancis Robinson
Body
For most of my adult life, the only European country I had never visited was Poland. Unlike most other Europeans, 
Poles neither made serious wine nor seemed to me to have much interest in drinking it. The only intersection of 
wine and Poland I was aware of was the 19th-century migration of vine-growing Silesians to the Barossa Valley in 
South Australia in response to religious persecution. 
But recently and rapidly, Poland has been developing a wine culture. Sales of still wine there have increased by 
almost 60 per cent in the past 10 years. When I finally went there last autumn, I was told that Poland had more wine 
bars than Germany. My hosts were not perhaps the most objective. I was invited to Krakow (where, incidentally, 
possibly coincidentally, the wine-buying decisions for British Airways are now made) by Czas Vina, one of two 
glossy consumer wine magazines that are now published in Poland — the same number as in Britain, and one 
more than in France. 
I’m sure I was far from the only first-time British visitor to Poland to be struck by how prosperous both town and 
country looked — more so than many parts of the UK. Presumably, wine drinking is a reflection of that prosperity, 
and of all those Ryanair miles travelled by Poles today.
While there I met members of the association of Polish women in wine, Kobiety I Wino, and have never come 
across a more active group of wine professionals. But, partly thanks to climate change, Poland is now producing as 
well as consuming wine. In the early Middle Ages, Poland was an active vine grower but when cooler temperatures 
set in, beer and spirits took over. Although some Silesians in the far south-west of what is now Poland (then 
Poland ’s progress
Prussia) made wine for their own consumption, Poles were principally wine importers, particularly of Hungarian 
wines and especially of the famous dessert wine Tokaji. 
From the 16th to the 18th century, Hungarian wine was regarded as more attractively sweet, spicy and robust than 
wimpy French wine and many a merchant, especially in Krakow in the south of the country, would import Tokaji in 
barrel, improving it, in their view, by ageing it (and heaven knows what else). Even today, a Polish saying has it that 
there is no wine above Hungarian wine. 
With the partition of Poland at the end of the 18th century, trade with Hungary eased and French wine became so 
fashionable that some Polish aristocrats sold off their Tokaji, including wines that were then more than a century 
old. But the Warsaw merchant Fukier amassed the world’s finest collection of Tokaji, with wines going back to 1606. 
Unfortunately Fukier, like so many, went bankrupt in the 1920s, and what remained of the collection was looted by 
Germans and then Russians so that the precise whereabouts of the bottles is a mystery even to my Tokaji-
specialist wine historian colleague Hugh Johnson. Fukier today is a well known restaurant and location of some of 
the many wine events that take place in modern Poland.
I was a little surprised to spend my first few hours in Poland 150 metres below ground in a salt mine. But it is one of 
the jewels of the flourishing Krakow tourist industry, and is a Unesco world heritage site, no less. The vast church 
hollowed out of the salt mine is a popular location for weddings. My tour had a wine bent that included a first-class 
lunch served by top- quality waiting staff in a salty grotto after an aperitif of Philipponat’s Clos des Goisses single-
vineyard champagne. The wines with lunch were provided, and personally presented, by Agnieszka Wyrobek-
Rousseau, whose Wieliczka vineyards are nearby. Hers are the only Polish plantings to rely entirely on the 
European vinifera vine species. The Chardonnay was entirely recognisable and a first-crop Merlot — reaching 12 
per cent alcohol with no alcohol-boosting sugar added to the fermentation vat — even creditable. 
Most of the vines planted in the harshly continental climate of Poland are hybrids such as Solaris, Rondo and 
especially Regent (regarded as usefully compatible with French oak ageing), which ripen early enough to escape 
the predations of a Polish winter. But the red burgundy grape Pinot Noir — plants from the Geisenheim wine 
research institute in Germany — is becoming popular. There are already more than 150 officially registered 
commercial vineyards with about 200 hectares of vines between them (the comparable figures for England and 
Wales in 2013 were 537 and 1,571 respectively). 
But wine is now so popular with Poles and there are so many new plantings not yet in production that some 
observers reckon it will not be long before the Polish vignoble totals 1,000 hectares. 
Wyrobek-Rousseau is one of only two trained oenologists in Poland but I also met Roman Mysliwiec, who planted 
vines as many as 35 years ago. He was one of the first dozen or so Polish vintners of the modern era and now 
advises many new entrants into the vinous fray. 
Most plantings are in the south of the country but there is one vineyard on the northern coast where the relatively 
maritime climate helps extend the growing season. Polish vintners enjoyed their balmiest season yet in 2015 but 
there were some nasty shocks last year.
Even the most optimistic Polish wine lovers admit that probably only about a million consumers out of the country’s 
population of more than 38 million are responsible for the boom. But they certainly could not be keener. The global 
educator, the Wine & Spirit Education Trust, works with four wine schools in Poland. I enjoyed my time there and, in 
the 16 Polish wines I had a chance to taste, saw great sincerity in combating the severity of the climate. 
Polish cider, incidentally, is also enjoying a boom, since Russia, which once imported 70 per cent of Poland’s apple 
production, no longer does. Drinking Polish cider is apparently seen as a patriotically anti-Russian activity, just like 
drinking Georgian wine. 
Remarkable Polish wines
• Palac Mierzecin Riesling 2015
Poland ’s progress
This did taste like Riesling.
•Turnau Riesling 2015
Off-dry, recognisably Riesling again. Large estate in the north-west part-owned by a well-known singer.
•Srebrna Góra, Inspira Volcano 2013
Fiery, Hungarian-inspired white made from the German hybrid Hibernal, most common in the Czech Republic.
•Milosz Pinot Noir 2014
Surprisingly burgundian, made by a journalist turned poet.
•Wieliczka Merlot 2015
Very respectable varietal from the only vinifera-only producer.
•Golesz, Feromer 2011 
Not really a 2011, but a fortified blend of 2009 and 2013!
Tasting notes on  JancisRobinson.com
Illustration by Graham Roumieu
Load-Date: February 15, 2017
End of Document
Airline investors face forced share sale after Brexit
Airline investors face forced share sale after Brexit
 
FT.com
January 27, 2017 Friday 10:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 669 words
Byline: Paul McClean in Brussels
Body
Some Ryanair and easyJet shareholders could be ordered to sell their stakes to EU nationals after  Brexit if airlines 
are forced to use drastic legal powers in the scramble to comply with the bloc’s foreign ownership rules.  
Once Britain leaves the union, both low-cost airlines are currently set to breach a strict condition of their European 
licences and flying rights, which requires majority control and ownership by EU nationals.  
Dublin-registered Ryanair is 60 per cent owned by EU nationals, but this will fall to 40 per cent once UK 
shareholders are excluded. EasyJet is now 84 per cent owned by EU nationals, but this will fall to 49 per cent after 
Brexit, provided the shares of founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou — a dual UK and Cypriot national — are classed as EU-
owned. Mr Haji-Ioannou’s shares are now classed as UK-owned to meet the airline’s own restrictions on ownership, 
but if this continues easyJet’s shares will be just 16 per cent EU-owned.  
Both Ryanair and easyJet have extraordinary provisions in their articles of association to force investors to sell up, 
should they fail to lift their shareholder base above the 50 per cent threshold. Ryanair is planning first to target 
those shareholders who failed to fill out their nationality forms within the required time, according to company 
documents.  
The prospect of such mandatory share sales is one of many legal problems facing the industry in the wake of Brexit 
as Britain attempts to refashion the thicket of regulations and treaties underpinning international airline markets.  
Airline investors face forced share sale after Brexit
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, has warned that the rules will cause “chaos in the airline industry”. 
“We’d no longer be a European airline with rights to fly anywhere,” he told Fortune magazine after last June’s 
referendum.  
IAG, the parent company of British Airways, also has provisions to force non-EU shareholders to divest within 10 
days in the event of their licence coming under threat, but it declined to say what percentage of its shareholder base 
would be EU-national post-Brexit. Mr O’Leary has claimed that IAG will face the same problems as his company.  
Under their company rules, Ryanair, easyJet and IAG can issue a “restricted share notice” to non-EU shareholders, 
depriving the holder of the right to attend, vote and speak at general meetings, and requiring the holder to sell the 
shares to an EU national within a number of days.  
Ryanair says it will first look at shareholders who have not declared their nationality, or who have failed to answer 
the question of their nationality within the “specified time periods” required. It will then target the most recently 
registered non-EU shareholders.  
Aviation lawyers say airlines will search for alternative means of complying with the rule, including share buybacks 
and courting those in EU shareholder bases.  
They add that airlines may also look at existing shareholders with dual-nationalities, or encourage asset managers 
to switch the funds in which the shares are held. “The funds are very good at moving into Frankfurt, Dublin, Milan 
and places like that,” said Neil Sorahan, Ryanair’s chief financial officer, in September.  
But experts say airlines will use the option to force a shareholder to divest if they need to. “They’ll try everything 
else first, and requiring divestiture is the most draconian measure,” one aviation lawyer said. “But if that’s what it 
takes, that’s what they’ll do.”  
EasyJet declined to comment, and Ryanair said it was “too early to say for sure” what action it would take. IAG said: 
“We will continue to comply with the relevant ownership and control regulations.”  
Thomas van der Wijngaart, legal director at Clyde & Co, said: “The divestiture clause exists because non-
compliance with the ownership rule would result in a carrier’s competent authority revoking or suspending its 
operating licence. This would mean that the unrestricted right to carry passengers, mail and cargo on a commercial 
basis within the EEA would fall away.”  
Load-Date: January 30, 2017
End of Document
Exiles in Ireland find a home from home
Exiles in Ireland find a home from home
 
FT.com
January 24, 2017 Tuesday 5:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 775 words
Byline: Laura Noonan
Body
He has been in Ireland for less than a year but Citibank Europe’s chief executive Zdenek Turek is already 
accustomed to flying Ryanair for some business trips and using a “Lovely Day for a Guinness” coaster to rest his 
teacup.
Over the coming years, hundreds, or even thousands, of Mr Turek’s former neighbours in Canary Wharf may follow 
him across the Irish Sea if the UK loses access to the EU’s single market and businesses look for new EU bases. 
Since the UK’s referendum vote in favour of leaving the EU last June, Mr Turek has been inundated with calls from 
a range of people concerned with the issue of shifting jobs from London. 
The Czech native, who oversees a Citibank headcount of 2,500 in Ireland and 9,000 across Europe, has been quick 
to calm some of the bankers’ most common concerns, among them Ireland’s housing shortage. 
It took him just three weeks to find a flat in Dublin’s fashionable Grand Canal Dock area, best known for its 
proximity to the offices of tech giants Google, Facebook and LinkedIn. Grand Canal Dock is also less than a 
kilometre from Citi’s office in Ireland’s financial centre and is home to a theatre. 
“I find the city quite cultural and really flexible, you can get tickets two days in advance [for theatre], not like in 
London,” he says.
Mr Turek’s wife and children have not yet joined him in Dublin because of school arrangements. However, he has 
been looking at family homes and is encouraged by what is on offer. 
Exiles in Ireland find a home from home
He is also positive about the supply of office space in Dublin, which is another potential constraint that banks, 
insurers and other financial service groups fear they could face if they were to move their headquarters or more 
activities to the Irish capital — a much smaller city than both London and rival relocation sites such as Paris. 
“We have . . . a big conference room on the fifth floor from where I can see most of the city, and the number of 
cranes that popped up in the last year is significant,” he says. This construction is “well under way” to addressing 
any concerns about a property shortfall. 
However, Mr Turek advises that adopting a “brass plate” approach — where an entity is registered in a country for 
regulatory and tax purposes but has minimal levels of staff — is not an option for financial institutions looking for a 
post-Brexit haven. 
“In today’s regulatory environment, the regulator simply would not allow it,” says Mr Turek. “They [the Central Bank 
of Ireland] have a very strong concept that the minds and hearts of the business have to be where the business is.” 
When Citi picked Ireland as the location for its European retail banking headquarters in 2014, the bank already had 
a 50-year history in Ireland that has included the building of a significant transaction services business and an 
innovation centre. Citi’s Irish balance sheet has now crossed the €50bn threshold, putting it under the joint 
supervision of Ireland’s regulators and the European Central Bank.
“This is a country that can afford to have certain demands on the people coming in,” says Mr Turek. “The economic 
growth is up, the crisis is behind us, the government is thinking long term and wants to have sustainable business 
here.”
The country’s local financial crisis prompted an exodus of foreign banks including Lloyds’ Bank of Scotland and 
Danske’s National Irish Bank, alongside the collapse of Anglo Irish Bank and the merger of building society EBS 
into AIB.
In spite of this contraction, Citibank is not ready to take the plunge into operating as a local retail bank itself. “We 
have nothing against the Irish retail market, we just believe it is well banked,” says Mr Turek.
Even so, Mr Turek foresees “steady” growth in Ireland for Citibank, especially in transaction and investor services. “I 
can imagine that we will be adding 100 to 200 people per year to our headcount in Ireland, but that depends on 
trends and economic opportunities that are still to be decided in Europe.”
Citibank’s European chief accepts that though Dublin may benefit from relocations from London that result from 
Brexit, the wider Irish economy could suffer as a consequence of disruption to the trading ties between Ireland the 
UK. But he is optimistic: “There is enough resilience in the Irish economy to cope even if there is a tough outcome 
of the Brexit [negotiations],” he says. 
He expects Dublin to remain a popular destination for foreign Citi staffers, as well as for Irish bankers who want to 
go home and locals who join the bank in Dublin and go on to build international careers. “People look at it as a 
career opportunity,” he says. “The city is very liveable, the infrastructure is good.”  
Load-Date: March 30, 2017
End of Document
Scores of flights cancelled in London ahead of snowstorm
Scores of flights cancelled in London ahead of snowstorm
 
FT.com
January 12, 2017 Thursday 12:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 330 words
Byline: Robert Wright
Body
London’s first forecast snow of the winter forced the capital’s two busiest airports to cancel scores of flights on 
Thursday, in a decision that Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, said showed the urgent need for further 
runway capacity in south-east England.
Heathrow Airport cancelled 80 of the 1,350 flights due to operate into and out of the airport on Thursday, while 
Gatwick cancelled four of its 642 scheduled flights, reports Robert Wright in London.
The airports took the decision in light of a warning from the Met Office of sleet and snow as low temperatures in late 
afternoon and early evening turned the day’s light rain wintry.
Heathrow said it had cancelled the flights in consultation with airlines and Nats, the air traffic control service, 
because the snow would reduce the number of aircraft able to take off and land each hour. The decision would 
allow airlines to rebook affected passengers onto unallocated seats on other flights, the airport said.
The pre-emptive cancellations should ensure there were no last-minute cancellations, which were more likely to 
leave passengers stranded, the airport said.
Gatwick also attributed its cancellations to restrictions imposed by air traffic controllers.
Both Heathrow, which has two runways, and Gatwick, which has one, operate at very close to full capacity, 
meaning that any disruption quickly leads to delays and cancellations.
Scores of flights cancelled in London ahead of snowstorm
David O’Brien, chief commercial officer for Ryanair, the low-cost airline, remarked on the cancellations at a press 
conference in London. The event was held to promote Ryanair’s plans to open new routes this year from London 
Stansted, the capital’s third-busiest airport. Mr O’Brien said the cancellations showed the UK government should 
allow all three big airports in south-east England – including Stansted, which has only one airport – to build an extra 
runway. The Department for Transport in October announced it was granting permission only for Heathrow to build 
a new facility.
Load-Date: January 12, 2017
End of Document
How an ECB taper plays out for eurozone equities
How an ECB taper plays out for eurozone equities
 
FT.com
January 4, 2017 Wednesday 12:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 236 words
Byline: Jamie Chisholm
Body
Is there a “taper playbook” that can apply to European stocks as investors ponder less ECB largesse, asks Morgan 
Stanley’s global equity strategy team.
The bank analysed US stock marketperformance in the three months following the Federal Reserve’s hint at 
tapering in May 2013.
“In the first month following the Fed’s hint at tapering, interest rate sensitive, high dividend yield sectors (real estate, 
utilities, telecoms) materially underperformed in the US, while financials, technology and industrials were the best 
performers,” Morgan Stanley said.
Momentum continued over the next two months, with banks the best performing industry group over the whole 
period and “besides high yielding industries, consumer durables were a notable underperformer”.
The bank also found that the first month after the tapering hint was characterised as risk off, where “low beta, 
high/moderate quality, and mega/large-caps outperformed high beta, junk, and small-caps”. 
But the next two months saw those moves all reverse.
Assuming this US taper playbook is applicable to Europe, MorgStan ran the numbers. The favourable list of low 
yielding but attractively valued stocks is an eclectic mix that includes Ryanair, Thyssen Krupp, Vestas, Peugeot and 
a smattering of financials.
How an ECB taper plays out for eurozone equities
The unfavourable screen of high yielders and “unattractive forward price/earning ratios” includes Vodafone, Statoil, 
Vivendi, Ericsson and Unibail-Rodamco.
Load-Date: January 30, 2017
End of Document
Fast Europe Open: FTSE 100 at a record high
Fast Europe Open: FTSE 100 at a record high
 
FT.com
January 4, 2017 Wednesday 5:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 140 words
Byline: Peter Wells
Body
UK and European stocks look set to gain on Wednesday in the wake of the FTSE 100 posting another record high 
in the previous session.
It has been a good day for Japan, where stocks gained more than 2 per cent after a long weekend. Australia’s 
S&P/ASX 200 closed 0.1 per cent higher and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng was down 0.1 per cent.
London’s FTSE 100 is expected to rise 18 points to 7,195.6 at the open, while Germany’s Dax is tipped to gain 23 
points to 11,606.8 and France’s Cac 40 should add 11 points to 4,910.1, according to futures pricing from IG 
Markets.
On the corporate calendar are sales updates from Next and Ryanair. PMI readings and inflation dominate the 
economic calendar (London times):
•
07.45: French consumer confidence
•
08.00: Spain jobs market
•
08.15: Spain PMI
•
08.45: Italy PMI
•
08.50: France PMI
•
09.00: Eurozone PMI
•
10.00: Eurozone CPI
Fast Europe Open: FTSE 100 at a record high
Load-Date: January 4, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair left behind as FTSE extends record run
Ryanair left behind as FTSE extends record run
 
FT.com
January 3, 2017 Tuesday 9:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 467 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
The London market began 2017 much as it ended 2016, with the FTSE 100 extending its record-breaking run. But 
Ryanair was left behind.
Merrill Lynch advised clients to sell Ryanair, saying the rise of protectionism in Europe could stunt its ability to take 
market share from flag carriers. The shares slipped 2.5 per cent to €14.17. 
“We see increasing evidence that European governments, specifically in Germany, are looking to protect their 
national legacy carriers, given their significant employee catchments,” said Merrill. “To serve this purpose, we think 
regional regulators may focus their attentions on Ryanair’s pilot staffing strategies in 2017, as a means of 
attempting to stifle Ryanair’s market share land-grab.”
Ryanair has targeted winning up to 20 per cent of the German aviation market by seats, from about 5 per cent, and 
in November became the first budget airline to use Frankfurt Airport as a base. German authorities have since May 
been investigating whether Ryanair’s  use of pilot agencies breached tax and employment laws. 
 Dollar strength helped power a sixth straight gain for the wider market, with the FTSE 100 up 0.5 per cent or 35.06 
points to a record high of 7,177.89.
But retailers were under pressure ahead of Christmas trading update season, scheduled to begin with Next on 
Wednesday. 
Ryanair left behind as FTSE extends record run
Deutsche Bank’s 2017 retail sector preview advised avoiding sectors vulnerable to competition online, such as 
apparel. The broker removed Next (down 4.3 per cent to £47.70) from its “buy” list and cut both Halfords (down 5.6 
per cent to 345p) and Debenhams (off 3.9 per cent to 55.05p) to “sell”.
“There are two overarching, and inescapable, themes for the retail sector in 2017,” Deutsche told clients. “Firstly, 
we expect consumer demand to soften, especially in the UK where we forecast household discretionary spend 
growth to slow from 5.4 per cent in 2016 to 4.2 per cent in 2017, due to higher non-discretionary inflation. Secondly, 
cost of goods inflation should increase, though we think this can generally be handled without retailers feeling too 
much margin pain. The least-bad option is likely to be to raise prices.”
Barclays led a Europe-wide rally for the banking sector, up 3.8 per cent to 231.9p. The gains followed news that the 
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision had postponed a meeting because it could not find a consensus on how 
to impose capital requirements. 
InterContinental Hotels hit a record high, up 1.3 per cent to £36.84, with Barclays turning positive on a £40 target 
price. Its upgrade was pinned on signs of an upturn in US demand and a possible $350m cash return with full-year 
results, which would be seen as “particularly significant since it would be unrelated to one-off asset sales and 
instead reflect the underlying cash generative-business model”.
Load-Date: January 30, 2017
End of Document
Norwegian ’s plans for new transatlantic routes to help shrink costs
Norwegian’s plans for new transatlantic routes to help shrink costs
 
FT.com
January 2, 2017 Monday 11:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 680 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Plans by Norwegian Air Shuttle to introduce transatlantic flights to secondary airports will help to slash costs at the 
airline, one of the most expensive European budget operators, its chief executive has said.
Bjørn Kjos was speaking as his airline, a pioneer in long-haul no-frills flying, prepares to launch innovative services 
between regional European airports and minor eastern US hubs over the course of 2017. The operation will use 
single-aisle jets normally used only for short-haul operations and, like many of Norwegian’s activities, has been 
made possible by the arrival of a new generation of fuel-efficient aircraft.
Norwegian plans to introduce an ultra-low fare of £56 for a one-way flight between Edinburgh and a secondary 
airport in New York later this year.
The introduction of the new services between cities such as Edinburgh, Cork and Stewart International Airport, 
approximately 70 miles upstate of New York City, or Providence, Rhode Island, would bring down Norwegian’s 
costs, which are currently around 4.3 euro cents per available seat kilometre, a standard industry metric. That could 
bring it closer to the roughly 3.6 euro cents that analysts calculate as the cost for Ireland’s Ryanair, the industry cost 
leader, which does not release its own comparable figures.
“We’re very confident,” said Mr Kjos. “We see that our long-haul is working and the more efficient an operation we 
have, the more aircraft we can put in long haul, the less costs we will have.”
Norwegian ’s plans for new transatlantic routes to help shrink costs
The company’s costs would be divided across more passengers after long-haul expansion, Mr Kjos added. The 
flights to secondary airports will be operated with Boeing’s new, highly efficient 737 MAX aircraft. From 2019, 
Norwegian plans to start operating a new, longer-range version of Airbus’s A321, the manufacturer’s largest single-
aisle product. Both offer sharply improved fuel economy over earlier aircraft so have the range to fly from Europe to 
eastern US.
“We fly extremely modern aircraft,” Mr Kjos said. “That’s the key with cost in long-haul.”
Norwegian’s current long-haul operations — which include many from London Gatwick to destinations such as Fort 
Lauderdale — use Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner.
The low costs of the new operation will offset some of the high expenses of Norwegian’s current operation. It runs 
an extensive short-haul network around Scandinavia, which has some of the world’s highest costs. It also operates 
in and out of large numbers of main airports, which tend to be far more expensive than lightly used secondary 
airports.
Many of the planned new flights have been made possible because in December Norwegian secured a foreign air 
permit from the US’s Department of Transportation. The permit recognises Norwegian, based in non-EU Norway, 
as an Irish-based EU airline under the “open skies” treaty between the US and EU. The airline could previously fly 
to the US only from Norway and the UK, where the airline had secured a separate Air Operators’ Certificate. 
The application was controversial among US airlines and with US labour unions, who regarded the airline as 
undercutting wage rates, partly by hiring many of its staff from low-cost Asian countries. The application took three 
years — far longer than normal — to gain approval.
Mr Kjos said the new permit would allow Norwegian to fly large numbers of tourists from Asian or South American 
countries to Europe and then continue with the same aircraft and crew to the US.
“We didn’t have that possibility before,” Mr Kjos said.
However, Mr Kjos rejected the idea that Norwegian risked becoming a victim of the incoming US administration of 
Donald Trump, who sounded sceptical when campaigning about open trade relationships such as the EU-US treaty. 
He said the airline was bringing both tourists and employment to the US. It has already opened crew bases in Fort 
Lauderdale and New York and plans to open two more.
“Imagine how many jobs we support by flying into the US,” Mr Kjos said. “We support a lot of jobs in restaurants 
and hotels. I’m very surprised if the government doesn’t want those types of jobs.”
Load-Date: January 4, 2017
End of Document
Economics class: teaching ideas
Economics class: teaching ideas
 
FT.com
January 1, 2017 Sunday 5:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1102 words
Body
Recommended FT articles and tasks picked by our panel of teacher advisers to help improve  exam and interview 
success, with suggestions on questions for class activities and discussion. 
Read a selection of  FT articles, sample exam questions and wider teaching materials produced in conjunction with 
Core (free registration required). Read FT articles mapped to the curriculum below:
•
Exchange rates:  Sterling’s faded illusion of sovereignty
•
Development:  Pandemic brings Italy’s black market out of the shadows
•
Economic development:  Latin America’s taxing problem
•
Competition/market structures:  Pain in Spain for telecoms groups as competition heats up
•
Economic Development:  Zambia feels the way for distressed nations in seeking debt talks
•
Distribution of Income and Wealth:  Spain to push through minimum income guarantee to fight poverty
•
Trading blocs:  The chain of events that led to Germany’s change over Europe’s recovery fund
•
Public goods:  Any Covid-19 vaccine must be treated as a global public good
•
Inflation:  A return to 1970s stagflation is only a broken supply chain away
•
Theory of the firm:  Ryanair to axe up to 3,000 jobs as it warns over slow recovery
•
Competition & regulation:  Britain’s private schools warned against fee collusion
•
Price mechanism:  Oil-producing nations grapple with latest price fall
Economics class: teaching ideas
•
Money:  Rishi Sunak prepares to offer 100% guarantees on small business loans
•
Market failure:  Boris Johnson can now redeem his debt to the NHS
•
Circular Flow of Income:  India’s exporters face crunch as coronavirus pummels economy
•
Market structures:  British Airways to suspend more than 30,000 staff amid coronavirus crisis
•
Unemployment:  US jobless claims surge to record 3.3m as America locks down
•
Exchange rates:  Why the Fed is trying to tame the dollar
•
Oligopoly:  Eight days that shook the oil market — and the world
•
Employment:  Germany’s minimum wage boosted productivity but hit small companies
•
Labour markets, government intervention:  Income inequality increases in UK
•
Aggregate demand:  Italy unveils €3.6bn stimulus to tackle coronavirus
•
Elasticities, Market Structures:  Can £5bn revitalise England’s bus services
•
Economic growth and development:  Restructuring Argentina’s debt will require IMF support
•
Market structures:  Climate change and the prisoner’s dilemma
•
Labour markets:  The unions taking on the gig economy and outsourcing
•
Demand & Supply, Exchange Rates, Elasticity:   Commodities may not stay cheap
•
Monetary policy:  US debt investors seek protection against inflation
•
Market/government failure:  Air quality remains dangerously low
•
Supply side policy, capital flows:  Tide turns for Polish émigrés
•
Distribution of income and wealth:  Before we soak the rich
•
Supply & demand:  Fortnum & Mason boosted by demand for loose leaf tea  
•
Macroeconomic objectives:  Iran’s economy strangled under US sanctions
•
Financial markets, exchange rates:  Dollar shortage shakes confidence in Lebanon’s banks
•
Competition and market structures:  Sony pulls plug on PlayStation Vue
•
Developing economies:  Ethiopia’s path to prosperity is opening up
•
Economic Growth, macroeconomic objectives:  UK economy  to avert recession
•
Demand & supply, taxation:  UK’s slowing housing market hits stamp duty
•
Market failure:  French tobacconists fear business will go up in smoke
•
Objectives of firms:  The limits of the pursuit of profits
•
Labour markets:  How does British Airways pilot pay compare
•
Introductory economics:  China acts on pork prices  
•
Fiscal policy:  Javid shift in strategy after decade of austerity
•
Economic cycles:  A long economic recovery is not necessarily a better one
•
Demand and Supply, Market Structures:  Iran warns Opec ‘might die’
•
Trade policies and negotiations:  Mexico ratifies Nafta’s replacement
•
Economic development:  CDC to invest $300m in Africa’s power networks
•
Allocation of resources:  Old economists can teach us new tricks
Economics class: teaching ideas
•
Financial markets:  China dumps US Treasuries
•
Allocation of  resources:  EBRD mulls sub-Saharan Africa loans
•
Demand and supply:  Iran’s economy slumps on US sanctions
•
Circular flow of income:  Fear over UK’s low national savings rate
•
Financial markets:  US mortgage reform
•
Macroeconomic policy:  UK inflation rises 1.9%
•
Money:  The continued appeal of cash
•
Monetary policy:  Monetary policy has run its course
•
Inflation:  UK basket gains popcorn
•
Balance of payments:  US trade deficit
•
Financial markets:  Zimbabwe’s currency reforms criticised
•
Externalities and traffic congestion:  Luxembourg tackles congestion
•
Economic growth and development: IMF funds Ecuador
•
Demand and supply, externalities: university applications rise
•
Trade: China’s economy slows
•
Market structures, nationalisation: rail privatisation
•
Trade, balance of payments: service exports
•
Exchange rates and Brexit
•
The price of fish farms
•
Demand & Supply: stock markets tumble
•
Development, exchange rates: African loans
•
Productivity: zero workforce growth
•
Government intervention: tech regulation
•
Demand & Supply, commodities: oil price fall
•
Market failure: wind and solar costs
•
Supply and demand: oil volatility
•
Supply and demand: chip prices
•
Exchange rates/balance of payments: depreciation dangers
•
Price determination: vanilla
•
Subsidies: UK farmers prepare for Brexit
•
Technological innovation: escooter rentals
•
Public finances: UK near bottom of IMF league
•
Markets, supply/demand: cocoa prices
•
Labour markets: Amazon pay rise 
•
Fed interest rate impact
•
The impact of migration
Economics class: teaching ideas
•
Low wage growth
•
Brexit uncertainty
•
Coca Cola, Costa and economies of scale
•
The end of QE
•
Oligopolies and price discrimination
•
UK productivity
•
Coffee shops and market entry
•
Argentina hikes interest rates
•
Reversing QE
•
Privatisation and nationalisation
•
Audit monopolies
•
Child mortality and development
•
China’s household debt
•
Trade policies and anti-dumping
•
IMF, Kenya and economic policy
•
German trade
•
Sterling weakness
•
British manufacturing recovery
•
France’s declining fertility
•
Venezuela’s imploding economy
•
Measuring GDP
•
Inflation climbs to 3.1%
•
Venezuela debt: US, Russia and China play for high stakes
•
Productivity, smartphones and the crisis of attention
•
Diesel taxes
•
Agriculture and trade after Brexit
•
Monetary policy uncertainty
•
Natural monopolies and regulation
•
Richard Thaler and behavioural economics
•
EU fines Scania for price-fixing cartel
•
Monarch airline’s failure
•
Bank of England and Brexit
•
Brexit-free trade illusions
•
Supply and demand for coal
•
Bank of England interest rates debate
•
Amazon and food retail competition
Economics class: teaching ideas
•
Brexit and the generational divide: a price worth paying
•
EU-Japan trade: the shift in commerce 
•
Retail sales: how external factors influence demand
Load-Date: July 4, 2020
End of Document
Irish airlines face €16m bill from ECJ for illegal state aid
Irish airlines face €16m bill from ECJ for illegal state aid
 
FT.com
December 21, 2016 Wednesday 5:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 297 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
Aer Lingus and Ryanair face a combined bill of at least €16m after the European Court of Justice on Wednesday 
ruled that they had benefited from illegal state aid.
The ECJ  said the two airlines had obtained state aid after the Irish government introduced a controversial air travel 
tax in 2009, at the height of the financial crisis.
The government said airlines would pay €2 per passenger on short-haul flights operated from Dublin, but €10 on 
long-haul flights.
The ECJ concluded that the €8 differential constituted illegal state aid, and must be paid by the airlines to the 
government.
Ryanair said it now faced a bill of €12m as a result of the ECJ judgment, while Aer Lingus estimated it would have 
to pay €4m.
The two airlines said they would pursue the Irish government for damages incurred in having to pay what they said 
was an “illegal” tax.
Ryanair said: “This ruling now clears the way for Ryanair (and other airlines) to pursue our High Court action 
against the Irish government to recover the €88m of damages we suffered as a result of being forced to pay this 
illegal tax.”
Irish airlines face €16m bill from ECJ for illegal state aid
Aer Lingus, owned by International Airlines Group, said it was studying the ECJ judgment and that it was seeking 
“substantial damages” from the Irish government “for losses flowing from the infringement of EU rules on free 
movement of services arising from the air travel tax”.
Ryanair and Aer Lingus opposed the introduction of the tax, arguing that it damaged the travel sector and hurt their 
businesses.
The tax was  introduced seven years ago as Ireland faced a financial crunch following the collapse of much of its 
banking sector.
The ECJ said Ryanair and Aer Lingus benefited from the two-tier travel tax, and rejected the airlines’ claims that it 
was now too late to recoup the €8 differential.
Load-Date: December 22, 2016
End of Document
Busking across Spain in the footsteps of Laurie Lee
Busking across Spain in the footsteps of Laurie Lee
 
FT.com
December 20, 2016 Tuesday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1969 words
Byline: Alastair Humphreys
Body
A year ago I was on a train, rattling slowly through December’s grey towns and leafless landscapes. I was reading a 
book, a tale of bright sunshine, colourful village fiestas, and adventure. I looked up from my book and let out a sigh.
For most of my adult life I have either been wandering the world or reading stories of people wandering the world. 
Laurie Lee’s As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning was one of the books that got me started and I still read it 
almost annually.
Lee arrived in Spain in the summer of 1935. He had never been overseas, had rarely even left the quiet 
Gloucestershire village he grew up in. He was searching for adventure and chose Spain simply because he knew 
one phrase in Spanish — ¿un vaso de agua, por favor? His vague, romantic idea was to walk through the country, 
paying his way by playing his violin. Lee travelled slowly, lived simply, slept on hilltops and relished spontaneity.
Every time I read his story I yearned to follow in Lee’s bucolic footsteps but there was one significant problem. I 
could not play the violin or any other instrument. Even the thought of performing, dancing or singing in public 
terrified me. But the walk without the music would be missing the point.
And so for 15 years I shelved the idea of walking out one midsummer morning in Spain. Instead I embarked on a 
series of physical challenges in remote environments. I cycled round the world for four years. I walked across 
southern India and the Empty Quarter desert. I crossed Iceland. I rowed the Atlantic.
Busking across Spain in the footsteps of Laurie Lee
But the more expeditions I did, the better I became at them. I realised I had begun sticking to what I was good at, 
living precisely the unchallenging, routine life that this was all supposed to help me avoid. The essence of 
adventure is to seek out that which scares you and to risk uncertainty and failure. I realised that if I wanted to 
continue testing myself, I needed to move away from meaningless penances in the wilderness.
As the train rumbled on, I pulled my phone from my pocket. But this time, instead of the escapism of social media, I 
opened Google and typed the words “find a local violin teacher” before I had time to really think.
***
I bought a violin the next morning. An impulsive, flippant email sent while bored on a train had set something in 
motion. Becoming a beginner again was a refreshing experience — I loved the tangible steps of improvement. I 
quickly learned, however, that the violin cannot be quickly learnt.
After seven months I was still appalling. But it was time to begin what promised to be a hungry and deeply 
embarrassing journey. I would catch a Ryanair flight to Vigo, where Lee began his walk, take no money, busk to 
survive, and try to make it all the way to Madrid.
At Vigo airport I sealed my passport, return plane ticket and credit card in a plastic bag with a note to myself saying 
“if you open this before the end you have failed”. From now on it was just me, my violin, and five pitiful tunes that 
most seven-year-old violinists would turn their noses up at. I hoisted my pack on to my back and walked down to 
the harbour. I was more nervous than I had been since the day I set off to row across the Atlantic.
It was a disaster. My songs sounded as pitiful as I knew they would. I deeply regretted this farce. There was no 
crowd, no cascade of coins, no applause. Just indifference, disbelief, laughter or wrinkled noses as people 
accelerated past my empty violin case, eyes averted.
After a fruitless, mortifying hour sawing away in the charming, once peaceful plaza, I saw an elderly man rise from 
his bench and walk slowly towards me. I assumed that he was going to reprimand me. “Enough! Time to move on.” 
But instead he put his hand into his pocket. Surely not! He pulled out a coin and I felt I was going to burst with 
excitement and amusement and relief. A whole euro — and with it hope.
I consulted my map and walked out of Vigo. I had a month to follow Lee’s route as far as Madrid but this was the 
first time I had given much thought to the 500 or so miles ahead — confirmation that walking almost 20 miles a day 
was far less daunting than playing a ditty to a dozen people. Eventually the fierce heat and the hard city streets 
gave way to fragrant eucalyptus woods, views back down the mountains to the sea, and my first night under the 
stars. I cooked rice bought with my first earnings on a tiny fire, eating gratefully from the pan, and fell asleep in a 
field, buzzing with the excitement of beginning.
***
I soon settled into the slow, ageless rhythms of walking journeys that heft you to a landscape: waking at dawn, 
walking through pine forests or hillsides of bracken, chatting with shepherds on dusty white droving roads, 
swimming in trout pools, snoozing in sweet chestnut groves and rolling out my bedding each night. This was the 
same way Lee experienced his Spain. The wayside blackberries, apples and grapes were not yet ripe, taunting my 
hungry belly as I eked out crusts of bread.
I suffered, as Lee had done, across the fiercely hot plains of Castile. Sunflowers marched for miles across the 
empty world, yellow armies of nodding heads and my only companion in those shimmering, lonely miles. Wheat 
fields whispered in the faintest breeze as I trudged towards Toro, in Lee’s words “an ancient, eroded, red-walled 
town spread along the top of a huge flat boulder”. One advantage I had over him was the existence of irrigation 
sprinklers. One scorching afternoon I stripped naked in a cabbage field for a delightful cold shower. All I had to do 
each day was walk, and then work (busk) in order to afford to walk another day. Life was simple. Simple but not 
easy.
Busking across Spain in the footsteps of Laurie Lee
I fretted that my beginner’s luck would expire and my incompetence be shouted out of town. I nervously dragged 
out the process of finding strategic spots to busk, unpacking my violin and arranging my music sheets slowly before 
the first violent screech shattered the town’s peace and my happy anonymity. The thrill of earning the day’s first 
coin never diminished, however, and I grew increasingly confident with my performances. Declare and embrace 
your vulnerabilities and they cease to be weaknesses.
One hot, still morning I arrived in pretty Puebla de Sanabria on the banks of the meandering Río Castro. My timing 
was fortuitous: it was Sunday and the town was filling with ambling, affable tourists. By the time my patch of shade 
beneath the castle walls had run out and the cobbled streets lulled to siesta stillness I had earned a scarcely 
imaginable €20.05. I feasted on chorizo and ice cream. Then, on my way out of town, I was beckoned over to a 
street party outside a bar. I was fed chicken wings and beer and danced through the tipsy afternoon. My attempt to 
play a duet with the local guitarist was a predictable disaster, but the day was a triumph. I wove my way into the 
sunset, singing happily, feeling like Lee.
Every day I counted my earnings down to the last cent. My total income for the month was €125.40, ample for so 
many miles of memories. In shops I calculated fastidiously, focusing on the calorie-to-price ratio of foods rather than 
their taste appeal.
Despite this frugal existence, or perhaps because of it, I cannot remember when last I felt so self-contained, so sure 
about what I was doing, so content to be in the moment. Every time I played, every time I headed back up into the 
hills with a loaf of bread sticking out of my rucksack, I felt incredibly happy. I whistled Guantanamera (one of my five 
busking tunes) and stamped the rhythm with my hiking poles. I treasured the gift of time as I walked through the 
slow summer.
***
The journey was primarily a solitary experience. I spent day after day on footpaths far from anyone, and even 
accidentally strolled through the high security grounds of the Royal Palace of El Pardo, near Madrid, for a few 
hours. With hindsight my trespass seems obvious, but at the time I thought nothing of it as I climbed a high stone 
wall in order to cross what looked merely like a tantalising expanse of open countryside on my map (the guard who 
eventually spotted me was too surprised to be particularly angry). Above all, standing in a busy street where nobody 
knows your name, playing the same songs very badly in hope of a coin for your supper, is an extremely lonely place 
to be.
Yet the loneliness made the encounters and conversations along the way all the richer. An elderly gentleman sat 
me down on a bench and mused that my journey was akin to the board game La Oca, similar to Snakes and 
Ladders, rolling my dice and taking my chances as I went along my way. One morning I accompanied a postman, 
Marcelino, on his morning round, delivering letters and chatting in the street. He treated me to an espresso at noon.
One evening I was invited to sleep indoors, the only night of the whole trip. Sergio bumped into me just after sunset 
in the quiet village of Matapozuelos, an island amid a flat sea of farmland. A seasoned traveller himself, Sergio was 
excited to hear my story and knew well the impact of kindness on a lonely soul in a foreign land. I accepted 
gratefully — a shower! a bed! — and followed him to his home. Sergio lived with his mother, who was taken aback 
by the dirty vagabond on the doorstep. She fussed that the spare room I would stay in was not sufficiently prepared. 
It was perfect, of course. She studied, unimpressed, the sewing repairs that I had made on my shirt. And then she 
proceeded to fuss over me, mother me and force-feed me terrific quantities of delicious food.
After the disappointment of beautiful Segovia, where the foreign tourists ignored my busking efforts beneath the 
Roman aqueduct and the police moved me on for the only time in the trip, I climbed up into the glory of the Sierra 
de Guadarrama mountains. The sun set to the sound of cowbells and the scent of crushed thyme as I walked a 
Roman road up meadows dotted with oak trees.
“A green haze of pine-dust floated in shafts of sunlight and squirrels swung and chattered above me,” wrote Lee as 
he climbed these same hills. “Gulping the fine dry air and sniffing the pitch-pine mountain I was perhaps never so 
alive and so alone again.”
Busking across Spain in the footsteps of Laurie Lee
Cresting the rocky mountain escarpment, I followed the Río Manzanares down from its source, galloping down a 
grassy bowl of a valley and swimming in deep, clear pools. It was a beautiful end to the wilderness. I would follow 
this river all the way to the capital, only a couple of days’ from here. I savoured the silence of these final few days, 
waking at dawn in forests with the evening cicadas all gone. I would pack up, leave no trace, and be hours down 
the path before first speaking a word.
Arriving at last in the baking heart of Madrid I shrugged off my sweaty rucksack for the final time, flopping down in a 
shaded pavement café. The crowds, the traffic, the heat of the tall avenues all felt unsettling. After a month on the 
road, this was my end. I asked the waiter the cost of a pint. He told me and I headed out to the nearest plaza to 
perform for the final time. Returning to the café with sufficient money I ordered a small celebratory beer.
The first sip exploded in my mouth like frosted stars. I had earned that beer. I truly savoured it. I left the remainder 
of my coins on the bar as a tip, my own small gesture of goodwill to a stranger. I had begun with nothing; I ended 
with nothing.
Part of me wished that my journey could continue for months like Lee’s did. But now that I knew I could busk my 
way across a country, I did not need to keep doing it. Now that it had become just a delightful way of life it was no 
longer a challenge. The purpose of this walk had been the unknowing, the uncertainty and the risk. My summer with 
Laurie Lee had been my most challenging, fresh and surprising adventure in years.
Photographs: Alastair Humphreys
Load-Date: January 4, 2017
End of Document
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
 
FT.com
December 5, 2016 Monday 5:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 780 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
Electrolux’s new chief executive took a beating last week for his excitable comment that the white-goods company 
was testing the idea of “a laundry Uber, where people share their unused laundry time”.
“Aside from anything else, why exactly would an equipment maker want people sharing their washing machines? 
Surely they prefer everyone to buy their own instead?” commented one Financial Times reader. 
I also wanted to hang Jonas Samuelson out to dry. The phrase this is “the Uber for . . . ” has worn as thin as a pair 
of much-laundered underpants. You do not have to search far to find an aspiring Uber for laundry  in China — 
Edaixi — and a defunct one,             Washio, in the US. In the past two years, we have reported on Ubers for water, 
private jets, drones, pot, trash and, indeed, “everything”, not to mention an “Amazon for travel” (Ryanair, since you 
ask) and an “Airbnb for migrants”. 
Stephan Chambers, former chair of Oxford’s Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship, got so fed up with hearing 
new ideas described this way that he outlawed the formula — along with the similarly tired vision of any unlikely 
technology hotspot as “the Silicon Valley of” wherever.
The Uber-for approach may help a few unimaginative venture capitalists picture a new business (or journalists 
describe them). Like the Hollywood movie pitch that shackles together two hits — “It’s The Hunger Games meets 
The King’s Speech!” — it may tempt some to dream of Uber-sized values for an as yet untested concept. But as a 
strategy template, it is distracting, derivative and limiting. 
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
So I am grateful to Mr Samuelson for stopping the spin cycle for corporate comparisons. But I also thank him for the 
reminder that companies must invent different ways of working, not just different things to sell.
Too often, innovation debates focus on new products, particularly ones with superior technology. But as  Alexander 
Osterwalder, who devised the widely used “business model canvas” to help people frame their approach, points 
out, Nintendo’s Wii shook up the games console industry with an inferior technology and a much better business 
model that attracted casual gamers and milked revenues from game licences. 
“Competing on products was last century’s competition; now you need to be able to compete on business model,” 
Mr Osterwalder says. Even companies with long pedigrees of product innovation, such as Post-it note maker 3M, 
now realise they could squeeze even more from their business by re-examining the way they operate, too.
This is where an Uber-for provocation can come into its own. Mr Osterwalder uses Nespresso to prompt clients of 
Strategyzer, the consulting company he founded, to think about how they could shake up their systems. The coffee 
pods and machines were a product innovation for Nestlé, for sure, but they were also a new model, based on 
recurring revenue and direct sales.
Rethinking your business as though constrained by someone else’s model, can also be fruitful. For example, what if 
you had to give away your most successful product? If only newspapers had brainstormed that idea before it came 
expensively — and, for many, catastrophically — true.
Even assuming you hit on an innovative new way of doing business, nobody can afford to stick with it forever. To 
some degree, this has always been true. Sears, the retailer, started as a mail-order company and only began 
building department stores when  threatened by bricks-and-mortar retailers in the 1920s.
A century on, though, the pace at which companies have to reinvent themselves is far more rapid. Amazon — a 
Sears for the online age — is now experimenting with offline bookstores and grocery pick-up hubs. Those 
innovations are founded on the original “everything store”. Amazon Web Services, more radically, has developed 
into the fastest-growing and most profitable part of the group, using the same technology but a different model for 
the sale of computing power in the cloud, on demand.
“We could have stuck to the knitting. I’m glad we didn’t,” Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, said in his most recent  
letter to shareholders, while lauding AWS for adopting the same customer-focused approach as the rest of the 
business. 
As for Uber, it is a fast-developing study in the inadequacy of simply laying out an Uber-for future and sitting back. 
Since it launched as a car-sharing service, the group has branched out into parcel dispatch, food delivery and self-
driving tech. It is running an evolving portfolio of business models. Next time you are tempted to describe an idea as 
the Uber for anything, bear this in mind: Uber itself is no longer just “Uber for” the thing it was once Uber for. 
Twitter:  @andrewtghill
Load-Date: May 26, 2017
End of Document
Lufthansa pilots cool on effort to end strikes
Lufthansa pilots cool on effort to end strikes
 
FT.com
November 30, 2016 Wednesday 6:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 473 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Pilots at Lufthansa on Wednesday rejected a plea to call off strike action after the airline offered fresh concessions 
in an effort to resolve a two-year pay dispute that has caused significant damage to Germany’s flag carrier. 
Lufthansa removed conditions attached to its offer of a 4.4 per cent pay rise over two years and said it would also 
make a one-off payment to staff. 
However, the Vereinigung Cockpit union, which represents the pilots, said it was still considering its response and 
rejected the airline’s request to call off the strike.
“We have received a letter from Lufthansa,” the union said. “Whether we regard it as a formal offer and how we will 
respond to it remains under consideration.”
Lufthansa’s move came on the second of two consecutive days of strike action by pilots belonging to VC. The 
pilots, who want a 3.7 per cent annual pay increase backdated to 2012, also stopped work for four days last week. 
The company said the six strike days had forced it to cancel 4,461 flights affecting more than 525,000 customers, 
about a quarter of the number the airline and subsidiaries such as Swiss and Austrian Airlines would have 
operated.
The airline has been determined to resist the pilots’ demands because it faces growing competition both from low-
cost competitors such as Ryanair and Gulf carriers such as Emirates.
Lufthansa pilots cool on effort to end strikes
Many European airlines have also been battered this year by the effects of Islamist attacks in several countries and 
air traffic disruption caused by strikes, especially in France.
Harry Hohmeister, chief officer for hub management at Lufthansa, said the company had submitted its latest offer to 
VC on Tuesday evening. “We want to urgently avoid any further damage to our company and finally return to 
offering our passengers the kind of service they can expect from us,” he said.
This week’s strike was the latest of 15 bouts of industrial action at Lufthansa since 2014.
John Strickland, an aviation consultant, said it was “incredible” the dispute had dragged on so long. “The figures 
ratcheting up for cancelled flights are enormous in terms of the airline’s performance,” he said.
The carrier had moved with the latest offer, he said, but the evidence supported its case that concessions on the 
scale the union had demanded were unaffordable.
“It we look at the changing landscape, their competition remains intense,” Mr Strickland said. “We see overcapacity 
in a number of markets. Competition is ever increasing in markets like the north Atlantic and Asia.”
Lufthansa needed to make long-term cost savings, he said, or pilots risked winning short-term gains at the expense 
of the airline’s long-term health.
The airline said most of its services would return to normal on Thursday, with around 40 flights expected to be 
cancelled. 
Lufthansa’s shares were down almost 2 per cent in Frankfurt, at €12.23.
Load-Date: December 1, 2016
End of Document
Lufthansa pilots to resume strike after pay talks break down
Lufthansa pilots to resume strike after pay talks break down
 
FT.com
November 27, 2016 Sunday 9:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 418 words
Byline: James Shotter
Body
Pilots at Lufthansa are set to resume their strike this week after hastily arranged talks with the airline failed to make 
any progress towards resolving an increasingly bitter industrial dispute.
The Vereinigung Cockpit pilots’ union said late on Sunday that short-haul pilots would strike all day on Tuesday and 
that both short- and long-haul pilots would walk out on Wednesday. Flights departing from Germany would be 
affected.
Jörg Handwerg, from Vereinigung Cockpit, said that the strike, which ran for four days last week before being 
broken off, was being resumed because Lufthansa had not made an offer “which could form the basis of 
negotiations”.
Lufthansa said that it was “very disappointed” that the union had decided to launch further strikes. “The union is 
sticking with demands that go far beyond what other groups have demanded. That is not acceptable,” the airline 
said.
Lufthansa pilots initially went on strike on Wednesday for 24 hours, in what was their first walkout this year but their 
14th since 2014. They subsequently prolonged the strike three times, before saying that they would not strike on 
Sunday.
In an effort to break the deadlock, Europe’s biggest airline by revenues offered pilots on Friday evening a pay rise 
of 4.4 per cent in two phases this year and next, and a one-off payment worth 1.8 months’ salary.
Lufthansa pilots to resume strike after pay talks break down
As part of the deal,  Lufthansa also wanted pilots to switch from a defined benefit to a defined contribution pension 
plan. Vereinigung Cockpit swiftly rejected the offer as “old wine in new bottles”, pointing out that the airline had 
made a similar offer two months earlier. It reiterated it would not accept any deal in which salary increases were 
cancelled out by savings elsewhere.
As a result of the industrial action, Lufthansa was forced to cancel almost 2,800 flights, or almost a quarter of its 
schedule over the four-day period last week, disrupting the travel plans of about 350,000 passengers.
The union is demanding a pay increase of 3.7 per cent a year backdated to 2012, when the previous wage 
agreement ended, which equates to an overall increase of almost 20 per cent.
Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa’s chief executive, said last week that Lufthansa must face down the strike if it were to 
survive and argued that it needed to cut costs to be able to compete with leaner rivals, such as Ryanair.
Lufthansa said earlier on Sunday that all flights on Monday were expected to operate as normal. The airline plans to 
have a special flight schedule ready by 2pm on Monday.
Load-Date: November 28, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet sets out plan to navigate turbulent path
EasyJet sets out plan to navigate turbulent path
 
FT.com
November 16, 2016 Wednesday 5:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 916 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
When easyJet announced its financial results a year ago, jihadist violence appeared to be the biggest cloud on an 
otherwise bright horizon.
Europe’s second-biggest low-cost airline had just flown thousands of passengers home early from Sharm el-Sheikh, 
in Egypt, after a bomb brought down a Russian aircraft, while four days earlier 130 people had been killed in Paris. 
The £686m pre-tax profit for 2015 nevertheless marked easyJet’s fifth successive record year.
Since then the skies have darkened. EasyJet, led by Dame Carolyn McCall, has been buffeted by further acts of 
violencein some key destinations, disruption from air traffic strikes and the economic and political uncertainty 
triggered by the UK’s Brexit vote.
The airline issued a profit warning four days after the EU referendum, partly because it expected the uncertainty 
would deter people from travelling. On Tuesday it revealed that pre-tax profits dropped 28 per cent, to £495m, in the 
year to September 2016. Its share price has fallen 40 per cent in the past year.
The threat that has generated much of the attention surrounding the airline in recent months is that it loses its 
membership of the single European aviation market — and with it the right to fly many of its routes — once the UK 
leaves the EU. Created in the 1990s, the single market allows EU airlines to operate services on any route within 
the bloc and has been crucial to easyJet’s expansion.
EasyJet sets out plan to navigate turbulent path
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of rival Ryanair, has been quick to highlight the potential risks to easyJet’s 
business if Brexit removes the right of UK-registered airlines to fly wherever they want within the union.
-----------------
1. Record profit after bumper summer
2. Demand falls after Paris terrorist attacks
3. Dividend increased despite first-half loss
4. Shares tumble after Brexit profit warning
5. Pre-tax profits fall by nearly a third
-----------------
Dame Carolyn is not overly worried. “We believe the government will end up achieving agreement between the UK 
and Europe,” she says. “We are the single largest aviation market in Europe and therefore it’s in everybody’s 
interests to have an agreement.”
Even if the UK is shut out of some markets, she says the problem will be solved by setting up a new, EU-based 
subsidiary that will apply for an independent Air Operators’ Certificate. EasyJet already has such an arrangement in 
Switzerland. The airline will register aircraft that fly entirely within the EU with the new company, whose location it 
will decide some time next year.
“By doing this, we secure our own flying rights and we’re in control of our own destiny,” says Dame Carolyn.
John Strickland, an independent aviation consultant, says, however, it is “too early” to foresee the process’s 
outcome. “[EasyJet] has to be very proactive on all fronts because of the very large element of uncertainty it 
contains,” he warns.
Dame Carolyn dismisses suggestions that the past year has revealed strategic weaknesses in the easyJet 
business. She brushes aside the idea that the lower costs of Ryanair give the Irish airline a critical advantage in 
such tough conditions. EasyJet still earned almost £500m in tough conditions, she points out.
“I think our easyJet team have done a really, really good job keeping our customers loyal, growing our ancillary 
revenues, doing everything we can on cost and revenue to ensure we deliver.”
Dame Carolyn is now focusing on maximising returns. Her strategy depends partly on exploiting the airline’s strong 
position at big airports such as Amsterdam Schiphol and Paris Charles de Gaulle, where there is no capacity for 
new competitors such as Ryanair to come in.
“It’s so difficult to replicate,” Dame Carolyn says of the company’s network. “Ninety-eight per cent of what we do 
touches a primary airport where we’re number one or number two.”
She outlines plans for a 9 per cent capacity expansion in the year to September 2017 — a step-up from the 6.6 per 
cent in the last financial year.
She says this will narrow the airline’s cost disadvantage by bringing in bigger, more efficient aircraft. Excluding fuel, 
easyJet’s average cost to operate a seat on a flight — £38.31 (€44.44) — is 59 per cent higher than Ryanair’s €28.
“It’s a very clear strategy,” Dame Carolyn says. “We’ve done a huge amount of analysis on how we make our 
money and where we make our money, even in a tough environment.”
Many industry observers back easyJet’s strategy, given how many of Europe’s higher-cost legacy airlines have 
slipped into loss and face an uncertain future. Analysts at HSBC and Cantor Fitzgerald class the company’s shares 
a buy, while Dublin’s Davy Research has an “outperform” rating.
EasyJet sets out plan to navigate turbulent path
Mr Strickland predicts that both easyJet and Ryanair will emerge from the current turbulence stronger.
“If you look at the total market share of the two together, it still leaves everything to play for, given the weakness of 
competitors that might yet fall by the wayside,” he says.
Over the coming year, 20 per cent of easyJet’s new capacity will come from replacing ageing A319 aircraft — which 
have only 156 seats — with 186-seat A320s. The shift to bigger aircraft will help to close a key gap with Ryanair, 
which operates 189-seat Boeing 737s. 
It is the kind of decision that Dame Carolyn insists is critical if the company is to emerge from the current storms.
“When you have short-term headwinds, people can make real mistakes,” she says. “You have to be brave enough 
to look to the long term to make your company sustainably successful.”
Load-Date: November 17, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet profits fall 28% amid tough conditions
EasyJet profits fall 28% amid tough conditions
 
FT.com
November 15, 2016 Tuesday 9:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 503 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet, the UK’s biggest budget airline by sales, reported a 28 per cent decline in pre-tax profits for the past year 
as it grappled with economic uncertainty, terrorism, air traffic disruption and excess capacity.
Chief executive Dame Carolyn McCall called the performance “resilient” in a year of shocks for the sector. 
The £495m pre-tax profit in the year to September 30 was down from £686m a year earlier but was at the top end 
of the company’s revised forecast range.
EasyJet was forced in June to issue a profit warning in the wake of the UK’s vote to leave the EU. In October, it  
further trimmed pre-tax profit expectations, saying it anticipated a range of £490m to £495m.
Revenue declined 0.4 per cent to £4.67bn.
EasyJet’s figures follow the third-quarter figures from Ryanair, Europe’s biggest budget airline by revenues, which 
recorded post-tax profits up 7 per cent to €1.17bn.  EasyJet is the only significant airline to record its results in 
sterling and has consequently faced far bigger problems as a result of the fall in the value of the pound following the 
referendum. 
“EasyJet achieved a resilient performance in 2016, in the face of significant challenges including a series of external 
events and foreign exchange headwinds,” Dame Carolyn said.
EasyJet profits fall 28% amid tough conditions
The company increased capacity on its flights by 6.5 per cent compared with the previous year, while the number of 
passengers carried increased 6.6 per cent, to 73.1m. Average load factors — the proportion of seats occupied on 
each flight — increased 0.1 percentage points to 91.6 per cent.
Dame Carolyn said passengers during the year had benefited from a third successive year of falling fares — 
revenue per seat declined 6.4 per cent to £58.46. She praised staff for working “diligently” to bring down costs — 
cost per seat declined 2 per cent to £52.26.
The company said it expected to increase capacity in the year to September 2017 by 9 per cent and a decline in its 
fuel bill of between £245m and £275m against this year’s £1.11bn. The company expected this year to spend £5m 
of the total £10m cost of acquiring an air operators’ certificate in another EU country, to ensure the airline could 
continue operations between EU countries once the UK leaves the alliance. The airline already has an AOC in the 
UK and Switzerland.
“Looking ahead, the easyJet model remains strong as does the demand environment and we continue to see 
opportunities in the medium term to grow revenue, profit and shareholder returns,” Dame Carolyn said.
Dame Carolyn said that almost half of the airline’s growth next year would be in the UK, while there would also be 
“significant growth” in Switzerland, France and Italy. The approach contrasts with that of Ryanair, Europe’s biggest 
budget airline, which has reduced its planned growth in the UK and is concentrating on Germany in the wake of the 
Brexit vote.
Earnings per share declined 22 per cent to 108.7p, while the proposed dividend declined 2.5 per cent to 53.8p.
EasyJet shares rose 1.2 per cent to £10.45 on Tuesday.
Load-Date: November 18, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet profits fall but McCall praises ‘resilience’
EasyJet profits fall but McCall praises ‘resilience’
 
FT.com
November 15, 2016 Tuesday 7:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 348 words
Byline: Robert Wright
Body
EasyJet, the UK’s biggest budget airline by sales, achieved pre-tax profits for the year to September 30 at the top 
end of its forecast range, in what Dame Carolyn McCall, its chief executive, called a “resilient” performance in a 
year of shocks for the sector.
However, the £495m figure still marked a 28 per cent decline on the £686m that the group reported for the year to 
September 30 last year and revenue declined 0.4 per cent to £4.67bn.
Like many European airlines, easyJet has been grappling with a mixture of economic uncertainty, terrorism, air 
traffic disruption and excess capacity that has driven down fares and profits. The company was forced in June to  
issue a profit warning in the wake of the UK’s referendum decision to leave the European Union. In October, it 
further trimmed pre-tax profit expectations, saying it anticipated a range of £490m to £495m.
EasyJet is the only significant airline to record its results in sterling and it has consequently faced far bigger 
problems as a result of the fall in the value of the pound following the referendum.
“EasyJet achieved a resilient performance in 2016, in the face of significant challenges including a series of external 
events and foreign exchange headwinds,” Dame Carolyn said.
Passengers during the year had benefitted from a third successive year of falling fares – revenue per seat declined 
6.4 per cent to £58.46 – Dame Carolyn said. However, the company’s staff had worked diligently to bring down 
costs – cost per seat declined 2 per cent to £52.26.
EasyJet profits fall but McCall praises ‘resilience’
“Looking ahead, the easyJet model remains strong as does the demand environment and we continue to see 
opportunities in the medium term to grow revenue, profit and shareholder returns,” Dame Carolyn said.
Dame Carolyn said that almost half of the airline’s growth next year would be in the UK, while there would also be 
“significant growth” in Switzerland, France and Italy. The approach contrasts with that of Ryanair, Europe’s biggest 
budget airline, which has reduced its planned growth in the UK and is concentrating on Germany in the wake of the 
Brexit vote.
Load-Date: November 15, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet risks the wrath of Stelios
EasyJet risks the wrath of Stelios
 
FT.com
November 15, 2016 Tuesday 12:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 797 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
EasyJet plans to grow fast at the airport serving Venice, city of dreams and lovers. Also at Luton, town of industrial 
estates and Lorraine Chase, where the low-cost airline is headquartered. How will this play with Sir Stelios Haji-
Ioannou, shareholder of frosty communiqués and no-confidence votes? Badly, one fears.
 EasyJet endured a stinker of a year. Terrorism closed some popular resorts in Muslim countries. Cheap fuel 
emboldened rivals to expand capacity. Weak sterling, in which easyJet reports, raised costs. Profits before tax 
crashed28 per cent to £495m.
Yet the group, helmed by shrewd ex-Guardian boss Dame Carolyn McCall, plans to raise gross capex from £650m 
next year to more than £1bn in both 2018 and 2019. She wants to increase the fleet of Airbuses from 257 to more 
than 300. She believes the business, in which founder Sir Stelios controls 34 per cent of shares, will need more 
seats as legacy European airlines atrophy.
EasyJethas net cash of £213m and would shade into net debt only in 2018, the peak year for investment. The 
dividend payout is set at 50 per cent of post-tax profits. 
Numis forecasts profits before tax of some £400m in 2017, equating to dividends 13.5p lower at 40.3p. The radars 
of stock market sky scanners are crowded with dangers. Perils include weakening UK confidence, political 
disruption to airline access agreements and further terrorism.
EasyJet risks the wrath of Stelios
Dame Carolyn is doing a good job in tough circumstances. Shares trading at only a modest discount to Ryanair, 
whose business model is stronger, suggest many investors recognise that. There is countercyclical sense in her 
growth plan. The question is whether Sir Stelios and another 17 per cent of shareholders can still stomach it 
following such bad results. The run-up to next February’s annual meeting may otherwise resemble an altercation 
outside a Luton pub rather than a gondola ride along the Grand Canal.
Hourican blows in
Some London bankers joke they will relocate to sunny Cyprus after Brexit to retain access to the single market. Ex-
comrade John Hourican is heading the other way, with plans to listBank of Cyprus on the London Stock Exchange. 
The move is part of a workout that has made the same process at Royal Bank of Scotland, Mr Hourican’s former 
employer, look like a nursery picnic.
Bank of Cyprus was left bombed out by the financial crisis. The deposits of savers were converted into equity and 
diluted by a €1bn capital raise. Chillingly, the Hourican family car was left bombed out too, following an arson 
attack. This may have been a riposte to criticism of lenient insolvency laws from the BoC chief executive, who once 
ran RBS’s investment bank.
The proportion of BoC’s loans that are non-performing is an eye-watering 58 per cent. Core tier one equity of 14.6 
per cent is creditably close to that of RBS. But City investors will take little interest in the renascent bank until it has 
swapped the standard listing currently in its sights for the premium listing that guarantees index inclusion.
Investment committees are therefore spared deliberations on the suitability of ex-Deutsche Bank boss Josef 
Ackermann as chairman or Trump backer Wilbur Ross as vice-chairman. Rumours Fred Goodwin is hiding out in a 
broom cupboard at BoC’s Nicosia HQ appear apocryphal.
The bank’s slow climb back from the abyss should remind bankers fantasising of a move to sunnier climes that 
such climes may not want them. Once-bitten Mediterranean nations may be twice shy of new regulatory and bailout 
risks. You could say the same of Ireland, which is where Mr Hourican aspires to site BoC’s new holding company. 
Small mercy
In 2009, Lombard’s Rover 75 was hospitalised at the Midland Impact Repair Centre following a trial of strength with 
a No 11 bus, leaving its owner beetling around Birmingham in a Tata Nano. The garagiste represented this as an 
equally pro-Brummie ride, having been built by Jaguar Land Rover’s Indian rescuer.
The 75 was a poor man’s Jag. The Nano was a ride-on lawnmower with a cab. None of the gestures made by 
drivers who overtook the Nano on the Bristol Road was a thumbs up.
Seven years on, the struggling Nano stands out as one of the odder fruits of proprietorial obsession. Some bosses 
blow millions on super cars. Ratan Tata, leader of India’s famous business dynasty, opted to back a runabout basic 
even by the standards of a guy upgrading from a bullock cart.
Much opprobrium now attaches to the patriarch in his spat with Cyrus Mistry, ousted chairman of Tata Sons. But it 
is curious how quiet critics fall when the issue of JLR is raised. At Tata Motors, where Mr Mistry remains chairman, 
a first-half profits fallof 12 per cent to $467m would have been far worse without increased earnings at JLR. Not all 
Mr Tata’s bets have come as unstuck as the Nano. 
Load-Date: November 16, 2016
End of Document
Brussels orders Ryanair to repay €2m in illegal subsidies
Brussels orders Ryanair to repay €2m in illegal subsidies
 
FT.com
November 11, 2016 Friday 11:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 201 words
Byline: Mehreen Khan
Body
The European Commission has ordered Ryanair and Tuifly to repay “illegal subsidies” the low-cost airlines received 
from an Austrian airport.
 Brussels  has demanded Ireland’s Ryanair repay €2m to the Austrian government while Germany’s Tuifly and HLX 
– which is part of the Tuifly brand – to repay a combined €10.7m for breaching the rules governing the single 
market.
The judgement comes after an investigation around marketing arrangements and airport services provided by 
Austria’s regional Klagenfurt airport which conferred an “undue advantage which cannot be justified under EU state 
aid rules”, said the commission.
“The agreements simply reduce the operating costs of the airlines, without contributing to common transport 
objectives” said the EU’s executive body on Friday.
However, the commission ruled that Austrian government funds provided to Klagenfurt between 2000 and 2011 did 
not breach its state aid rules.
Ryanair said it would be appealing the decision. “We disagree with the findings and have instructed our lawyers to 
appeal”, said a spokesman.
In 2014, the airline was ordered return nearly €10m in illegal subsidies to the French government. Ryanair stopped 
flying from Klagenfurt in 2013.
Brussels orders Ryanair to repay €2m in illegal subsidies
Load-Date: November 11, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair : web spinning
Ryanair: web spinning
 
FT.com
November 7, 2016 Monday 3:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 330 words
Body
Spiders were the original networkers. Their carefully-wrought weavings feed them from area traffic. So it goes with 
internet businesses, which ensnare both the casual browser and those hunting for a specific deal. Once, Ryanair 
might not have made the most of its online potential, but that time has past. Its website claims the highest traffic of 
any airline. Now this site is itself becoming a money-spinner.
Monday’s interim reportillustrated this. Ancillary revenues from its online ticket site — everything from reserved seat 
charges to hotel deals — have picked up to 22 per cent of sales. Growth here is so strong that the airline has 
revised its target to 30 per cent (from a fifth) by 2020. Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary wants to “disrupt”  
travel sites such as Priceline’s Booking.com and TripAdvisor via his own Ryanair Rooms. He asserts Ryanair can 
win business from overcharged suppliers, passing savings to flyers via cheaper seats. 
Whether these extra slugs of revenue will keep Ryanair’s margins strong is another matter. Operating margins, 
estimated at 23 per cent in the full year to March, are at a decade high. European capacity has expanded steadily, 
in no small part due to Ryanair’s new fleet nearly doubling its capacity by 2024. Partly as a result, per-passenger 
revenues have already dropped 8 per cent. Fares are expected to decline a tenth for the full year.
Mr O’Leary’s organisation, though, has enough bend in its fibre to withstand any future storms. Ryanair’s low unit 
costs have already compressed enough to accommodate the most recent deflation. Should operating profitability 
return to the average of the past decade, around 15 per cent, Ryanair’s taxed free cash flow would very likely 
remain positive. 
Ryanair’s latest prey are the intermediaries in the online travel industry. Mr O’Leary wants a sticky network, 
catching and holding its customers for the right reasons. This new business will help achieve his aim.
Ryanair : web spinning
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: November 8, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair raises passenger growth forecast as fares face pressures
Ryanair raises passenger growth forecast as fares face pressures
 
FT.com
November 7, 2016 Monday 8:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 522 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair, Europe’s biggest budget airline, increased its long-term growth forecast by more than 10 per cent as it said 
continued pressure on fares and declining costs would enable it to win more of Europe’s air travel market.
The company made the projection on Monday after announcing better than expected half-year results that Michael 
O’Leary, chief executive, described as “creditable” despite a European air travel market facing uncertainties, 
including the UK’s vote to leave the EU. Post-tax profits rose 7 per cent to €1.17bn on revenues up 2 per cent to 
€4.13bn.
The company raised its forecast for full-year passenger numbers to 119m — a 12 per cent increase on the year to 
March. That led it to forecast that it would carry 200m passengers annually by 2024, up from its previous forecast of 
180m.
Mr O’Leary said that the company’s significant order book — it is due to receive around 40 new aircraftannually 
over the next eight years — meant it was bound to continue growing.
“We don’t have discretion over the capacity,” Mr O’Leary said. “We have discretion over how we allocate the 
capacity.”
Ryanair would continue to drive down air fares through its strategy of cutting fares to ensure its aircraft fly as full as 
possible — an approach that Mr O’Leary calls “load factor active, yield passive”.
“The question for us is whether we can continue to drive down costs,” he said.
Ryanair raises passenger growth forecast as fares face pressures
Shares in Ryanair were up 5.4 per cent on Monday lunchtime in Dublin at €13.43.
The results follow a profit warning on October 18, when Ryanair trimmed its forecast for profits for the year to March 
2017 by around 5 per cent, to a range of €1.3bn-€1.35bn. The warning blamed the 18 per cent decline in sterling 
against the euro following June’s Brexit vote. Ryanair, which is based in Dublin, expects to generate around 26 per 
cent of this year’s revenue in sterling.
Although Ryanair said it was “comfortable” with the revised projections, Mr O’Leary said there were “risk factors” in 
the second half. “The things we worry about [are] more terrorist events, air traffic control strikes and there continues 
to be excess capacity growth [over growth in demand],” he said.
The company reiterated that, because of the uncertainty surrounding Brexit, it expected reduced economic growth 
in the UK and Europe more widely, and planned to shift some planned growth next year away from the UK towards 
mainland Europe.
Mr O’Leary, who campaigned for the UK to remain in the EU, said it was hard to forecast the long-term outcome of 
the Brexit process because ministers had no clear strategy. However, that meant that, for the time being, little had 
changed beyond the fall in sterling.
“It’s a shambles and long may it continue to be a shambles,” he said.
Average fares in the first half fell 10 per cent to €50, while passenger numbers grew 12 per cent to 65m. The 
average proportion of each flight’s seats filled grew 2 percentage points to 95 per cent.
The company also announced a €550m programme of share buybacks over the three months to February. Mr 
O’Leary said that, thanks to recent declines in the share price, buybacks made more sense than dividend 
payments.
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair boosts forecast as profits climb 7%
Ryanair boosts forecast as profits climb 7%
 
FT.com
November 7, 2016 Monday 7:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 594 words
Byline: Robert Wright
Body
Ryanair, Europe’s biggest budget airline, significantly increased its long-term forecast growth rate on Monday as it 
projected continued pressure on fares and declining costs would enable it to snatch still more of Europe’s air travel 
market.
The company made the projection after announcing results for the half-year to September 30 that Michael O’Leary, 
chief executive, described as “creditable” amid a European air travel market facing considerable uncertainties, 
including the economic disruption of the UK’s June Brexit vote. Post-tax profits rose 7 per cent to €1.17bn, on 
revenues up 2 per cent to €4.13bn.
Net income for the July to September quarter rose 8 per cent against the same period last year, to €912m, slightly 
ahead of analysts’ consensus forecast of €894m.
The company went on to increase its forecast for full-year passenger numbers to 119m, a 12 per cent increase on 
the number carried in the year to March.
That led it to project that it would carry 200m passengers annually by the year to March 2024, up from its previous 
forecast of 180m.
“Despite the uncertainty of Brexit, Ryanair believes that we can deliver profitable growth across Europe by 
controlling costs, lowering airfares, and maximising load factors in a manner that will most benefit our customers, 
our people and our shareholders,” Mr O’Leary said.
Ryanair boosts forecast as profits climb 7%
Monday’s results follow a profit warning on October 18, when Ryanair trimmed its forecast for profits for the year to 
March 2017 by around 5 per cent, to a range of €1.3bn to €1.35bn. The warning blamed the 18 per cent decline in 
Sterling against the Euro following June’s Brexit referendum. Ryanair, which is headquartered in Dublin, expects to 
generate around 26 per cent of this year’s revenue in Sterling.
The company said it remained “comfortable” with the revised projections but added that it remained “cautious” 
about the remainder of the financial year. That was especially so because Easter, which was in March last year, will 
fall after the end of the fourth quarter of its 2017 financial year.
“This guidance is heavily dependent upon there being no unexpected adverse declines in Q4 airfares,” Mr O’Leary 
said.
The company reiterated that, amid the economic uncertainty following the Brexit vote, it expected reduced 
economic growth in the UK and Europe more widely and planned to shift some planned growth next year away from 
the UK towards mainland Europe.
The UK is currently a member of the EU’s Open Skies aviation free market but it remains unclear whether it will 
remain so under any post-EU deal.
“We hope that the UK will remain a member of Europe’s Open Skies system, but until the final outcome of Brexit 
has been determined, we will continue to adapt to changing circumstances in the best interests of our customers, 
our people and our shareholders,” Mr O’Leary said.
Average fares in the first half fell 10 per cent to €50, while passenger numbers grew 12 per cent to 65m. Average 
load factors – the proportion of each flight’s seats operated full – grew 2 percentage points to 95 per cent.
The company’s growth continues to rely on its strategy of offering lower fares than rivals and cutting costs. The 
strategy has enabled it to survive this year’s mixture of economic uncertainty, terrorism fears and air traffic control 
disruption better than most rivals.
The company forecast on Monday that full-year unit costs would fall 3 per cent, against a previous projection of 1 
per cent, but it made no change to its forecast that average fares would decline by between 13 and 15 per cent for 
the half-year to March.
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
FT Opening Quote: Profits up at Ryanair
FT Opening Quote: Profits up at Ryanair
 
FT.com
November 7, 2016 Monday 8:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 889 words
Byline: Siona Jenkins
Body
Profits up at Ryanair, mixed results at HSBC, Hiscox premiums climb. FT Opening Quote, with commentary by City 
Editor Jonathan Guthrie, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can  sign up for the full newsletter here.
 Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary says the low-cost airline will “pivot away” from the UK in 2017 as a result 
of the Brexit vote. He warns growth here will be reduced from 12 per cent to 5 per cent, presumably in volume 
terms, reflecting weaker sterling and a sluggish economy. The company has authorised a €550m buyback.
Ryanair has reported a 7 per cent increase in post-tax profits to E1.17bn over the half-year. The fast-talking 
Irishman is upbeat, despite the challenge posed to low-cost carriers by the flagging pound. He says more primary 
airports are seeking to host Ryanair services as troubled flag carrier cut services. This should benefit passengers 
inured to looking up Ryanair destinations on Google Maps to see how many hours coach ride they are from the 
capital cities they notionally serve.
You can choose which  HSBC you prefer to believe in this morning. Adjusted profits are a healthy 7 per cent higher 
at $5.6bn, while reported earnings have slumped 86 per cent to $843m. The difference is largely down to a $1.7bn 
loss on the sale of a Brazilian business and movements in the value of the bank’s own debt.
Chief executive Stuart Gulliver has been streamlining the sprawling business. Disposals such as the Brazilian unit 
have helped raise core Tier One equity to 13.9 per cent of risk-weighted assets. Bernstein analyst Chirantan Barua 
reckons this will help support the dividend.
FT Opening Quote: Profits up at Ryanair
The wry Mr Gulliver is stepping down. There may be investor pressure on the bank, which prefers to promote 
internal candidates, to hire an external replacement able to bring fresh thinking to the job.
 Smiths Group has completed the sale of its Wallace unit to CooperSurgical Inc for £140m. The business makes 
medical equipment including kit for in vitro fertilisation. Engineer Smiths is occasionally tipped to make much larger 
disposals, but is thought unlikely to do so under current CEO Andy Reynolds Smith.
UK insurer  Hiscox has reported a healthy climb in its third-quarter insurance premiums despite warning margins 
are “evaporating” in its London Market business.
When measured in local currency terms, gross premiums grew to £1.86bn in the first nine months of the calendar 
year compared to the same period last year. In gross currency terms, Hiscox said premiums rose 21 per cent, 
boosted by foreign exchange moves. The insurer generates three-quarters of its premiums in currencies other than 
the pound — mostly euros and US dollars.
Corporate news this week will be overshadowed by the  US presidential election, which one cynic characterises as 
“a choice between the class swot and the playground bully”. A victory for Trump seems marginally less likely in the 
wake of the FBI’s latest statement on Mrs Clinton’s haphazard e-mail habits. But if the blonde bombshell wins, we 
may see UK stocks with hefty dollar earnings to lose some of their gains.
Have a pleasant and productive day.
Beyond the Square Mile
Asian markets bounced on a perception in the market that Hillary Clinton’s chances of being  elected president 
had firmed after the FBI said on Sunday it would take             no action against Mrs Clinton following its 
investigation of new emails related to a probe into her use of a private server.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng was 0.6 per cent stronger. In Japan, the broad Topix benchmark gained 1.1 per cent and 
the Nikkei 225 was up 1.5 per cent.
The dollar index, a measure of the global currency against a basket of global peers, was up 0.5 per cent in Asia at 
a session high of 97.558.
The British pound, which had rallied for six consecutive sessions to Friday, was down 0.6 per cent at $1.2438 in 
Asian trade.
Gold was down 1.1 per cent in Asia at $1,290.71 an ounce. Shares in Saracen Minerals, Evolution Mining and  St 
Barbara were all down more than 5 per cent in Sydney.
Oil prices rebounded after declining last week. Brent crude, the international benchmark, was up 1.2 per cent at 
$46.12 a barrel, while West Texas Intermediate gained 1.4 per cent to $44.67.
Intraday
Here is today’s economic calendar (London times):
08.00: Swiss FX reserves
08.00: Spain industrial production
08.15: Swiss CPI
08.30: UK house prices (from Halifax)
10.00: Eurozone retail sales
The markets at 07:59
Asian markets
FT Opening Quote: Profits up at Ryanair
Nikkei 225 up +271.85 (+1.61%) at 17,177
Topix up +15.76 (+1.17%) at 1,363
Hang Seng up +188.35 (+0.83%) at 22,831
US markets
S&P 500 down -3.48 (-0.17%) at 2,085
DJIA down -42.39 (-0.24%) at 17,888
Nasdaq down -12.04 (-0.24%) at 5,046
European markets
Eurofirst 300 down -10.31 (-0.79%) at 1,296
FTSE100 down -97.25 (-1.43%) at 6,693
CAC 40 unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 4,377
Dax unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 10,259
Currencies
€/$ 1.11 (1.11)
$/¥ 104.38 (103.08)
£/$ 1.24 (1.25)
€/£ 0.8903 (0.8897)
Commodities ($)
Brent Crude (ICE) up +0.57 at 46.15
Light Crude (Nymex) up +0.55 at 44.62
100 Oz Gold (Comex) down -13.30 at 1,290
Copper (Comex) unchanged 0.00 at 2.26
10-year government bond yields (%)
US 1.83%
Germany 0.17%
CDS (closing levels)
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe +0.12bps at 19.68bp
Markit iTraxx Europe +1.1bps at 76.14bp
Markit iTraxx Xover +3.67bps at 338.83bp
Markit CDX IG +0.35bps at 80.99bp
Sources: FT, Bloomberg, Markit
 
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
IAG shares fall as British Airways ’ parent cuts profit target
IAG shares fall as British Airways’ parent cuts profit target
 
FT.com
November 4, 2016 Friday 12:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 456 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Shares in International Airlines Group fell 4 per cent on Friday after the owner of British Airways cut its long-term 
core profit target, in the latest sign of the challenges facing Europe’s airlines.
At its annual investor day, IAG also cut its targets for planned capital spending and growth in capacity.
IAG, which owns Spain’s Iberia, Ireland’s Aer Lingus and Vueling, a Spanish budget airline, as well as BA, has 
been grappling like other European carriers with difficult market conditions created by excess capacity and a series 
of external shocks.
Airlines this summer have faced economic uncertainty following the UK’s vote to leave the EU, as well as the 
negative impact stemming from terrorist attacks in mainland Europe and strikes by air traffic controllers.
Last month IAG blamed a “tough operating environment”, including the fall in the value of sterling since the Brexit 
referendum, for a near 4 per cent drop in operating profit in its third quarter.
However, IAG is regarded by some analysts as being in a stronger position than rival groups Lufthansa and Air 
France-KLM because it has made deeper cost cuts to try to compete with budget airlines led by Ryanair and 
easyJet.
IAG said on Friday it was cutting its target for average annual earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and rent for the period from 2016 to 2020 from €5.6bn to €5.3bn.
IAG shares fall as British Airways ’ parent cuts profit target
It also reduced its target for annual capital expenditure to €1.7bn, from €2.5bn previously. Capacity would grow at 
an annual rate of 3 per cent, down from a former range of 3 to 4 per cent.
IAG’s shares fell almost 4.5 per cent to 430.7p in London trading.
Robin Byde, analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said IAG’s target trimming might indicate that the cycle for European 
airlines had turned.
“IAG is an increasingly complex airlines group,” he added. “Diversity can be positive but evaluating the earnings 
drivers for the group as a whole is more difficult.”
Mark Simpson, analyst at Goodbody, said IAG’s reduced capital spending should bolster its free cash flow and 
therefore provide scope share buybacks.
Alex Cruz, BA chief executive, outlined plans to make the best possible use of the UK flag carrier’s powerful 
position at London’s Heathrow airport, one of the world’s most attractive hubs.
He confirmed that BA intended in the summer to introduce more flights to European tourist destinations from the 
airport, to counteract a downturn in demand for business travel.
From London‘s Gatwick airport, BA plans to introduce Boeing 777 passenger jets on long-haul routes.
Mr Cruz portrayed the move as enabling BA to compete more effectively with Norwegian Air Shuttle, the airline 
operating long-haul routes from Gatwick with modern, cost-efficient Boeing 787 Dreamliners.
Load-Date: November 6, 2016
End of Document
Air France plans low-cost flying unit for long-haul routes
Air France plans low-cost flying unit for long-haul routes
 
FT.com
November 3, 2016 Thursday 9:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1016 words
Byline: Michael Stothard in Paris
Body
The new chief executive of Air France-KLM on Thursday unveiled plans to create a low-cost, long-haul flying unit 
within Air France, in a move that threatens to reignite tensions with the struggling Franco-Dutch airline group’s 
powerful trade unions.
Jean-Marc Janaillac told the Financial Times that the group must adopt an “offensive mindset” to improve its 
competitiveness or it would “end up like Alitalia”, the Italian flag carrier that ran up losses for years and now has 
Abu Dhabi’s Etihad Airways as its largest shareholder.
Mr Janaillac, who became group chief executive in July, signalled that he was willing to confront the unions at Air 
France which have in the past made efficiency reforms difficult. “It will be a tough negotiation, but they have to 
understand that the status quo is no longer possible,” he said.
The most contentious cost-cutting measure in his new group strategy is the creation of a company inside Air France 
that will operate 10 per cent of long-haul routes, and whose pilots and cabin crew are expected to have less 
generous contracts compared to those at the French flag-carrier’s main business.
This would be a way to improve Air France’s efficiency, which lags behind European budget airlines led by easyJet 
and Ryanair but also fast-expanding Gulf carriers including Emirates Airline.
Air France-KLM’s shares rose more than 6 per cent on Thursday, to €5.77, but several unions with members at the 
airline expressed hostility to the cost-cutting plans.
Air France plans low-cost flying unit for long-haul routes
Mr Janaillac is widely considered to have one of the toughest jobs in aviation. Attempts by the previous Air France-
KLM chief executive Alexandre de Juniac to expand the group’s budget airline Transavia on short-haul routes 
prompted the longest strike in Air France’s history in 2014 — because unions regarded his plans as a strategy to 
lower wages.
Since then, industrial relations at Air France have been poor, and Mr de Juniac was unable to fully implement his 
cost-cutting measures. A new low was reached last year when, after a tense employee meeting about 2,900 job 
cuts, the airline’s human resources director had his shirt torn off by an angry mob.
Mr Janaillac confirmed that he would persist with Transavia, and focus its operations on France and the 
Netherlands, “in order to fight against low-cost competition and the [high-speed] trains”.
He said he hoped that, as a “new face”, his talks with the unions would be better than those of his predecessor. He 
is replacing the head of Air France, Frédéric Gagey, with Franck Terner, who was boss of the group’s engineering 
and maintenance unit.
Mr Janaillac said he intended to explain to the unions that in order to increase capacity by 2 to 3 per cent each year 
until 2020, Air France must generate cash to “renew the fleet and buy new planes”, and that in turn meant the 
airline has to “cut costs and become more competitive”.
“My bet is that the [Air France] staff are ready to make a deal this time to secure the long-term future of the 
company and start growing again,” he said. “It is a bet, though.”
Air France’s longstanding problems focus on its high operating costs compared to certain competitors on short- and 
long-haul routes, and its large debt load.
But, like other European airlines, Air France has been contending in recent months with economic and political 
uncertainty stemming from the UK’s vote in June to leave the EU, the negative impact of terrorist attacks in 
mainland Europe including France, and strikes by air traffic controllers.
On Thursday, Air France-KLM reported that its operating profit had dropped 16 per cent to €737m in the July to 
September period compared to a year earlier, while revenue fell 5.1 per cent to €6.9bn. The group recorded net 
debt of €4.2bn at September 30.
Mr Janaillac said he was positively surprised by the strength of Air France’s brand, service, and its alliances with 
other airlines. 
He was, however, disappointed to discover the “lack of trust” within the group, both between Air France and KLM, 
and between management and staff. He also saw that the group’s “financial situation”, “competitiveness” and 
“organisation structure” were not good enough. 
Mr Janaillac’s plans to set up a low-cost, long-haul flying unit within Air France have some similarities with an 
initiative by Lufthansa.
Eurowings, Lufthansa’s budget airline focused on short-haul routes, last year began flying to long distance 
destinations including the Caribbean.
A more radical cost-cutting approach was taken by International Airlines Group at its subsidiary Iberia in 2012, 
when the Spanish flag-carrier was running up losses.
IAG set out plans to cut Iberia’s workforce by 20 per cent, and capacity by 15 per cent, and it subsequently returned 
to profit.
British Airways, IAG’s main subsidiary, also cut costs in 2011 at its long-haul operations by reducing the number of 
cabin crew on certain flights and paying new recruits less than existing employees.
Air France plans low-cost flying unit for long-haul routes
All the long-established European airlines have come under pressure from a newer breed of long-haul carriers. 
These have been led by the Gulf airlines, but also carriers such as Malaysia’s AirAsia X, which are seeking to 
replicate the low-cost, short-haul business model on long-haul routes.
Some analysts questioned whether Mr Janaillac’s cost-cutting plans went far enough.
Damian Brewer, analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said the plans did not look sufficient to enable Air France-KLM to 
escape its “high debt balance sheet, high unit cost base”.
He added that the proposal for the low-cost, long-haul flying unit within Air France “risks being seen by the union as 
a stalking horse for deeper changes later (ie to cease growing the legacy Air France and grow the new unit over 
time)”.
The SNPL pilots union said it was willing to start negotiations with Mr Janaillac on a positive footing.
But Emmanuel Mistrali, union president, said it would not countenance having different contracts for staff in Air 
France’s low-cost, long-haul flying unit.
Flore Arrighi, head of the UNAC cabin crew union, was even more combative, saying his members were the “big 
losers in this project”.
Load-Date: November 23, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet shares climb on boost from HSBC upgrade
EasyJet shares climb on boost from HSBC upgrade
 
FT.com
November 2, 2016 Wednesday 6:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 450 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
An upgrade from HSBC helped buoy EasyJet, the FTSE 100’s second-worst performing stock of 2016.
HSBC switched EasyJet from “reduce” to “buy” with a £11.50 target price. While Ryanair and EasyJet “remain the 
long-term strategic winners in the market with solid strategic positions and strong balance sheets”,  recent weak 
trading means EasyJet shares sit at a 35 per cent discount to Ryanair based on mid-cycle earnings multiples, it told 
clients.
“If management does not fix this struggling business, we think someone else will,” the broker added. “Its pan-
European network, portfolio of slots in constrained airports and well recognised brand position should make it an 
attractive opportunity for carriers looking to consolidate what is currently an unstable business.”
EasyJet closed 2.9 per cent higher at 968p, which narrowed its loss for the year-to-date to 44 per cent.
A sterling rally and a sharp drop for oil meant the wider market struggled with the FTSE 100 sliding 1 per cent, 
down 71.72 points at 6,845.42. 
Standard Chartered slipped a further 4.3 per cent to 644.1p as forecast downgrades followed Tuesday’s quarterly 
results, which damped down hopes of a return to revenue growth and a restart of dividends. 
Berenberg forecast StanChart’s return on equity to remain below 5 per cent compared with the 2018 target of 8 per 
cent when management first set out its turnround plan.
EasyJet shares climb on boost from HSBC upgrade
Barclays faded 2.5 per cent to 182.1p on word of a cautious briefing from Tushar Morzaria, its finance director, to 
Deutsche Bank analysts. 
Among the issues discussed was the rising cost to service Barclays’ coco bonds, about three-quarters of which are 
non-sterling denominated and are unhedged against sterling’s recent devaluation. 
Heroin substitute maker Indivior jumped 10.6 per cent to 350.4p after boosting full-year earnings guidance with 
better than expected quarterly results. 
Lower research costs combined with resilient demand for Suboxone film against generic and branded competitors, 
which eclipsed news of an $220m exceptional provision for litigation costs.
Security outsourcer G4S rose 10.3 per cent to 242.8p on the back of an unscheduled trading update, which showed 
organic growth accelerating from the half-year stage thanks partly to a pick-up in the US. 
Aggreko hit a seven-year low, down 2 per cent to 765.5p. The generator hire specialist has begun contract renewal 
talks in Argentina, where analysts expect 35 per cent price cuts, and faces increased competition in emerging 
markets from Karpowership, a Turkish ship maker that is rapidly expanding its fleet of floating power stations.
Potash mine developer Sirius Minerals dropped 10.1 per cent to 33.3p after setting out a $900m fundraising.
Load-Date: November 3, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair founder says Latin America is ‘focus for next 20 years’
Ryanair founder says Latin America is ‘focus for next 20 years’
 
FT.com
November 1, 2016 Tuesday 5:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 550 words
Byline: Jude Webber
Body
Declan Ryan, co-founder of successful Irish low-cost airline Ryanair, has reached a deal to sell his company 
Irelandia Aviation’s 49 per cent stake in budget Mexican carrier VivaAerobus to majority stakeholder IAMSA, in 
order to focus on expansion in central and South America.Speaking by telephone from Panama, where he was 
assessing the market, Mr Ryan said the deal for IAMSA to take full control of the Mexican carrier was awaiting 
regulatory approval. He declined to discuss financial details. But a newspaper report in recent weeks suggested 
Irelandia would sell the stake for some $250m, five times its initial investment, writes Jude Webber in Mexico 
City.
VivaAerobus declined immediate comment.
“We’ve been in Mexico 10 years, we adore the country,” said Mr Ryan, who is managing partner of Irelandia. “But 
we think the new frontier is the whole of central and South America, and that’s what we’re concentrating on … to be 
frank, the Viva brand could be throughout South America.”
Irelandia – which styles itself the world’s premier low-cost carrier developer and has a ticking count on its website of 
more than 1bn passengers carried since its inception – owns other brands including Allegiant in the US and Tiger 
Airways in Asia. Earlier this year, Irelandia took majority control of VivaColombia, and Mr Ryan singled out 
Colombia as a source of strong growth.
“Our focus for the next 20 years is the region down here,” Mr Ryan said. “I think the market’s growing. We can do 
double digit growth in passenger volume, and then some.”
Ryanair founder says Latin America is ‘focus for next 20 years’
He declined to spell out Irelandia’s total expected investment, but said setting up a low-cost airline typically cost 
$50m, and “in time, we could see five” Viva airlines in the region. The VivaAir holding company could list in the US 
in two to three years, he added.
Latin America – with its growing middle class, vast distances and high-cost legacy carriers – is ripe for competition 
in the airline business. Mr Ryan said he had “no doubt the Viva brand can go to 100 airports. It won’t be as big as 
Ryanair because the access to disposable income is not the same, but it’s still sizable”.
He added: “One rule of thumb is that if you can afford a handset, you can afford a low-cost airfare.”
Since VivaColombia’s inception in 2012, the Colombian market had grown by 40 per cent. The airline broke even in 
the first year and was making money in the second year, a full year ahead of what is normal in the industry, Mr 
Ryan said. “As we saw in Europe and the US, if the fares are at the right level, people will take the flights.”
While Colombia will be a hub, another key focus will be Argentina, which Mr Ryan described as “on the radar”. But 
he did not see a Brazil-based airline because it was too costly to set up there and Brazil was “not hugely 
welcoming” for foreign airlines. “We would love to go to Venezuela in time, when things settle down,” he added. He 
also saw opportunities in Costa Rica and Panama.
Mexico has reached a new open skies agreement with the US, which is expected to multiply routes and 
competition. Mr Ryan said that 10 years ago, when VivaAerobus started, there were 16 airlines in Mexico and now 
there were only four, but that fares had dropped sharply. Volaris, another low-cost carrier, successfully floated on 
the stock market in 2013.
Load-Date: November 1, 2016
End of Document
Britain ’s sorry history of big infrastructure policies
Britain’s sorry history of big infrastructure policies
 
FT.com
October 28, 2016 Friday 3:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1011 words
Byline: John Kay
Body
The government has decided, again, to increase London’s airport capacity by building a third runway at  Heathrow. 
If all goes well — and there is absolutely nothing in the vexed history of this issue to suggest that it will — then the 
new facilities might be operational in 2030.
That history begins in 1968, when the Roskill Commission was appointed to assess London’s airport capacity 
needs. The commission’s conclusion in 1971 was that a new airport should be built at Cublington in 
Buckinghamshire, about 40 miles north-west of London.
The commission was distinguished, its report was thoughtful, and its conclusion was almost certainly right. There 
are no good sites for an airport in the crowded south-east of England, but neither of the two principal contenders for 
expansion are places where anyone would choose to build an airport now: Heathrow is too close to London and 
Gatwick is inconvenient for many potential passengers. Cublington was the right distance from the centre to 
minimise noise nuisance, and in the right direction for users’ convenience.
But by the time the Roskill Commission reported, the Conservatives had replaced Labour in government, and well 
organised opposition from the shires had drained political support from the Cublington option. For several years, 
politicians played with the fantasy that an airport might be built at Foulness in the Thames estuary. But this proposal 
never made economic sense. The Treasury was determined to kill it, and in 1975, when the political complexion of 
the government had changed yet again, the Treasury got its way.
Britain ’s sorry history of big infrastructure policies
Despite the projections of a slowdown, which had provided rationalisation for the decision to abandon Foulness, air 
traffic continued to grow rapidly. Stansted, built north-east of London during the second world war as a base from 
which to bomb Germany, was greatly expanded for commercial operations. 
For civil aviation, however, closeness to London is more important than closeness to the Ruhr. Stansted became a 
white elephant, eventually finding a role as a base for low-cost airlines: Ryanair is much the largest operator there 
today.
The dreary catalogue of procrastination continued. In 2003 a new airport strategy favoured a third runway at 
Heathrow, to open between 2015 and 2020; in 2009 the Labour government finally and belatedly threw its weight 
behind this proposal. But the wheel of political fortune turned and the plan was scrapped after the 2010 election. 
Another fantasy — that high-speed railcould substitute for airport capacity — was pursued for a while. But as planes 
continued to circle congested Heathrow, another commission was appointed, 44 years after Roskill, to review the 
options. 
This  new report favoured a third runway at Heathrow and after one year’s further delay, Theresa May’s government 
last week announced its support for this option. But this decision will not be the end of the story, only the beginning 
of a new chapter.
Why are British governments so bad at making these decisions? Politics is central to the answer. Yet many of these 
policy failures occur over issues that are not in any obvious sense political. There is no ideological division over 
high-speed rail, or Hinkley Point, or many of the catalogue of horrors compiled in The Blunders of Our 
Governments, by the political scientists Anthony King and Ivor Crewe. 
But our adversarial system encourages governments of any complexion to review the policies of any previous 
government of any different complexion, and the dire consequences of these reversals are particularly obvious in 
the case of London airport expansion.
That tendency to knee-jerk opposition is reinforced by a paradox of democracy — the tyranny of the minority. No 
one, except the people employed there, wants an airport, nuclear power station or railway built next to their home; 
while it is to the general benefit that these facilities are provided. But the clamour of the few who fear they may lose 
a lot drowns the quiet voices of the many who stand to gain a little. 
It is also increasingly easy for opponents to use judicial as well as political methods to obstruct and delay. In the 
case of airport expansion, the ability of a small group to veto any specific proposal may simply represent an 
intractable obstacle to any rational policy.
And that quest for rational policy has been blighted by bogus quantification. Roskill made a pioneering and widely 
praised attempt to use cost benefit analysis to define the relevant issues. By the time the Airports Commission 
reported in 2015, this modelling exercise had morphed into a monster, a black box with trailing wires whose 
processes no one could understand, and which offered endless numbers but no insight. 
Such over-specified and convoluted models are used as rationalisations for decisions that have in reality been 
taken on quite different grounds. 
The power of modern computing, far from facilitating good decision making, gets in the way. Consultants are 
dispatched to find supportive numbers. This happened with  HS2, the proposed high-speed link to Birmingham, and 
for years a policy in search of a justification. Competing cost benefit analyses yield the recommendations their 
sponsors want to hear. We have policy based evidence, not evidence based policy.
These spurious impact assessments provide cover for the increasingly superficial basis on which policy is really 
made. Foulness sounded environmentally friendly, even if it was not much use as an airport. Expanding Heathrow 
is a gesture that allows the new government to claim that, despite Brexit, Britain is “open for business”. HS2 is a 
Britain ’s sorry history of big infrastructure policies
transport project for the 21st century, a fast link to the Northern Powerhouse. The good policy is one that makes a 
good headline.
We suffer from what King and Crewe describe as a “deficit of deliberation”. And the rise of populism that has had 
“enough of experts” does not suggest matters will get better any time soon.
The  writer is an FT contributing editor
Letter in response to this article
Myopia that makes consensus impossible / From Malcolm Levitt
Load-Date: November 5, 2016
End of Document
Sterling weakness erodes profit at International Airlines Group
Sterling weakness erodes profit at International Airlines Group
 
FT.com
October 28, 2016 Friday 8:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 504 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
International Airlines Group, the parent of British Airways, blamed a “tough operating environment” including sterling 
weakness for a near 4 per cent drop in operating profit in its third quarter.
But the company’s shares closed up 5.9 per cent at 438p on Friday, as the results were in line with market 
expectations and IAG’s trimming of its full-year profit target proved less dramatic than anticipated.
Willie Walsh, IAG chief executive, said the weak pound could prompt BA to increase ticket prices.
“In the end, if sterling continues to be weak like this, you are looking at price increases,” he added.
 IAG, whose results were boosted by the acquisition of Ireland’s Aer Lingus in August last year, said it expected to 
generate €2.5bn of operating profit before exceptional items in 2016, up 7 per cent on the 2015 figure. The 
company said three months ago it expected earnings to rise at a double-digit percentage rate.
IAG’s operating profit for the July to September quarter fell 3.6 per cent to €1.2bn.
Several European airlines, including IAG, easyJet, Lufthansa and Ryanair have issued profit warnings since the 
summer, as they grapple with economic and political uncertainty after the Brexit vote, the impact of terror attacks in 
Europe and air traffic control strikes. 
IAG said on Friday it had seen “no significant change in its short-term trading conditions”.
Sterling weakness erodes profit at International Airlines Group
The company has been especially hit by the fall in the value of the pound since the Brexit vote because, while IAG 
reports in euros, BA generates most of its revenue in sterling.
Mr Walsh said IAG’s results were strong but had been affected by a “tough operating environment” and that air 
traffic control strikes had caused “continued disruption”.
“You can see that the weakness of the pound has had a significant effect on our reported results,” he told reporters.
This effect involved a combination of currency translation from sterling into euros, and “transaction impact”: the 
weaker pound and its negative impact on UK consumers’ willingness to travel.
In the third quarter, IAG’s net profit rose 9.9 per cent to €930m as the company benefited from lower taxes 
compared with the same period last year.
Sterling weakness helped to send IAG’s passenger revenue per available seat kilometre, a key industry 
performance metric, down 13.7 per cent to 6.96 cents in the third quarter.
But passenger load factors — the average proportion of full seats on each flight — dipped by only 0.1 percentage 
point, to 85.6 per cent.
IAG increased capacity by 11.3 per cent in the first nine months of the year compared with the same period in 2015.
That figure would have been only 4.1 per cent without Aer Lingus. IAG’s other subsidiaries are Spain’s Iberia and 
Vueling, a low-cost carrier.
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, noted the negative impact of sterling weakness on IAG’s results, adding: “FX is 
becoming a material headwind, mainly on the translation of sterling profits at British Airways, and recent exchange 
rate moves suggest this challenge will continue to grow.”
Load-Date: October 29, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet shares climb higher after UBS turns positive
EasyJet shares climb higher after UBS turns positive
 
FT.com
October 24, 2016 Monday 5:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 451 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
EasyJet, this year’s second-biggest FTSE 100 faller, rallied on Monday after UBS forecast an end to earnings 
downgrades.
UBS turned positive on EasyJet, which climbed 1.4 per cent to 931.5p. A 47 per cent slump in 2016 means the 
stock is “pricing in material future value destruction” far in excess of that assumed for Ryanair, which has risen to a 
record premium relative to EasyJet based on 2017 earnings, said UBS.
Yet EasyJet has plenty of flexibility left to cushion earnings by cutting costs, said UBS. And with expectations 
having already fallen more than 40 per cent from the recent peak, earnings risk is now “at least neutral”, it said.
A mixed wider  market pulled the FTSE 100 lower by 0.5 per cent, or 34.07 points, at 6,986.40.
A third profit warning in a year sent Cobham slumping 13 per cent to 139.7p with analysts expecting a dividend cut 
to follow once the defence contractor’s new chief executive takes charge.
Cobham’s warning of “subdued” demand for marine satellite communications systems also weighed on Inmarsat, 
down 1.8 per cent to 682.5p. The satellite operator relies on shipping companies for around half its revenues. 
“The challenging conditions Cobham reference in maritime look consistent with what we know already,” said 
Jefferies. “We don’t see the language today as particularly incremental.”
EasyJet shares climb higher after UBS turns positive
Capital equipment stocks drifted after Caterpillar reported weaker sales for September, its 46th consecutive monthly 
decline. Ashtead was 1.1 per cent weaker at £13.10 and Aggreko lost 0.6 per cent to 815.5p.
DCC, the oil distributor and logistics group, rose 1.9 per cent to £67.05 with Berenberg arguing that recent 
weakness was unwarranted. Half-year results in November should be slightly ahead of expectations, Berenberg 
added.
Unilever edged 0.4 per cent lower at £34.72 and Reckitt Benckiser was 0.1 per cent weaker at £72.25 after 
Kimberly-Clark, the US-based maker of Kleenex tissues and Andrex nappies, cut 2016 earnings guidance. 
It blamed “lower expected benefits from selling price increases, primarily due to the improved currency outlook”.
STV gained 6.8 per cent to 427p after Crystal Amber, the activist investor, confirmed it had raised its stake to 10 per 
cent and repeated its long-held view that the Scottish ITV broadcaster should be a takeover target. 
Crystal Amber has been lobbying for STV’s sale since it first disclosed an interest in 2013, when the shares were 
306p, and was reported over the weekend to be  willing to buy up to 20 per cent.
French Connection jumped 14.5 per cent to 37.5p on a report of possible bid interest. Stephen Marks, the fashion 
retailer’s founder and 42 per cent shareholder,  told Reuters: “There’s no comment as there’s no story.”
Load-Date: October 25, 2016
End of Document
Lufthansa shares jump as airline raises profit target
Lufthansa shares jump as airline raises profit target
 
FT.com
October 20, 2016 Thursday 10:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 482 words
Byline: Patrick McGee in Frankfurt
Body
Lufthansa’s shares jumped 7 per cent on Thursday after the German airline group unexpectedly raised its full-year 
profit target, and provided some relief for the embattled European aviation sector.
Lufthansa late on Wednesday reported adjusted earnings before interest and taxes of €1.68bn for the nine months 
to September 30, ahead of a consensus analyst forecast of €1.53m.
The Cologne-based group had issued a profit warning in July, citing economic and political uncertainty following the 
UK referendum vote in June to leave the EU and several terror attacks in continental Europe. Other European 
airline groups have also issued profit warnings blamed on similar factors, including International Airlines Group, 
easyJet and Ryanair.
But  Lufthansa said on Wednesday that the “difficult-to-forecast short-term bookings of business travellers in 
September have developed better than expected”. 
In addition, measures to address excess fleet capacity and costs were starting to pay off. In early afternoon trading 
in Frankfurt, Lufthansa’s shares were up 7.2 per cent at €11.21.
For the full year, Lufthansa said it now expected adjusted earnings before interest and taxes to be roughly in line 
with 2015, compared with a previous estimate of “below” the 2015 result of €1.817bn. Analysts at Citi said this was 
“significantly better” than a consensus forecast of €1.461bn.
Lufthansa shares jump as airline raises profit target
In spite of the improved outlook, Lufthansa is braced for a 7 to 8 per cent fall in revenues at constant currency in the 
fourth quarter.
It cautioned that long-term bookings, especially on long-haul routes to Europe, were still burdened by political and 
economic uncertainties.
“Forecasting short-term bookings therefore remains challenging and may lead to significant volatility in earnings 
going forward,” said Lufthansa.
Analysts were encouraged by Lufthansa figures that suggested expenses were being reduced.
Unit costs excluding fuel and currency effects fell 2.1 per cent in the first nine months of this year compared with the 
same period in 2015, while net debt dropped from €3.3bn at December 31 to €2.2bn at September 30.
UBS analysts said the most noteworthy figure was the Lufthansa passenger airline unit recording adjusted earnings 
before interest and taxes of €1.41bn in the first nine months of this year, up from €1.35bn in the same period last 
year. Lower fuel prices played a role.
In spite of the share price rise on Thursday, Lufthansa’s stock is down by more than a fifth this year.
Investors have fretted over the group’s battles with trade unions over pay and conditions, including pensions, and 
this has resulted in damaging strikes by pilots.
Chief financial officer Simone Menne also abruptly departed in June, adding to the uncertainties. The group has 
named a successor, Ulrik Svensson, who begins in January. 
Detailed results for first nine months of this year will be released by Lufthansa on November 2.
Load-Date: October 21, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair cuts profit forecast on weaker pound
Ryanair cuts profit forecast on weaker pound
 
FT.com
October 18, 2016 Tuesday 7:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 547 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has become the latest big European airline to warn that this year’s tough trading conditions will hit earnings 
as it cut its profit forecast for 2016-17 by more than 5 per cent, blaming the impact of the weak pound.
The Irish budget airline, which last issued a profit warning in 2013, had stood out in recent months among large 
European carriers for sticking to its earnings guidance. 
But on Tuesday Ryanair said the 18 per cent decline in sterlingagainst the euro since the UK referendum on EU 
membership in June would cut its expected full-year net profit to a range of between €1.3bn and €1.35bn. Europe’s 
largest low-cost airline by revenue had previously targeted a range of between €1.375bn and €1.425bn.
The company also warned that its strategy of cutting fares to fill its aircraft might reduce net profit for 2016-17 
further if passenger demand weakened or the pound continued to fall.
There have been months of speculation about whether Ryanair’s profit forecast was achievable amid a European 
aviation market hit by fears over the impact of terrorism attacks, sluggish economic growth and a rash of air traffic 
control strikes.
However, Ryanair’s profit warning was less drastic than anticipated and, after an initial drop, the company’s shares 
were up 2.5 per cent at €12.11 on Tuesday afternoon.
The company said average fares in the six months to September 30 had declined 10 per cent, against the 
previously guided 9 per cent, and that it expected a far sharper-than-anticipated fall for the six months to March 31. 
Ryanair cuts profit forecast on weaker pound
Average fares for the period would fall by between 13 and 15 per cent, against the previously guided 10 to 12 per 
cent.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, told analysts the outlook meant the company was expecting only “slightly lower 
growth” in profit than before.
“We think this small reduction in the full-year guidance is justified and warranted, given the precipitous decline or 
weakness in sterling over the last number of weeks, particularly when some 26 per cent of our revenues are 
accounted for in sterling,” he added.
The new profit forecast was “heavily dependent” on there being no further decline in sterling against the euro or 
additional weakness in fares for the second half of the financial year, he said.
Ryanair said the drop in fares should produce average load factors — the proportion of seats full on each flight — 1 
percentage point higher than previously expected at 94 per cent. It expects to carry 119m passengers in 2016-17, 
up 12 per cent compared to 2015-16.
“We’re using lower prices to stimulate stronger demand than we would’ve seen this time last year in terms of 
volumes and we expect that to continue to be the case,” said Mr O’Leary.
Ryanair’s profit warning follows a number of similar statements by other big European airlines in June and July.
International Airlines Group, easyJet and Lufthansa have all issued warnings, while Germany’s Air Berlin has been 
forced into a wholesale restructuring.
Ryanair was a vocal campaigner for Britain to remain in the EU, promising its biggest ever sale if voters backed 
Remain.
The company warned in the aftermath of the referendum that it would “pivot” its growth away from UK airports and 
focus on expanding more at other bases in the EU.
Additional reporting by Katie Martin
Load-Date: October 19, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair blames sterling slump as it pulls down profit guidance
Ryanair blames sterling slump as it pulls down profit guidance
 
FT.com
October 18, 2016 Tuesday 6:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 301 words
Byline: Katie Martin
Body
A spot of turbulence, and a reminder that the drop in sterling is not always good news for UK-listed companies.
Budget airline Ryanair has almost halved its expected rate of profit growth in its first warning on profits since the 
autumn of 2013. It has yanked down its guidance on growth to 7 per cent from 12 per cent for the full year and 
citing the drop in sterling as a drag on average fares, which it now expects to fall by as much as 15 per cent in the 
second half, from a previously expected maximum of 12 per cent.
In a statement on Tuesday, Ryanair said it expects to make €1.3bn to €1.35bn over the year, from a previous range 
of €1.375bn to €1.425bn. It suggested this could get worse if sterling falls any further.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary said:
The recent sharp decline in sterling post Brexit (which accounts for approx. 26% of Ryanair’s FY17 revenues) 
will weaken H2 yields by slightly more than we had originally expected. While higher load factors, stronger 
traffic growth and better cost control will help to ameliorate these weaker revenues, it is prudent now to adjust 
full year guidance which will rise by approx. 7% (over FY 2016) rather than our original guidance of 12%. This 
decline is primarily due to the impact of weaker Sterling on our H2 fares.We would caution that this revised 
guidance remains heavily dependent upon no further weakness in H2 fares (-13% to -15%) or Sterling from its 
current levels (€1 = £0.9050).
Dublin-based Ryanair had very vocally campaigned for Britain to remain in the EU, promising its biggest ever sale if 
voters backed Remain.
Ryanair blames sterling slump as it pulls down profit guidance
It warned in the aftermath of the referendum that it would “pivot” its growth away from UK airports and focus on 
expanding more at other bases in the EU, calling the vote to leave the bloc a “surprise and a disappointment”.
Load-Date: October 18, 2016
End of Document
Next shares stand out on hopes for retailer’s market share
Next shares stand out on hopes for retailer’s market share
 
FT.com
October 18, 2016 Tuesday 5:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 421 words
Byline: Gavin Jackson
Body
Clothing retailer Next was the big winner among UK stocks on Tuesday thanks to an upbeat note from Deutsche 
Bank.
The shares gained 5.3 per cent, closing at £47.44. Analysts with the investment bank said the high-street brand 
would benefit from an increasing market share despite a challenging sales backdrop for clothes companies that 
have had to contend with “unhelpfully warm weather through late August and September.”
As well as growing its share, innovations in the company’s mail-order business and an easier fourth quarter to 
compare the results with “leave us confident Next should see a reacceleration in sales as seasonal peak 
approaches”, said Deutsche Bank.
By contrast, luxury brand Burberry lost 7.2 per cent to close at £14.03. The fall came despite the retailer 
announcing a £125m boost in revenues because of the falling pound. 
Sales fell in Hong Kong and Macauand the company’s house broker Bank of America Merrill Lynch downgraded the 
stock citing “limited upside from here.”
Supermarket chain Tesco enjoyed a 3.5 per cent increase in its shares, which closed at 208p, following reports 
from research group Kantar Worldpanel that the company had seen the first increase in market share for five years. 
Tesco was the only one of the “big four” supermarkets to see sales growth.
Overall, the FTSE 100 finished up 0.8 per cent to close at 7,000.06.
Next shares stand out on hopes for retailer’s market share
Despite a profit warning from Irish budget airline Ryanair, its rival EasyJet became the second-biggest gainer on the 
index. 
While Ryanair warned that tough trading conditions and a falling pound would hit profits, it only cut its forecast by 5 
per cent — not as bad as the market feared. This helped EasyJet to a 5 per cent rise on the day, leaving its shares 
at 918p.
Newcastle upon Tyne based housebuilder Bellway announced a 40 per cent increase in its dividend after reporting 
increasing profits for the 12 months to the end of July. The company said that it had seen little effect from the result 
of the European referendum on demand for its houses.
The increase in the dividend will bring the total paid this year by the company, which is the UK’s fourth-largest 
housebuilder, to 108 pence. The FTSE 250 company’s shares rose 6 per cent to close at £23.86. 
However the biggest gainer in the mid-cap index was Restaurant Group, owner of chains including Chiquitos and 
Frankie and Benny’s, which jumped 8.8 per cent to close at 385 pence after news that the chief executive had 
increased his stake in the company. 
The FTSE 250 finished up 1.1 per cent at 17,994.41.
Load-Date: October 19, 2016
End of Document
FT Opening Quote: William Hill walks away from Amaya
FT Opening Quote: William Hill walks away from Amaya
 
FT.com
October 18, 2016 Tuesday 7:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1026 words
Byline: Siona Jenkins
Body
William Hill walks away from Amaya, Burberry sales down, Bellway profits jump. FT Opening Quote, with 
commentary by City Editor Jonathan Guthrie, is your early Square Mile briefing. You can sign up for the full 
newsletter here. 
William Hill has walked away from plans for a £4.6bn merger with  Amaya of Canada which had roused a chorus of 
disapproval from investors and former chief executive Ralph Topping.
The bookmaker, chaired by multi-tasking grandee Gareth Davis, says due diligence was “far from complete” and 
that it decided not to proceed after canvassing the views of shareholders.
Parvus, William Hill’s largest shareholder had warned the deal would destroy value. The gambling group, we must 
surmise, remains keen to combine with a partner investors might like. It has been left out of a whirl of consolidation 
in the gambling industry triggered by the growth of online wagering and higher regulation.
 Ladbrokes, which has outstripped William Hill under the canny leadership of Jim Mullen, has meanwhile 
announced a 12.1 per cent third quarter sales increase and is close to merging with Coral.
First-half sales have fallen 4 per cent in underlying terms at  Burberry, whose chief executive Christopher Bailey 
was earlier this year forced to announce he would switch to other duties. The decline reflects “strategic brand 
elevation”, whatever that means. This has driven down wholesale revenues 14 per cent to £287m.
FT Opening Quote: William Hill walks away from Amaya
Retail revenue rose 2 per cent underlying to £859m, in line with some analysts forecasts. Chinese demand 
improved but Hong Kong remains weak. The drop in sterling will bolster full-year profits by over £100m.
Full year profits before tax have fallen 31 per cent to £32.7m at  Asos, though pre-exceptional earnings are 37 per 
cent higher at £64m, a shade ahead of some analysts’ estimates. The online fashion company boasts it is 
“awesome on mobile” and that sales will grow at 20-25 per cent as it steps up capex.
 Ryanair, in contrast, has cut full-year net profits guidance by 5 per cent to €1.3-€1.35bn. The low-cost airline 
blames the weaker pound. Housebuilder             Bellway has meanwhile announced a 41 per cent full-year jump in 
profits before tax.
It could soon feel like old times. The official inflation report is today expected to show CPI rose 0.9 per cent in 
September. Economists think money’s buying power could be 3 per cent lower next year. Cue groaning among 
consumers and demonisation of energy companies, but better returns for retail banks and savers.
A legal opinion commissioned by  Sir Philip Green has concluded that a critical parliamentary report on the tycoon’s 
ownership of BHS was “unsupportable”, the FT relates. The opinion from highly-paid QC Lord Pannick says that if 
parliamentary privilege did not prevent a legal challenge, a court would set MPs’ findings aside.
But isn’t that the point of parliamentary privilege?
The House of Commons will scrutinise the work of its select committee on Thursday, in a debate on whether Sir 
Philip should be busted down to plain old P. Green Esq.
How about a hard Brexit with a soft centre? Andrew Mackenzie, boss of BHP Billiton, the world’s largest miner, has 
called for a “hard-headed” separation from the EU. But former deputy prime minister Nick Clegg is warning that an 
acrimonious split could imperil the marketing status of British chocolate made with vegetable fat, notably in the 
pleasant Birmingham suburb of Bournville.
Dairy Milk might have to rebrand as “vegelate” for continental sale. Unappetising.
Have a pleasant and productive day.
Beyond the Square Mile
Asian markets were mixed today’s trading. In Japan the benchmark Topix was flat and the Nikkei 225 edged up 
0.1 per cent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng added 1.1 per cent. China’s Shanghai Composite and the technology-
focused Shenzhen Composite were each up 0.5 per cent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 was up 0.4 per cent, while
The euro gained 0.2 per cent to $1.1017 in Asia.
The UK pound rose 0.4 per cent to $1.2228.
The dollar index, a measure of the US currency against a basket of global peers, was down 0.2 per cent at 97.696. 
In intraday trade on Monday the greenback hit its highest level since early March, before falling back as markets 
continue to recalibrate expectations for US interest rate rises.
Gold, which is sensitive to monetary policy expectations, was up 0.2 per cent at $1,258.37 an ounce.
Oil prices firmed in Asia after sliding on Monday. Brent crude, the international benchmark, and West Texas 
Intermediate were each up 0.5 per cent, at $51.79 a barrel and $50.21, respectively.
In the US overnight, the S&P 500 slipped 0.3 per cent.
Intraday
FT Opening Quote: William Hill walks away from Amaya
Theresa May is expected to discuss proposals for the expansion of Heathrow airport at a cabinet meeting today. 
She could  approve the proposals as soon as as soon as next week, with the British prime minister keen to signal 
that the UK is open for business despite Brexit, according to Whitehall officials.
Earnings season is well and truly underway with a handful of big retail and consumer names out on Tuesday. Those 
releases are rounded out by UK inflation data, and the retail price index (all times GMT):
08:00 EU trade ministers meeting to discuss EU-Canada trade deal
09:30 UK CPI
09:30 UK retail price index
The markets at 07:59
Asian markets
Nikkei 225 up +63.49 (+0.38%) at 16,964
Topix up +4.01 (+0.30%) at 1,357
Hang Seng up +322.04 (+1.40%) at 23,360
US markets
S&P 500 down -6.48 (-0.30%) at 2,127
DJIA down -51.98 (-0.29%) at 18,086
Nasdaq unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 5,200
European markets
Eurofirst 300 down -9.28 (-0.69%) at 1,332
FTSE100 down -66.00 (-0.94%) at 6,948
CAC 40 unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 4,450
Dax unchanged 0.00 (0.00%) at 10,504
Currencies
€/$ 1.10 (1.10)
$/¥ 103.99 (103.89)
£/$ 1.22 (1.22)
€/£ 0.8998 (0.9024)
Commodities ($)
Brent Crude (ICE) up +0.38 at 51.90
Light Crude (Nymex) up +0.39 at 50.33
100 Oz Gold (Comex) unchanged 0.00 at 1,254
Copper (Comex) up +0.01 at 2.11
10-year government bond yields (%)
US 1.78%
Germany 0.06%
CDS (closing levels)
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe -0.24bps at 19.67bp
Markit iTraxx Europe -0.3bps at 73.47bp
Markit iTraxx Xover +2.72bps at 335.6bp
Markit CDX IG +0.53bps at 76.15bp
Sources: FT, Bloomberg, Markit
Load-Date: October 18, 2016
FT Opening Quote: William Hill walks away from Amaya
End of Document
Ryanair : cutting fayres
Ryanair: cutting fayres
 
FT.com
October 18, 2016 Tuesday 9:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 164 words
Body
British Airways said recently it will scrap free food and drink on short-haul flights. Ryanair flyers never enjoyed such 
costly frippery — which is why the Irish airline will weather the coming slump in fares better than peers.
On Tuesday, Ryanair reduced its full-year profit forecast by 5 per cent, to about €1.3bn. The main cause is the 
weak pound; about a quarter of revenue is in the British currency, against about half at easyJet.
This is worse news for rivals than for  Ryanair. The airline is “load-factor active”; it cuts fares until planes are full. 
These fell 10 per cent in the first half and will fall by up to 15 per cent in the second. But passenger numbers and 
load factors will be higher — largely at the expense of competitors. Costs will fall by more than expected.
That suggests European aviation will be grim over the winter. Ryanair shares have done less badly than peers so 
far. Expect that trend to continue — and enjoy BA’s fayre while you can.
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair shares hold firm after profit warning
Ryanair shares hold firm after profit warning
 
FT.com
October 18, 2016 Tuesday 7:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 126 words
Byline: Nicholas Megaw
Body
Investors in Ryanair are taking the low-cost carrier’s rare profit warning in their stride this morning, with shares 
holding up after an initial drop across the sector at the start of trading.
Ryanair had a bumpy start to the day, with shares ranging from more than 2 per cent down to a slight rise. At 
publication time, however, the shares are down only 0.5 per cent, to €11.75, despite the company almost halving its 
expected rate of profit growth.
British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines also dropped more than 2 per cent at the start of trading, 
before recovering to a 0.4 per cent rise by publication time, at 379p.
Air France-KLM has similarly pared back its early 1.9 per cent loss to be down 0.3 per cent at publication time, at 
€4.98
Load-Date: October 18, 2016
End of Document
Douro valley and Oporto wines
Douro valley and Oporto wines
 
FT.com
October 13, 2016 Thursday 6:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1148 words
Byline: Jancis Robinson
Body
It used to take the Symingtons of the famous port family 12 minutes to commute by speedboat between their two 
wine farms, Quinta do Bomfim and Quinta dos Malvedos, on the river Douro. Today it’s much longer. They have to 
proceed with unaccustomed caution because of the wash from so many large pleasure boats. Ricardo Sousa 
Campos is the commercial director of Quinta da Romaneira and, like most of those in the northern Portuguese wine 
business, is based in the principal city, Oporto. However, he is trying to get out. “You can’t move for tourists 
nowadays,” he says. “Everyone’s signing up for  Airbnb.”
Oporto — or Porto as it is known in Portuguese — is buzzing, perhaps benefiting from the downturn in tourism to 
the likes of Turkey and north Africa. Ryanair flies in visitors from 12 countries, EasyJet from five.
Last month, for the first time in a few years, I visited the spruced-up city and the beautiful Douro valley upstream. I 
was amazed by the growth in tourism — not least because when I first visited the city in 1976 it was truly grimy and 
seemed to be full of dirty washing, cobbles and barefoot children. According to the official figures, the number of 
hotel-bed nights has risen by 57 per cent since 2012, with revenues from hotels alone up 70 per cent in the same 
period, not counting Airbnb and the like. Oporto expects to notch up 10 million bed nights in 2018. On every corner 
there seem to be stylish bars and restaurants that would not look out of place in Barcelona or Milan, and even the 
staid old port lodges in Vila Nova de Gaia, across the river from the old city, have transformed themselves into 
wine-themed “experiences”, complete with multilingual guides, souvenir shops and eating places.
Adrian Bridge, managing director of The Fladgate Partnership that — with Taylor, Fonseca and Croft — is a major 
player in the port business, is now almost better known as a hotelier. He converted a bit of land next to the Taylor’s 
Douro valley and Oporto wines
lodge in Vila Nova de Gaia into The Yeatman, a luxurious hotel with a Michelin-starred restaurant, and is now 
drawing up plans to transform the Infante de Sagres, Oporto’s most famous hotel. Last winter he performed a 
similar trick on the Douro valley’s biggest hotel, the Vintage House in Pinhão, which overlooks all those excursion 
boats.
There are generous EU subsidies and loans for both building and renovating hotels, which have encouraged other 
wine producers to go into the hotel business, not just in Oporto and Gaia but up in what was until recently the 
sparsely populated Douro valley, adding considerably to employment prospects there. Quinta de la Rosa, just 
outside Pinhão, for example, operates a popular small hotel as well as an admired wine farm.
The team behind another highly regarded producer of Douro table wines, Quinta do Vallado, has built 13 rooms at 
the quinta downstream of Pinhão and, more ambitiously, has created an eco-friendly eight-room hotel, Casa do Rio 
(river house), way upriver in the deserted Douro Superior region on the Spanish border. João Ferreira Álvares 
Ribeiro of Quinta do Vallado told me that from May this year they have enjoyed 100 per cent occupancy, and that 
their activities providing bed and board now represent 20 per cent of total turnover. “We stick to table d’hôte, so the 
margins are good — much better than in the wine business,” he said. He is worried that tourism in his region is 
growing dangerously fast but admits that it certainly helps the reputation of his wines: “This year we’ll sell €200,000 
worth of wine in our shop — at double margin. That’s more than our sales to most export markets.”
The growth of tourism must be some consolation for Portuguese wine exporters, who are currently grappling with 
the fallout from the economic collapse of both of their biggest export markets, Angola and Brazil.
The evolution of the Douro valley from deserted Unesco World Heritage site to tourist playground has been helped 
enormously by recent road building. Part of the magic of the Douro’s extreme climate — blisteringly hot summers 
and testing winters — is because of the mountains as high as Ben Nevis that shield it from the Atlantic. When 
Adrian Bridge first came to Portugal in 1982 it took five-and-a-half hours to drive to Taylor’s famous Quinta de 
Vargellas in the Douro valley; it now takes no more than two, thanks in particular to a 5.4km tunnel that opened last 
May. It is so new that when wine producer Dirk Niepoort drove me to the airport from the Douro last month, he 
initially forgot to take the new time-saving route.
It was only in the late 1970s that electricity arrived in the Douro, facilitated by the dams that have transformed a 
fast-moving river with rapids, over which flat-bottomed boats loaded with barrels of port used to be navigated every 
spring, into a series of lakes connected with locks for the pleasure boats. Port used to be foot-trodden in semi-
darkness but rising labour costs and the arrival of electricity have resulted in a range of automated alternatives, 
involving various forms of stainless steel and silicone pads, designed to emulate the human sole.
In the old days, when local workers were expected to spend eight hours picking grapes in the steep vineyards, 
followed by four treading them in the winery, are long gone, although a small proportion of top-quality port is still 
(just) trodden by 80 sticky purple feet. (This has, in its time, caused upset in some of the more fastidious markets — 
Japan, for instance.)
Looking ahead to even greater challenges finding labour, one of the most powerful port technicians, Charles 
Symington, of the family responsible for Dow, Graham, Warre and now Cockburn ports, has just begun trying out a 
mechanical grape harvester in the Douro. The terrain is so steep and varied that it is far from an obvious candidate 
for mechanisation, but he is using a machine designed for the precipitous vineyards of the Mosel valley in Germany.
The only modification needed, apparently, was a reverse gear — something it is far too late for the five Symington 
cousins, who invest all their dividends in new vineyards, to apply.
Ports worth flying in for
Bottle-aged ports
• Quinta do Noval 2014 (£495 a dozen in bond, Farr Vintners)
Douro valley and Oporto wines
• Quinta de Vargellas, VinhaVelha 2011 (£245 a bottle, The Vintage Port Shop, Hampshire)
• Dow 2011 (£125 a bottle, Soho Wine Supply)
• Taylor 2000 (£344.04 for six bottles, Berry Bros & Rudd)
• Quinta do Vesuvio 1994 (£53.59 a bottle, Nethergate Wines)
• Quinta de Vargellas 1987 (£79.95 a bottle, The Vintage Port Shop)
• Graham 1985 (£60 a bottle, Palmers Wine Store, Dorset)
• Taylor 1977 (£99 a bottle, Four Walls Wine)
• Quinta dos Malvedos 1965 (£225 a bottle, Cambridge Wine Merchants)
Wood-aged ports
• Graham 1972 Single Harvest (£207 a bottle, Hedonism)
• Taylor 40-year-old tawny (£98.98 a bottle,  Winedancer.com)
Stockists from  winesearcher.com
Illustration by Graham Roumieu
Load-Date: October 16, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet : the blame Dame
EasyJet: the blame Dame
 
FT.com
October 6, 2016 Thursday 10:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 346 words
Body
Airlines are fond of blaming delays and cancellations on external and “one-off” factors. They take the same 
approach to profit warnings; easyJet chief executive Dame Carolyn McCall said on Thursday that full-year profits 
would be some £25m below consensus forecasts because of service disruption and currency movements.
Her excuses are justified.  EasyJet is the biggest short-haul carrier in the UK (half of revenues) and the second-
biggest in France, so it is more exposed than peers to the effects of Brexit and terror attacks in Paris and Nice. 
Unlike Ryanair and Wizz, it reports in sterling, so it is no surprise that a weak pound has added £90m to full-year 
costs.
Dame Carolyn has also railed against the “irrational” expansion of other airlines. Here, she is on shakier ground. 
easyJet’s own capacity grew 6.1 per cent in its final fiscal quarter and is set to grow by more next year. So far, it 
has filled those extra seats, but only by cutting prices. Revenue per seat was almost 9 per cent lower in the quarter. 
True, easyJet has judiciously controlled the costs it can. But non-fuel costs are set to rise slightly next year, even 
before any additional burden arising from negotiations with the pilots’ union. And while fuel costs will drop sharply 
— four-fifths of this year’s requirements are hedged at almost $200 per tonne less than the previous year’s — they 
will do so at other carriers, too. Ryanair has already pledged to pass on its sharply lower fuel costs in the form of 
lower fares.
The 6 per cent fall on Thursday means easyJet shares have almost halved over the past year, worse than low-cost 
peers. Pre-tax profit forecasts have come down a third. There is a silver lining: lower tax rates on deferred liabilities 
mean post-tax income will fall less than pre-tax profit. That implies a dividend (based on a payout ratio of half of 
EasyJet : the blame Dame
post tax income) of 53p a share for a yield of 5.6 per cent, higher than more challenged rivals like Lufthansa and 
IAG. But like many of its setbacks, the tax windfall too is an external, one-off affair.
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: December 16, 2016
End of Document
Brexit and disruption take toll on easyJet outlook
Brexit and disruption take toll on easyJet outlook
 
FT.com
October 6, 2016 Thursday 8:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 485 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Full-year pre-tax profits at easyJet are expected to fall by a sharper-than-anticipated 28 per cent, Europe’s second-
biggest low-cost carrier warned on Thursday.
The company’s  trading update, ahead of full results in November, follows a profit warning in June prompted by 
economic uncertainty, excess airline capacity and air traffic disruption, which sent the company’s shares down 
sharply.
However, Carolyn McCall, chief executive, insisted current tough conditions represented an opportunity for easyJet 
to “build and strengthen” its market position.
The company said it expected full-year pre-tax profits in a range between £490m and £495m, compared with 
£686m for the  year to September 30, 2015. While easyJet had not previously forecast its profit for the year, 
analysts had expected a figure of between £497m and £517m.
EasyJet shares opened down almost 6 per cent on Thursday at 945p.
A series of European airlines have been forced to issue profit warnings as they absorb the impact of terrorist 
incidents, air traffic control disruption and economic uncertainty at a time when airline fleets are growing rapidly. 
EasyJet’s exposure to some of the markets suffering most severely from terrorism and its heavy dependence on the 
UK, where demand has suffered following the vote to leave the EU, mean it has been disproportionately affected.
Brexit and disruption take toll on easyJet outlook
EasyJet faces a challenge in many markets from Ryanair, Europe’s biggest airline by passenger numbers, which 
has consistently lower costs than its rival.
EasyJet said on Thursday that its cost per seat excluding fuel was likely to fall a better than expected 1.1 per cent 
for the year ending 30 September 2016, after stripping out the effects of currency movements.
However, the company expected the negative effect of currency movements to reduce pre-tax profits by £90m 
compared with the previous year, a £35m increase from its forecast in June. It expects a similar impact for 2016-17.
The company also faces one-off costs for setting up an operation in mainland Europe to ensure it can continue to 
operate flights between EU countries once its base in Luton, near London, is outside the bloc.
Nevertheless, Ms McCall reiterated her longstanding argument that easyJet’s robust financial position and its strong 
positions at some of Europe’s most attractive airports would ensure it survived the downturn in better shape than 
competitors.
The airline carried 73.1m passengers during the financial year, 6.6 per cent up on the previous year.
Ms McCall said the airline continued to attract record numbers of passengers.
She added: “We have been disproportionately affected by extraordinary events this year but our excellent network, 
cost control and revenue initiatives and our strong balance sheet underpin our confidence in the business. The 
current environment is tough for all airlines, but history shows that at times like this the strongest airlines become 
stronger.”
Load-Date: October 7, 2016
End of Document
Smith & Nephew sinks after Berenberg cut
Smith & Nephew sinks after Berenberg cut
 
FT.com
October 6, 2016 Thursday 6:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 429 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Smith & Nephew was among Thursday’s biggest fallers after Berenberg cut the medical devices maker from its 
“buy” list.
S&N management’s record anticipating problems is “not great”, while its conservative approach to the balance 
sheet is limiting growth prospects, Berenberg argued. The shares, which were trading ex a 12.3p dividend, slid 3.4 
per cent to £12.22. 
While S&N has been doing the right thing by cutting costs and investing in growth, the benefits over the past five 
years have been “largely offset by various mis-steps and one-off headwinds”, said Berenberg. 
Earnings growth has been blunted by issues including China market destocking, a slump in demand for metal-on-
metal hip replacements, the 2014 product recall of its Renasys wound therapy, and the failure of experimental 
spray-on skin. 
Given S&N’s diverse nature, both by geography and product, further setbacks are likely, the broker argued.
On the possibility of S&N being a takeover target, Berenberg saw Johnson & Johnson as a more viable bidder than 
Stryker or private equity funds, which it is said would struggle to find an exit. 
But S&N has been viewed as a takeout candidate since 1968, when Unilever launched an unsuccessful bid, and 
“investors cannot wait forever”, it said.
Smith & Nephew sinks after Berenberg cut
A sharp jump in gilt yieldsweighed across the wider market, pushing the FTSE 100 lower by 0.5 per cent, or 33.29 
points, to 6,999.96.
Airlines faded on a cautious update from easyJet, which dropped 6.9 per cent to a three-year low of 933.5p. British 
Airways owner IAG lost 3.9 per cent to 381.3p and Ryanair slid 1.2 per cent to s€11.74.
Marks and Spencer led the retailers lower, losing 2.1 per cent to 330.6p. 
Numis Securities downgraded M&S to “reduce” as part of research advising wariness of mature retailers, which it 
expected to underperform as Brexit begins to weigh on employment growth. 
Numis also turned cautious on Halfords, down 1.1 per cent to 347.1p, and Next, which slipped 1.2 per cent to 
£47.47.
Dunelm, the soft furnishings retailer, lost 4 per cent to 823p after reporting a difficult start to its financial year.
Leading the FTSE gainers, Croda took on 1.5 per cent to £36.11. UBS upgraded from “sell” to buy”, largely on a 
positive view of the chemicals group’s investment in a US bioethanol refinery. 
With costs due to normalise in 2018, Croda will have the balance sheet capacity to nearly double its dividend as 
well as spending £100m a year on bolt-on acquisitions, UBS forecast.
GKN advanced 0.5 per cent to 333p, with HSBC starting coverage of the engineer with a “buy” rating and 395p 
target price. 
Load-Date: October 7, 2016
End of Document
Lufthansa / Air Berlin : buying time
Lufthansa/Air Berlin: buying time
 
FT.com
September 29, 2016 Thursday 11:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 333 words
Body
Adding dozens of aircraft to your fleet at a time when investors are growing concerned about excess capacity and 
weakening demand looks illogical. But for  Lufthansa, a leasing deal with a rival is more about who flies the planes 
than who owns them. 
On Wednesday, Lufthansa said it would enter into a “wet lease” agreement with Air Berlin, under which the 
struggling smaller carrier will use 40 of its own aircraft to operate short-haul routes for Lufthansa. 
For Air Berlin this is about survival. Cutting its fleet size will allow it to focus on longer haul routes and business 
destinations. Its leisure routes, hived off into a separate unit, might interest other carriers. These priorities suit its 
major shareholder Etihad, without whose support Air Berlin would long since have collapsed. 
Lufthansa will repaint Air Berlin’s Airbus A320s in the livery of Eurowings, its low-cost subsidiary, whose fleet will 
effectively grow by almost half. A separate transaction — acquiring the remaining 45 per cent of Brussels Air — 
could expand it further. 
Eurowings will make a loss in 2016 and it is not clear that the Air Berlin arrangement, which starts in 2017, will 
improve that. But beefing up the unit sends a message to the German pilots’ union, with which Lufthansa remains 
locked in a dispute over pensions. Eurowings pilots have less generous retirement arrangements.
Helping prevent a possible disorderly break-up of Air Berlin plays well politically for Lufthansa. It also helps keep 
rivals at bay. Ryanair, with a big cash pile and rock-bottom costs, is keen on expanding in Germany. So long as it is 
confined to secondary airports in cities such as Frankfurt, Düsseldorf and Munich, its threat is blunted, leaving 
Lufthansa to focus on cutting its costs. 
Lufthansa / Air Berlin : buying time
But it is only a stopgap. Lufthansa shares are down 30 per cent this year. A €500m bond sale was abandoned 
earlier this week. Nervy investors would be more reassured by peace with the pilots, or profits at Eurowings. 
Email the Lex team at 
Load-Date: September 30, 2016
End of Document
BA to charge for meals in short-haul economy
BA to charge for meals in short-haul economy
 
FT.com
September 29, 2016 Thursday 3:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 393 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
British Airways will phase out free meals in economy on short-haul flights in favour of paid-for food from Marks and 
Spencer.
The move by  BA is in line with wider trends in which many legacy airlines have made their services to economy 
passengers increasingly similar to those of their low-cost rivals. Travellers on EasyJet and Ryanair are well used to 
the clicking sound of paid snack cart.
BA, part of the International Airlines Group, said a free meal service for passengers in its Club Europe business 
seats will be maintained.
Similar moves at other airlines have upset passengers who felt they were losing out on free meals. After he was 
appointed last year, Oscar Munoz, chief executive of United Airlines, restored free snacks in short-haul economy to 
placate passengers.
BA said the change followed “  extensive customer research and feedback” that highlighted dissatisfaction with 
short-haul economy catering.
“The research . . . found flyers want more choices that reflect what they would normally select when out and about,” 
the airline said.
Alex Cruz, BA’s chief executive, said M&S was a “well-known, premium British brand”, and added: “It’s an ideal 
partnership, providing our customers with a choice of products they recognise and value.”
BA to charge for meals in short-haul economy
Passengers will be able to pay for meals with Avios, the points they accrue as members of BA’s Executive Club 
frequent flyer programme.
Items will range in price from £1 for a packet of crisps to £4.95 for a spiced chicken with quinoa and rice salad. The 
arrangements start from January 11 on flights to and from London Heathrow and from summer next year at 
Stansted and Gatwick.
John Strickland, an independent airline consultant, welcomed the change, saying BA had ended up in recent years 
in a “no man’s land” in catering in short-haul economy.
“It’s become very difficult to work out what the catering offering is,” Mr Strickland said. “Am I going to get a breakfast 
or some kind of damp, shrink-wrapped croissant or would I be better to go straight to Pret A Manger?”
Passengers would now know, Mr Strickland said, that they were going to have to pay for food. But he went on: “You 
know you’re going to be able to buy something of good quality.”
Passengers tended to complain initially about the loss of free food but grew happier once they realised the 
replacement offered better choice and quality, he added.
Load-Date: September 30, 2016
End of Document
Air Berlin cuts fleet, staff in major restructuring
Air Berlin cuts fleet, staff in major restructuring
 
FT.com
September 28, 2016 Wednesday 7:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 248 words
Byline: Financial Times
Body
Air Berlin is to slash its operating fleet and devote 40 aircraft to operating services for the rival Lufthansa Group, in 
a significant restructuring that will cost more than 10 per cent of the jobs at Germany’s second-biggest airline.
The announcement comes after a long period of mounting losses for the airline, which has struggled to bring down 
its costs to compete against Ryanair, EasyJet and Lufthansa’s Eurowings low-cost operation, reports Robert 
Wright in London.
The airline has required repeated bail-outs from Etihad, the Abu Dhabi-based airline that bought into the company 
in 2012 and currently holds a 29 per cent stake.
But, despite long-running restructuring cuts, the company lost €271m on €1.71bn turnover in the first half this year.
Air Berlin said that its “touristic” business – its charter operations – would be combined in a separate unit “with a 
view to evaluate strategic options”.
Out of its total fleet of 144 aircraft, it plans to provide another 40 Airbus A320 aircraft to the Lufthansa Group, with 
Air Berlin operating 38 of the aircraft with its own crews on Lufthansa’s behalf.
Air Berlin will continue to operate a “reduced core fleet” of 75 aircraft on long-haul routes from its two hubs in Berlin 
and Duesseldorf. It indicated it would also seek to bring down costs for the remaining members of its staff – it 
employed 8,656 as of June 30 – through negotiations with unions.
Air Berlin cuts fleet, staff in major restructuring
Air Berlin said the restructuring would create a “lean, dedicated network carrier”.
Load-Date: September 28, 2016
End of Document
Air Berlin to slash capacity in overhaul
Air Berlin to slash capacity in overhaul
 
FT.com
September 28, 2016 Wednesday 8:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 613 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Air Berlin is to slash its operating fleet and devote 40 aircraft to operating services for the rival Lufthansa Group, in 
a significant restructuring that will cost more than 10 per cent of the jobs at Germany’s second-biggest airline.
The  announcement comes after a long period of mounting losses for Air Berlin, which has struggled to bring down 
its costs to compete against Ryanair, easyJet and Lufthansa’s Eurowings low-cost operation.
The airline has required repeated bailouts from Etihad, the Abu Dhabi-based airline that bought into the company in 
2012 and now holds a 29 per cent stake.
The company lost €271m on €1.71bn turnover in the first half this year.
Air Berlin said that its “touristic” business — its charter operations — would be combined in a separate unit “with a 
view to evaluate strategic options”. Out of its total fleet of 144 aircraft, it plans to provide up to 40 Airbus A320 
aircraft to Lufthansa, with Air Berlin operating the aircraft with its crews on behalf of two Lufthansa subsidiaries.
Air Berlin will continue to operate a “reduced core fleet” of about 75 aircraft on long-haul routes to destinations such 
as the US and China from its hubs in Berlin and Düsseldorf. It indicated it would seek to bring down costs for the 
remaining members of its staff — it employed 8,656 as of June 30 — through negotiations with unions.
Air Berlin said the restructuring would create a “lean, dedicated network carrier”.
Air Berlin to slash capacity in overhaul
For Lufthansa, the deal ensures that Air Berlin remains afloat. The airline might otherwise have collapsed, making it 
easier for other low-cost carriers to attack the German market. It will also substantially boost the capacity of 
Eurowings, its own low-cost operation.
Lufthansa said its leases on the aircraft would start from March 26 next year and last six years.
Of the leased aircraft, 35 will add to Eurowings’ 90-strong fleet. Another five will fly on behalf of Lufthansa’s Austrian 
Airlines subsidiary.
Lufthansa said the leases were to be agreed at “competitive market rates”. The agreements would require approval 
from the partners’ supervisory boards and the relevant competition authorities.
Air Berlin has struggled to operate as what one person close to the situation called a “jack of all trades” in a highly 
competitive airline market. It has been kept afloat only through cash injections by Etihad. The Gulf airline bought a 
stake in 2011 but has since found itself embroiled in tussles, including legal challenges, over how far it was allowed 
to sell its passengers seats on Air Berlin’s flights under so-called “code share” agreements.
Air Berlin is one of several investments to have gone badlyfor Etihad, which, like Qatar Airways, is seeking to build 
up its route network and passenger volumes to compete with Dubai’s Emirates, largest of the big three Gulf airlines.
Etihad said it supported Air Berlin’s “far-reaching restructuring strategy”.
“The new strategy creates a lean, focused business which can compete effectively,” it said. “We remain committed 
to the restructuring of that business as it moves forward.”
The refocusing of Air Berlin’s business model is expected to allow it to shift to offering flights on some routes — 
particularly those to the US — year-round, rather than merely seasonally. The company is expected to target mainly 
premium, business passengers with the new services.
The company’s struggles have been exacerbated by tough market conditions in European aviation. International 
Airlines Group, British Airways’ parent, Lufthansa and easyJet have all been forced to issue profit warnings amid 
economic uncertainty, disruption because of terrorism and repeated air traffic control strikes in France.
Load-Date: September 30, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet pilots back strike action in dispute over fatigue
EasyJet pilots back strike action in dispute over fatigue
 
FT.com
September 21, 2016 Wednesday 5:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 362 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Pilots at easyJet voted overwhelmingly to back strike action in a dispute over fatigue, the pilots’ union announced 
on Wednesday, in a fresh blow to Europe’s second-largest low-cost carrier.
The British Airline Pilots’ Association said 96 per cent of its 2,000 UK-based members at easyJet voted in favour of 
industrial action in the ballot. Turnout was 88 per cent.
However, it remains unclear whether the ballot will lead to flight disruption at the airline. Balpa said easyJet had 
made a “last-minute” offer to resolve the dispute.
“We will consider this carefully in meetings tomorrow before taking any further decisions,” the union said, adding 
that there were no plans at present to undertake industrial action.
EasyJet said it was committed to working with Balpa to find a resolution to the issue. “We hope to reach a mutually 
agreeable solution,” it said. “EasyJet can reassure its passengers that no industrial action is currently planned by its 
UK pilots.”
The dispute revolves around pilots’ unhappiness over the scheduling of their flights. Balpa has said the current 
practices are leading to excessive fatigue.
EasyJet’s shares fell 7p to £10.34 after Balpa’s announcement.
EasyJet pilots back strike action in dispute over fatigue
The ballot result presents a new challenge for easyJet, which faces fierce competitionfrom Ryanair, whose costs 
are lower.
The airline has suffered severe disruption from the economic uncertainty following the UK’s vote to leave the 
European Union as well as the threat of terrorism and French air traffic control strikes. 
The company said in July that revenue per seat for the July to September quarter was running 7.7 per cent below 
the same period last year.
EasyJet is also grappling with the effects of legacy airlines’ willingness to expand capacity faster than demand is 
growing. Carolyn McCall, the carrier’s chief executive, warned this month about the current “irrationality” of Europe’s 
aviation market.
If pilots were to strike, it would mark their first action at easyJet since the airline was founded by Sir Stelios Haji-
Ioannou in 1995.
EasyJet is the largest low-cost airline in the UK market. But Ryanair, Europe’s leading low-cost-carrier, has said it 
will overtake it this year.
Load-Date: September 22, 2016
End of Document
Travel updates: Amsterdam, Hong Kong and California
Travel updates: Amsterdam, Hong Kong and California
 
FT.com
September 9, 2016 Friday 10:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 435 words
Byline: Tom Robbins
Body
Amsterdam
Bugaboo, the Dutch company that transformed the pram and pushchair market when it was founded 20 years ago, 
is to launch its first range of luggage. Bugaboo pushchairs went on to be sold in more than 50 countries (and even 
honoured on a Dutch stamp in 2007). The company has similarly lofty ambitions for its luggage, billing it not simply 
as a range of suitcases but a “new mobility concept”. The Bugaboo Boxer is a modular system based around a 
wheeled-chassis on to which different sized bags can be clipped. Fully loaded, the chassis can carry a full-size 
case, a carry-on bag and several smaller laptop and soft bags. The chassis alone weighs 3.2kg but the neat trick for 
air passengers is that it can be folded up to become part of the carry-on bag, thus avoiding eating into the weight 
allowance for checked bags. Bugaboo says the folded chassis will meet size regulations for carry-ons for “most” 
airlines (although not Ryanair). As with the company’s pushchairs, prices are high: the chassis costs £480, full-size 
case £350, cabin bag £310. It will be available on September 26.  bugaboo.com/bugabooboxer
Hong Kong
Cathay Pacific will fly its last passenger service using a Boeing 747 next month. The airline first began using the 
aircraft — the original jumbo jet — in 1979, and says its fleet of 747s has carried 160m people. Cathay has been 
gradually replacing its fleet with more fuel-efficient alternatives; the final passenger 747 flight will be from Tokyo to 
Hong Kong on October 1. Other airlines have made similar moves — Air France, Japan Airlines, Air New Zealand 
and Singapore Airlines have already retired their final 747s; Delta is due to follow suit in 2017. Nevertheless, 47 
Travel updates: Amsterdam, Hong Kong and California
years after it first flew, the so-called “Queen of the Skies” is unlikely to disappear totally for several years yet: British 
Airways alone still operates 38.  cathaypacific.com
California
Timber Cove, a 1960s retreat perched on cliffs in Sonoma County, is to be relaunched this month following a major 
renovation. The resort opened in 1963 with buildings inspired by Frank Lloyd Wright and overlooked by “The 
Expanding Universe”, a 93ft obelisk created by the Californian sculptor Beniamino Bufano. Photographer Ansel 
Adams was among many artists who became regular guests. After an eight-month closure for rebuilding and 
redecoration, it now has 46 guest rooms designed to appeal to the “modern hippie”, with a mix of modern and retro 
furniture and heavy use of redwood and stone. The original A-frame structure remains, housing the bar and public 
areas. Double rooms cost from $210;  timbercoveresort.com
Load-Date: September 23, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet chief critical of legacy rivals’ approach
EasyJet chief critical of legacy rivals’ approach
 
FT.com
September 8, 2016 Thursday 4:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 384 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of easyJet on Thursday accused some of Europe’s legacy airlines of irrational behaviour, 
saying they were adding “deeply unprofitable” routes amid lacklustre economic growth on the continent.
At an aviation conference in London, Dame Carolyn McCall claimed certain rivals were chasing short-term, 
unsustainable revenues.
She was speaking asEuropean airlines grapple with a mixture of economic uncertainty, air traffic control disruption 
and terrorism that have driven down fares and profits sharply.
EasyJet’s shares fell in June after the low-cost airline warned that its profit would be hit by several factors including 
Britain’s decision to leave the EU.
However, speaking at the World Low-Cost Airlines Congress, Dame Carolyn said some legacy airlines were adding 
new routes that would ultimately lose them money.
The routes were currently making money for the airlines because of lower oil prices, but that approach was 
“unsustainable” because fares would fall to reflect carriers’ reduced fuel expenses, she added.
“There’s a bit of irrationality in Europe at the moment,” said Dame Carolyn. “[Airlines are] putting in capacity which 
is deeply unprofitable.”
She said  easyJet, by contrast, made money whether oil prices were high or low.
EasyJet chief critical of legacy rivals’ approach
Dame Carolyn did not name any of the legacy airlines whose tactics she was criticising. But Air France-KLM, 
International Airlines Group and Lufthansa have all come under pressure on European short-haul routes from low-
cost airlines led by Ryanair and easyJet.
EasyJet, however, faces its own challenges following Britain’s vote to leave the EU in the June referendum.
The airline has become Europe’s second-largest low cost carrier by revenue by capitalising on the creation of a 
single EU aviation market in the 1990s.
This market allows EU airlines to operate services between any two destinations within the regional bloc, and 
easyJet has grown rapidly over the past 20 years through these arrangements.
But Dame Carolyn dismissed the Brexit vote’s significance for easyJet, which plans to circumvent any regulatory 
changes by seeking an air operator’s certificate in mainland Europe.
“We are a growth business,” she said. “We’ll continue to be a growth business, regardless of Brexit, regardless of 
the cyclical effect of low oil or excess capacity.”
Load-Date: October 6, 2016
End of Document
Pearson slides as rivals warn on textbook sales
Pearson slides as rivals warn on textbook sales
 
FT.com
September 8, 2016 Thursday 5:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 450 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Pearson hit a three-month low on Thursday after weak results from two competitors deepened concerns that 
academic publishing is suffering from a structural downturn.
John Wiley and Barnes & Noble Education both reported sharp falls in textbook sales, with Wiley warning that its 
traditional publishing business was “under considerable pressure, particularly in education”.
Students are increasingly aware of textbook rentals and ebooks, and are getting books when needed rather than at 
the start of each academic year, Wiley said. Both companies also cautioned that campus bookstores have been 
keeping inventories tighter this year, having had a slew of returns in 2015. 
The news “strengthens our conviction both that [Pearson] will both deliver another profit warning and that its 
problems are primarily structural in nature,” said Liberum. “Our biggest concern with Pearson is in its US Higher 
Education business (estimated 45 per cent of group profits) and, primarily, that students are shifting away from 
expensive textbook purchases. Wiley’s comments yesterday suggest that this shift is real and also that it appears to 
be gaining momentum.”
Pearson, down 7.7 per cent to 797p, was also affected by news this week that the for-profit college ITT Technical 
Institute had  shut down its 130 campuses. Regulatory scrutiny of US colleges is increasing, which will hit enrolment 
numbers and cut the chance of a Pearson’s higher education business recovering, Goldman Sachs said.
Pearson slides as rivals warn on textbook sales
An uneventful wider market saw the FTSE 100 edge 0.2 per cent higher, up 12.12 points to 6,858.70. Micro Focus 
led the way, up 14.7 per cent to £22.43, after agreeing a reverse takeover of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s software 
division.
Airlines gained after easyJet chief executive Carolyn McCall said at an airlines conference in London that the Brexit 
vote had no effect on long-term outlook, and that ticket pricing was “very similar” to last year. EasyJet rose 3.7 per 
cent to £11.97 and IAG was up 4 per cent to 422.1p, helped by positive numbers overnight from Delta Air Lines.
Ryanair gained 3.3 per cent to €13.28, with Davy setting out a case for the stock to double. “A step-up in ancillary 
revenues, the game-changing economics of [Boeing] MAX deliveries and potentially more than €5.5bn in cash 
returns to shareholders over five years underpin a compelling medium-term investment case,” it said.
RSA Insurance took on 0.9 per cent to 506.5p after HSBC turned positive, in part on sterling’s recent weakness.
WPP slipped 1.1 per cent to £17.90 after Carat, the media buying agency owned by Dentsu, trimmed its 2016 and 
2017 global ad spend forecasts to reflect a sharp deterioration in the outlook for the UK and Brazil.
Load-Date: September 9, 2016
End of Document
La Compagnie airline cancels London route, blames Brexit vote
La Compagnie airline cancels London route, blames Brexit vote
 
FT.com
September 5, 2016 Monday 1:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 195 words
Byline: Nathalie Thomas
Body
French airline La Compagnie is to end business-class-only flights between the UK’s Luton airport and New York, 
blaming the Brexit vote for its decision.
In a statement on its website (below), La Compagnie said it will instead introduce a second daily flight from Paris to 
New York.
The last flight between London and New York will take off on September 24. Customers who had booked tickets 
beyond that date will be offered a full refund or can choose instead to fly between Paris and New York. A transfer 
flight will be offered between London and Paris.
The young airline, which launched thebusiness class-only flight from Luton in April last year, said its decision to end 
fights between London and New York came “in view of a new economic climate in Europe, fuelled by Brexit” which 
has “already affected various significant players within the airline industry”.
Ryanair, the Irish low cost airline, has  curbed its UK growth plans following the EU referendum result and will shift 
its focus to expansion at other airports in Europe.
Wizz Air, which operates in central and eastern Europe, has also scaled back its UK expansion plans in light of 
Britain’s vote to leave Europe.
La Compagnie airline cancels London route, blames Brexit vote
Load-Date: September 5, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair ’s $1bn Italian Job
Ryanair’s $1bn Italian Job
 
FT.com
August 17, 2016 Wednesday 11:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 342 words
Byline: Lucinda Elliott
Body
Low cost airline Ryanair is bringing La Dolce Vita to more passengers in 2017, back tracking on earlier plans to 
close routes in Italy following a u-turn over proposed tax hikes in the country.
Dublin-headquartered Ryanair plans to increase passenger traffic by 10 per cent in Italy, to 35m passengers next 
year, after the Italian government reversed plans for a municipal tax hike. The airline will invest $1bn in a shiny new 
10-aircraft fleet and open 44 new routes across 23 regional airports that will create 2,250 jobs.
Back in February, Ryanair had said it would cut routes and jobs in Italy, blaming the government for a 40 per cent 
increase in passenger departure taxes. At the time David O’Brien, Ryanair’s chief financial officer, wanted to drop 
16 routes and some 600 jobs by October after the government raised departure taxes to €9 from €6.50 to help 
subsidise layoffs at former flagship carrier Alitalia.
Recently appointed Italian transport minister, Granziano Delrio, has since changed airport guidelines as part of a 
new stimulus package that should enable the country’s regional airports to compete on a level playing field with 
airports in Rome and Milan.
Italian prime minister Matteo Renzi in May floated the possibility of reducing corporate taxes next year, on top of 
plans to cut property tax in 2016 and lower income taxes for Italians as early as 2017, instead of 2018. 
Across Europe, Ryanair plans to increase traffic by 10 per cent this year to 117m passengers as it tries to lure more 
customers away from struggling “legacy” carriers that suffer from higher cost bases.
Ryanair ’s $1bn Italian Job
But its expansion comes during a challenging time for the European aviation industry, as demand has fallen in the 
wake of recent terrorist attacks, while airlines’ profitability has also been eroded by a number of strikes, particularly 
in France. Rival airlines are also expanding.
Ryanair last month signalled its willing to take on competitors by cutting prices – it is expecting average fares to fall 
8 per cent over the first half of its financial year .
 
Load-Date: August 17, 2016
End of Document
Lufthansa scales back growth plans amid economic gloom
Lufthansa scales back growth plans amid economic gloom
 
FT.com
August 2, 2016 Tuesday 3:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 479 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
Lufthansa has become the latest European airline to announce a scaling back of growth plans in response to 
worldwide economic uncertainty, anxiety over terrorism and air traffic disruption.
On Tuesday, the German group, which owns a series of European airlines including Swiss and Austrian Airlines, as 
well as its flagship  Lufthansa brand, said it was scaling back the expansion of its winter timetable from 6 per cent to 
5.4 per cent.
It disclosed the change as it reported first-half adjusted earnings before interest and tax — a measure that excludes 
some accounting charges — had risen 13 per cent to €529m, on revenues that were down 2.1 per cent to €15bn.
After news of the revised growth plan, Lufthansa shares were down 2.4 per cent in lunchtime trading in Frankfurt, at 
€10.41. They have now fallen by more than €1 since a profit warning on July 20, when the company sharply 
downgraded its forecast for full-year profits.
Lufthansa’s scaling back of its plans follows an announcement on Friday by International Airlines Group, British 
Airways’ parent, that it was also cutting back its plans for the winter amid tough trading conditions.
European airlines have been reining in growth in an effort to avoid flooding the market with excess capacity, which 
would drive down fares. Meanwhile, Ryanair, the continent’s biggest low-cost carrier, is preparing for a price war as 
it seeks to fill flights during a significant expansion of its fleet.
Lufthansa scales back growth plans amid economic gloom
Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa’s chief executive, warned that the industry had to prepare for a “difficult second half-
year”.
“The terrorist attacks in Europe and also the increasing political and economic uncertainties are having a tangible 
impact on passenger volumes,” he said. “The forward bookings, in particular for our long-haul services to Europe, 
have declined significantly. We expect the high pricing pressure to continue.”
Under Lufthansa’s revised growth plans, it will operate one fewer long-haul aircraft and six fewer short-haul aircraft 
over the winter than it had previously intended.
In the first half of the year, the airline’s improved performance was largely due to a 42 per cent jump in earnings 
before interest and tax at the core Passenger Airline Group, to to €393m. However, sales at the division declined 
2.9 per cent to €11.3bn as a result of a 6.6 per cent decline in revenue per available seat kilometre, to 7.6 cents.
Mr Spohr said recent market developments underlined the importance of pressing ahead with cost-reduction 
initiatives.
In the Logistics Business Group, the company’s air cargo operation, Lufthansa lost €45m before interest and tax in 
the first half, compared with a €50m profit in the first half last year. Revenue fell 19 per cent to €976m.
It blamed “massive market overcapacities”, which have caused yields in air freight to fall to levels last seen during 
the financial crisis of 2008-09.
Load-Date: August 2, 2016
End of Document
