European Markets Pulled Back On China Concerns & Falling Crude Prices
European Markets Pulled Back On China Concerns & Falling Crude Prices
RTT News (United States)
February 1, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 963 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets ended the first session of the new trading week in the red. Following the rally 
at the end of the prior trading week, stocks gave up early gains Monday due to falling crude oil prices and renewed 
concerns over China. Disappointing Chinese manufacturing data spooked investors and caused oil prices to turn 
lower.
Chinese manufacturers signaled deterioration in operating conditions at the start of 2016 but the pace of contraction 
slowed slightly from December, the results of a private survey showed Monday.
However, official data released by the government showed that the manufacturing sector underwent a faster 
contraction than seen at the end of 2015.
The Caixin Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 48.4 in January from 48.2 in December, Markit said. Nonetheless, 
activity has been contracting for the eleventh successive month.
At the same time, the official manufacturing PMI fell to 49.4 in January from 49.7 in December. According to the 
National Bureau of Statistics report, the sector contracted for the sixth straight month.
The official non-manufacturing PMI dropped to 53.5 from 54.4 in December but stayed in positive territory.
The European Central Bank will review and possibly reconsider its monetary policy stance when it meets in March, 
Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said Monday.
"But for the recovery to become structural - and thus to increase growth potential and reduce structural 
unemployment - monetary policy does not suffice," policymaker said at a conference in Budapest.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks decreased 0.79 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, lost 0.43 percent.
The DAX of Germany dropped 0.41 percent and the CAC 40 of France fell 0.56 percent. The FTSE of the U.K. 
declined 0.39 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.11 percent.
In Frankfurt, Dialog Semiconductor rose 1.30 percent. The chipmaker is eyeing new acquisition targets to spur 
growth, its chief executive told German weekly Euro am Sonntag.
Lab equipment maker Sartorius climbed 6.86 percent after updating its medium-term forecast.
European Markets Pulled Back On China Concerns & Falling Crude Prices
BMW dropped 1.64 percent and Daimler fell 0.65 percent. Volkswagen also finished lower by 0.94 percent.
In Paris, Total sank 2.25 percent, but Technip advanced 0.92 percent.
Vivendi decreased 5.34 percent and LafargeHolcim weakened by 2.73 percent.
In London, HSBC Holdings dropped 1.60 percent on a report it will impose a hiring and pay freeze globally in 2016 
as part of its drive to cut as much as $5 billion in costs by the end of 2017.
Rolls-Royce Holdings finished unchanged despite winning a $2.7 billion order for Trent 1000 engines.
BT Group climbed 1.93 percent after the telecoms giant delivered a strong performance in the final quarter of 2015 
and announced a new organizational structure.
Ryanair Holdings jumped 5.45 percent after strong third-quarter earnings.
Nokia sank 11.29 percent in Helsinki, after the firm said it had settled a lengthy patent dispute with South Korea's 
Samsung.
The euro area manufacturing sector growth slowed as estimated in January with rates of expansion in output, new 
orders and new export business all easing at the start of the year, final survey data from Markit showed Monday.
The final manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index fell to 52.3 in January from 53.2 in December. The reading 
matched flash estimate.
British manufacturing growth quickened unexpectedly at the start of the year to the strongest level in three months, 
survey data from Markit Economics showed Monday. The Markit/Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply 
Purchasing Managers' Index for manufacturing rose to 52.9 in January from 52.1 in December. Economists had 
expected the index to fall to 51.8.
U.K. mortgage approvals rose to a 4-month high in December, the Bank of England reported Monday. The number 
of mortgage approvals rose unexpectedly to 70,837 in December from 70,424 in November. This was the highest 
since August 2015. Economists had forecast approvals to fall to 69,600 in December.
U.S. manufacturing activity contracted for the fourth straight month in January, according to a report released by the 
Institute for Supply Management, although the index of activity in the sector did show a slight increase.
The ISM said its purchasing managers index inched up to 48.2 in January from a downwardly revised 48.0 in 
December, but a reading below 50 continues to indicate a contraction in manufacturing activity. Economists had 
expected the index to climb to a reading of 48.3 from the 48.2 originally reported for the previous month.
Personal income in the U.S. rose in line with economist estimates in the month of December, according to a report 
released by the Commerce Department on Monday, although the report also said personal spending came in 
virtually unchanged.
The report said personal income climbed by 0.3 percent in December, matching the increase seen in November as 
well as economist estimates.
Meanwhile, the Commerce Department said personal spending edged down by less than 0.1 percent in December 
after rising by 0.5 percent in the previous month. Spending had been expected to inch up by 0.1 percent.
With a jump in spending on public construction partly offset by a drop in spending on private construction, the 
Commerce Department released a report on Monday showing that U.S. construction spending rose much less than 
expected in December.
European Markets Pulled Back On China Concerns & Falling Crude Prices
The Commerce Department said construction spending inched up 0.1 percent to an annual rate of $1.117 trillion in 
December from the revised November estimate of $1.116 trillion. Economists had expected spending to climb by 
0.6 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2016 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 1, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair doubles profit in third quarter
Ryanair doubles profit in third quarter
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 1, 2016 Monday 12:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 126 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Europe's largest low-cost airline Ryanair on Monday said its profit doubled to 103 million 
euros (112 million dollars) in the last three months of 2015.  Passenger volume rose by 20 per cent to 25 million in 
the three months to December, the third quarter of the airline's financial year, while average fares dropped by 1 per 
cent to 40 euros.  'We are pleased to report that our low fares policy delivered strong Q3 traffic and profit growth,' 
said Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive.  Bookings were affected by the terrorist attacks in Paris in 
November, but the airline 'reacted to this softness by running price promotions and discounted fares to stimulate 
double digit traffic growth,' O'Leary said.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: February 1, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC Profit Advances 110% In Q3
Ryanair Holdings PLC Profit Advances 110% In Q3
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 1, 2016 Monday 7:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 122 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA.L) revealed earnings for its third quarter that gained ground 
from last year.  The company said its bottom line climbed to Euro102.7 million, or Euro0.0768 per share.  This was 
up from Euro48.9 million, or Euro0.0352 per share, in last year's third quarter.  The company said revenue for the 
quarter rose 17.7% to Euro1.33 billion.  This was up from Euro1.13 billion last year.  Ryanair Holdings PLC 
earnings at a glance:  -Earnings (Q3): Euro102.7 Mln. vs. Euro48.9 Mln. last year. -Earnings Growth (Y-o-Y): 
110.0% -EPS (Q3): Euro0.0768 vs. Euro0.0352 last year. -EPS Growth (Y-o-Y): 118.2% -Revenue (Q3): Euro1.33 
Bln vs. Euro1.13 Bln last year. -Revenue Change (Y-o-Y): 17.7%      
Load-Date: February 1, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC Profit Advances 110% In Q3
Ryanair Holdings PLC Profit Advances 110% In Q3
RTT News (United States)
February 1, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 134 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA.L) revealed earnings for its third quarter that gained ground from last 
year.
The company said its bottom line climbed to Euro102.7 million, or Euro0.0768 per share. This was up from 
Euro48.9 million, or Euro0.0352 per share, in last year's third quarter.
The company said revenue for the quarter rose 17.7% to Euro1.33 billion. This was up from Euro1.13 billion last 
year.
Ryanair Holdings PLC earnings at a glance:
-Earnings (Q3): Euro102.7 Mln. vs. Euro48.9 Mln. last year.-Earnings Growth (Y-o-Y): 110.0%-EPS (Q3): 
Euro0.0768 vs. Euro0.0352 last year.-EPS Growth (Y-o-Y): 118.2%-Revenue (Q3): Euro1.33 Bln vs. Euro1.13 Bln 
last year.-Revenue Change (Y-o-Y): 17.7%
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2016 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 1, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair doubles Q3 net profits to â,¬103m
Ryanair doubles Q3 net profits to â,¬103m
AirFinance Journal
February 2016
Copyright 2016 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 170 words
Highlight: Irish LCC increases Q3 profits by 110% from the previous year.
Body
Irish low cost carrier Ryanair has reported a 2015 Q3 profit of â,¬103 million ($112 million), a 110% increase in Q3 
profit from the year before (â,¬49 million), according to a statement from the company.
The airline cited several reasons for the rise in profits, including:
·Q3 traffic increasing by 20% to 24.9 million from the previous year.
·Unit costs falling by 5%
·â,¬398 million of Aer Lingus proceeds being distributed to shareholders in November after Ryanair sold its stake in 
the Irish flag carrier to IAG
"Following a strong first half of Q3, we noted weaker pricing and bookings immediately after the terrorist events in 
Paris and Brussels. We reacted to this softness by running price promotions and discounted fares to stimulate 
double digit traffic growth. While average fares fell 1% (previously guided flat pricing), this was offset by lower unit 
costs," said Michael O'Leary, CEO of Ryanair.
To see all of Ryanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: February 22, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches London Stansted-Toulouse route
Ryanair launches London Stansted-Toulouse route
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 28, 2016 Thursday 4:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 298 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced its first flights at Toulouse Blagnac with seven routes to/from Berlin, Brussels, 
Fez, London, Madrid, Malta and Warsaw from November 2016, which will deliver 600,000 new customers per 
annum and support 450 on-site jobs at Toulouse Airport.
Body
Ryanair's Toulouse operations will deliver: 7 new routes including Madrid (2 x dly), Brussels (dly), London (dly), 
Berlin (4 pw), Fez (2 pw), Malta (2 x pw) & Warsaw (2 x pw); and 38 weekly flights. In Toulouse, Ryanair's CCO 
David O'Brien said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce our first flights to/from Toulouse, our 32nd French airport, with 
7 new routes to Berlin, Brussels, Fez, London, Madrid, Malta and Warsaw from November 2016 onwards, which will 
deliver 600,000 customers p.a. at Toulouse Airport and support 450 jobs. "Our low fare services will be ideal for 
both business and leisure customers and we look forward to growing routes, traffic and tourism in Toulouse in the 
coming months and years. Our customers can also look forward to new aircraft interiors, new uniforms and more 
new routes, under our "Always Getting Better" programme, as we continue to offer so much more than just the 
lowest fares. "To celebrate our new routes from Toulouse we are releasing over 100,000 seats on sale at prices 
from just 19.99 for travel in March, April and May, which must be booked by Thursday (28 Jan). Since these 
amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out." 
Jean-Michel Vernhes, President of Aeroport Toulouse-Blagnac said: "The arrival of Ryanair at Toulouse-Blagnac 
confirms the strategic orientations of our airport, which relies on the growth of low cost traffic. Ryanair is the 
heavyweight in the low cost sector which hitherto lacked in Toulouse, and its presence will strengthen the supply of 
low-cost leisure destinations in Europe. This is certainly good news for the people of Toulouse and the inhabitants 
of the new region, which will have an even wider offer to travel around Europe with direct flights."
Load-Date: February 3, 2016
End of Document
Next generation to give aviation a new lease of life; Aircraft leasing
Next generation to give aviation a new lease of life; Aircraft leasing
Financial Times (London, England)
January 27, 2016 Wednesday
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - IRELAND: FINANCIAL SERVICES; Pg. 2
Length: 672 words
Byline: Vincent Boland
Highlight: Dublin, the centre of a global industry, is looking to the future, says Vincent Boland
Body
The late Irish businessman Tony Ryan is most associated these days with the creation of Ryanair, which he co-
founded and which has become one of the world's biggest airlines.
But as the man who laid the foundations for Ireland's leading role in the global aircraft leasing industry, he left 
another enduring legacy.
Mr Ryan, who died in 2007, was the founder and driving force behind GPA, which pioneered the aircraft leasing 
industry from its base at Shannon airport, in the west of Ireland.
GPA no longer exists - after a failed stock market listing nearly a quarter of a century ago, its assets were acquired 
by GE Capital. The industry has since moved to Dublin.
But as a hothouse for talent, GPA alumni have gone on to dominate the leasing business worldwide.
A fifth of the planes that fly around the world today are owned by aircraft leasing companies operating out of 
Ireland. Airlines lease about 40 per cent of their combined global fleet, and half the world's leased aircraft are 
supplied to airlines by those Irish companies.
As the Irish government states in its national aviation policy, outlined in August 2015: "Ireland is considered the 
birthplace of aircraft leasing and today it is one of the main industries in which Ireland is a global leader."
Next generation to give aviation a new lease of life; Aircraft leasing
The GPA legacy is not the only reason the aircraft leasing industry has made Dublin its home. There are fiscal 
reasons to do with the way the Irish tax system treats depreciation, as well as the country's 12.5 per cent corporate 
tax rate, one of the lowest in Europe.
It has an expertise in technical services to the airline industry and a nexus of professional services in law and 
accounting that has grown up around the leasing sector.
Ireland also has two key advantages that arguably cement its position as the global hub for the industry.
It was one of the first countries to sign and ratify the Cape Town Convention, the international treaty governing 
moveable property.
As an acknowledgment of Irish pre-eminence in the sector, the aircraft protocol of the convention placed the registry 
of aircraft equipment in Ireland, and decreed that legal disputes are heard in the Irish High Court.
The Irish government is also planning to adopt the Alternative A insolvency, which sets out the rules for dealing with 
the insolvency of entities that lease aircraft, including airlines. It is modelled on Chapter 11 of the US insolvency 
code.
As the official aviation policy document notes, doing so "will improve Ireland's attractiveness as a jurisdiction for 
aviation finance".
Kate Curneen, a senior associate in the aviation finance group at Dillon Eustace, a Dublin law firm, says locating 
the Cape Town Convention registry in Ireland, and having the Irish courts as the mediation mechanism, are key 
elements of the package the country offers the industry.
The other advantage is a web of at least 70 double taxation agreements with other countries, including those in 
Asia where the demand for leased aircraft is especially strong.
Asia is also where competition for Ireland as the global hub for aircraft leasing is strongest: Singapore is a notable 
base for the industry in the Asian market.
"There is competition from Singapore, but I don't think that Ireland's position is being eroded in any significant way," 
Ms Curneen says. "The Irish government is not being complacent about it."
The industry is now starting to think about how to keep growing. In November, the Financial Times reported the 
UCD Smurfit Business School in Dublin is preparing an MSc in Aviation Finance course with the first students 
expected next September. Ciaran Ó hÓgartaigh, dean of the school, told the FT: "The industry is thinking, and we 
are thinking, about where the next generation of industry leaders is going to come from."
Given the global nature of the industry, it is hardly surprising that some 40 per cent of the students enrolled for the 
first year are international. Subjects will include the analysis of leasing agreement, taxation and law, risk 
assessment, aircraft valuation and insurance.
Load-Date: January 26, 2016
End of Document
Strikes in France disrupt travel; 20 arrests made
Strikes in France disrupt travel; 20 arrests made
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
January 26, 2016 Tuesday 3:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 490 words
Body
       By Jessica Camille Aguirre, dpa   PARIS (dpa-AFX) - Blazing tyres and police in riot gear blocked traffic on an 
eight-lane highway near Paris on Tuesday morning as taxi drivers protested new competition they see as unfair, 
while teacher and air traffic controller strikes disrupted schedules across France.  At Porte Maillot in western Paris, 
police fired tear gas to disperse taxi drivers. Around 20 people were arrested during the morning, French media 
reported, many of the arrests made during the highway blockage. 
 One-fifth of flights in France were suspended by the civil aviation authority in response to a call made by multiple 
unions for air traffic controllers to strike against an overhaul of public bonuses.  Some 1,200 taxi drivers, protesting 
what they see as unfair competition from drivers who hold a kind of licence that allows them to work with app-based 
services like Uber, blocked roads around two airports and near Porte Maillot.  Part of their ire was directed against 
Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron, who has spearheaded a series of measures designed to liberalize the 
French economy and create jobs.  Their anger is also aimed at drivers using a VTC licence, which allows car 
owners to give people lifts using online apps.  'Marcon has killed me,' read one poster. Others slammed the 
'Uberization of the economy.'  'It's not normal that the VTC drivers pay 150 euros (162 dollars) - as opposed to a 
[taxi] licence which costs 200,000 euros,' protester David Martins said. 'It's not fair. They are engaged in an illegal 
practice.'  A spokesman for Uber said the company was not the target of the strikes, adding that it had issued a 
petition to the French government on Monday asking for clarification on the VTC rules.  Citing pressure on the 
government to restrict the VTC licences and 'limit competition while the sector is booming,' Uber, along with five 
other car services, called for more drivers to avoid what they said would be the 'end' of their highly popular apps.  
The rift between European taxi drivers and app-based services like Uber has sparked protests across the continent, 
and taxi drivers from Spain and Britain attended the protests in Paris to lend their support.  Prime Minister Manuel 
Valls called for an emergency meeting with taxi driver representatives in the early afternoon, calling the violence 
'inadmissible.'  Drivers in the southern city of Marseille were also protesting.  Between 13 and 33 per cent of 
teachers were also on strike across the country, unions and the Ministry of Education told French media, protesting 
for a raise in pay and criticizing some measures of proposed education reforms.  Broadcaster BFM-TV reported that 
there were few problems at the airports due to the air traffic controller strikes, largely because airline companies 
Strikes in France disrupt travel; 20 arrests made
warned their customers beforehand. Budget airlines easyJet and Ryanair reported extensive cancellations.   
Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: January 26, 2016
End of Document
The week in business
The week in business
Sunday Business Post
January 24, 2016
Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1033 words
Byline: Róisín Burke
Highlight: A look behind the stories with Róisín Burke
Body
Monaco investment maven ramps up her Irish plays with fresh spree
Tech investment can all too often be one big bro-fest, so it's nice to see a woman getting in on the action. 
It emerges that Nicole Junkermann, the Monaco-based hot shot investor, is one of those who came on board the 
fresh investment round at Coindrum, the Dublin start-up which recently raised $2 million. 
It's not Junkermann's first start-up investment here: she's also a backer of Irish online recruiter Jobbio, where she 
joined the Smurfits and other monied people in taking a stake. 
Founded by Ireland-based German Lukas Decker, Coindrum's service lets you change unwanted change into retail 
vouchers at airports. It is also backed by Ryanair co-founder Declan Ryan, Tom Kennedy of Hostelworld and Bobby 
Healy of Cartrawler. 
Tech firms backed by Junkermann have fared well in the past. One of them, Songza, went on to sell to Google for 
$40 million, and RelatelQ, sold to Salesforce for $390 million. Hopefully this augurs well for the Coindrum and 
Jobbio guys. 
The entrepreneur and private equity adviser was a founder of United in Sports, a (EURO)250 million sports and 
media rights business, and is a director at Shanghai Really Sports, one of the leading sports distributors in China. 
Outside the tech sphere, Junkermann has also invested in property development in Ireland. She helped to fund a 
project led by property developer Sean O'Reilly's family to build 150 houses in west Dublin, and the development of 
the Montrose student residence opposite UCD. 
Some of her money is reportedly managed here, by Alan Merriman's Elkstone Capital, where model Elle 
Macpherson is also a client of the Dublin wealth manager. 
The week in business
Interestingly, I hear that Elkstone recently helped refinance some of O'Reilly's property company debt as part of his 
bid to get back in the building game. 
McGowan joins board of 7Digital
I hear that HMV rescuer and Hilco boss Paul McGowan has joined another interesting music-based enterprise. 
The Louth man has been appointed to the board of musical downloads company 7Digital. It's an interesting move, 
because in past conversations I've had with McGowan, he has been a particular cheerleader for physical music and 
its renaissance, especially in the vinyl market - as well he might, being the owner of one of the biggest on-street 
music retailers. 
The restructuring firm boss is chairman at HMV and at Denby Pottery in Britain and Kraus Flooring in Canada, two 
of Hilco's other investments. He's been on the board of no less than 100 companies in his time, so he's a seasoned 
pro. 
Top business tweeters
It's that time of year, Twitter watchers! This week, PR firm Murray reveals Ireland's top media tweeters. 
The #murraytweetindex discloses the 100 most influential Irish journalists on, as one senior hack is fabled to have 
referred to it, the Twitter machine. As if egos in journalism need any stoking! 
Here's a sneak preview of the business hacks that made the grade, and naturally The Sunday Business Post 
represents well. 
Tom Lyons of this parish is the new numero uno of the journo business tweeters, toppling our own Ian Guider, who 
was last year's most influential business tweeter and moves into second place in the latest list. 
Tom has soared 35 places up the charts from last year to 12th on the overall most influential list, by far the highest 
ranking for a business journalist. 
Ian Guider and RTE's David Murphy are the only other two business journos to make it into the overall top 50. 
Murphy is a top three business tweeter with the Irish Times' deputy business editor Dominic Coyle in at fourth place 
and his colleague Laura Slattery is in fifth. 
You can check the full results of the most influential tweeters across sports, business, politics, news, property, 
fashion, food and more, out this week at murraytweetindex.ie. 
Grehan's insolvency dividend
I see that the trustees of boom era developer Danny Grehan's bankruptcy estate are to make an interim payout to 
creditors. 
The 51-year-old's occupation is given as project manager and he is now based in Middlesex in Britain, according to 
bankruptcy documents. Grehan set up a residential and commercial construction company back here last June. 
Grehan and his business partner brother Ray both went bankrupt in Britain in 2012, owing Nama in the region of 
(EURO)600 million, having failed to agree a business plan. Ray spent some time working in Nigeria, but is now 
back at large in his Kildare stomping ground. 
The Co Galway brothers famously paid a record (EURO)84 million per acre for the former veterinary college in 
Ballsbridge, Dublin 4 in 2005. Their fellow Galwaymen, the Comer brothers, bought it for a total of (EURO)22 million 
nearly ten years later. 
Avenue boss holds the line
The week in business
My, but the founder of Avenue Capital, one of the newest US funds looking for play in Ireland sure does lead an 
interesting life. 
Marc Lasry, the Moroccan-born hedge fund billionaire is the co-owner of an NBA franchise and was previously 
considered by former US president Bill Clinton as a potential ambassador to France. But over here he's better 
known as the man whose billions helped Cork developer Michael O'Flynn to broker a way out of his acrimonious 
battle with Blackstone, the US private equity giant which bought his debt from Nama. 
So it was interesting to see the high-profile billionaire as the subject of less-than-glowing reports in recent weeks. 
Reuters reported earlier this month that a "junk bond fund" run by Avenue had stopped the voluntary reporting of 
daily asset figures to tracking firms who keep an eye on the value of various funds. 
The particular fund in question was described as having experienced "heavy investment losses and investor 
withdrawals". Lasry hit back, saying his fund's performance was "in line". 
Tweete of the week
"For your info George, we never lost them - our marbles were stolen!" 
Yanis Varoufakis hits back at George Osborne's claim that he and the Greek finance minister had lost their 
marbles, with an  on-the-nose reference to the Elgins 
Word on the street
A whole lot of M&A action in the dairy sector is expected this year, plus more co-op consolidation. Glanbia is said to 
be shopping around . . . 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Michael O'Leary and Willie Walsh join new EU airline association; Michael O'Leary.
Michael O'Leary and Willie Walsh join new EU airline association; Michael 
O'Leary.
Business World (Digest)
January 21, 2016 Thursday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 331 words
Highlight: It was announced today that Europe's new airline association, Airlines for Europe (A4E), has been 
officially launched.
Body
It was announced today that Europe's new airline association, Airlines for Europe (A4E), has been officially 
launched.
It has been established by Europe's five largest airline groups - Air France KLM, easyJet, International Airlines 
Group, Lufthansa Group, Ryanair. The association represent the interests of its members when dealing with the EU 
institutions, international organisations and national governments on European aviation issues.
The five CEOs - Alexandre de Juniac, Carolyn McCall, Willie Walsh, Carsten Spohr and Michael O'Leary are the 
main representatives of the Association.
A4E will grow its member base over the next months, uniting European airlines to take forward changes that will 
increase their competitiveness and result in lower fares and more choice for passengers. They have set out three 
important measures. Firstly, they want to lower the cost of the EU's airports by ensuring that monopoly airports are 
effectively regulated, delivering reliable and efficient airspace by reducing the cost of Air Traffic Control (ATC) 
provision through completion of the Single European Sky and better economic regulation at EU level. Secondly, 
they want to deliver reliable and efficient airspace by reducing the cost of Air Traffic Control (ATC) provision through 
completion of the Single European Sky and better economic regulation at EU level. Finally, they want to stimulate 
more economic activity and jobs by creating the right regulatory environment, removing unreasonable taxes. The 
five CEOs today commented, "Today marks the beginning of a new era for European airlines. With the 
endorsement of the five largest airline groups in Europe, A4E will be a powerful vehicle to address the industry's 
issues. "For the first time, low-cost and network carriers are creating an association to support the adoption of a 
new European Aviation Strategy. Today we also call on all airlines in Europe to join us and make our voice even 
more powerful." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Michael O'Leary and Willie Walsh join new EU airline association; Michael O'Leary.
Load-Date: January 26, 2016
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
January 21, 2016 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 437 words
Body
FINANCIAL TIMES BERENBERG PROFITS RISE ON EXPANSION INVESTMENT Berenberg, a privately owned 
German bank, has reported record net profits in 2015, as investments in expanding its operations made during the 
financial crisis begin to pay off. The lender, which comprises a private bank and an investment bank, revealed 
yesterday that net profit increased 160 per cent to (EURO)104m ((EURO)80m) during the past 12 months, while 
gross income rose from (EURO)309m to (EURO)423m.
FIRST US OIL TANKER ARRIVES IN EUROPE The first oil tanker to sail from the US after restrictions were lifted 
on the country's crude exports has arrived in Europe, a landmark moment for an industry battling a collapse in 
prices. The Theo T Panamax oil tanker docked at the French port of Fos, having left Texas almost three weeks ago.
THE TIMES BT: BOARDS ILL-PREPARED TO FIGHT CYBERCRIME BT's network is being forced to deal with 
"hundreds of thousands" of cyber-attacks a day, an increase of 1,000 per cent in the past 18 months, Gavin 
Patterson, its chief executive, www.said.UK CAR MAKERS CRASHED BY SHORT-TERM THINKING Short-term 
ownership killed off Britain's domestic car industry, Tidjane Thiam, the chief executive of Credit Suisse and former 
boss of Prudential, said yesterday. British car markers were turned into "dividend machines" that prioritised short-
term returns to investors over the long-term success of the company, he said in Davos.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH GOVERNMENT ACTION The UK's oil and gas sector is putting pressure on the 
Government to avert a looming jobs loss crisis in the North Sea industry by taking "crucial" steps to support the 
industry and protect British jobs in the March Budget.
AIRLINE CHIEFS JOIN FORCES TO CUT AIRPORT CHARGES Europe's five biggest airlines, which are normally 
the fiercest of rivals, have teamed-up to urge the European Union to stop the "fleecing" of their passengers by 
"excessive" airport charges. The airlines are British Airwaysowner IAG, easyJet, Lufthansa, Ryanair and Air France-
KLM.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL WAL-MART TO HIKE WAGES FOR MOST US WORKERS Asda-owner Wal-Mart 
will give nearly all of its hourly store employees a pay raise next month and not just minimum wage earners, an 
attempt by the country's largest private employer to combat a tighter labour market and chronic turnover.
NEW MEXICO ATTORNEY GENERAL SUES VOLKSWAGEN Volkswagen AG's legal woes over its emissions 
scandal deepened this week with a suit filed by New Mexico alleging the car maker violated state laws on air quality 
and deceptive trade practices. State attorney general Hector Balderas filed the suit on Tuesday.
Load-Date: January 21, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair negotiates pay and conditions deal 76 cabin crew bases across Europe
Ryanair negotiates pay and conditions deal 76 cabin crew bases across 
Europe
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 21, 2016 Thursday 5:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 285 words
Highlight: Ryanair has negotiated five-year pay and conditions deal with all of its 76 cabin crew bases across 
Europe, following the successful conclusion of similar five-year deals at all 76 pilot bases.
Body
Following weeks of direct negotiations between Ryanair and its elected cabin crew representatives, using long 
established collective bargaining structures, Ryanair's cabin crew at all of its 76 bases have voted (by over 90%) to 
accept new 5 year pay agreements which will deliver: Guaranteed pay and allowance increases over the next 5 
years; Improved rosters with 5 days on, 3 days off (a bank holiday every week); Improved sickness benefits; New 
cabin crew uniforms from 1st Feb; and More crew promotions as Ryanair embarks on an 8 year, 400 new aircraft 
order. The successful conclusion of these deals means that both pilots and cabin crew at all 76 Ryanair bases have 
now secured improved pay and condition deals which will provide them with increased pay benefits and job security 
over the next 5 years. Ryanair's Chief People Officer, Eddie Wilson said: "The last 12 months have been an 
extremely busy period for Ryanair's people. 
We rolled out Year 2 of our "Always Getting Better" programme, while delivering increased load factors and industry 
leading traffic growth. We have also been working hard behind the scenes with our people to negotiate improved 
pay and working condition deals for all our frontline pilots and cabin crew. "The fact that Ryanair can use our 
improving financial performance to improve the pay and conditions of our frontline crew underlines the long 
standing success of Ryanair's collective bargaining model, which continues to deliver improved pay and conditions 
as well as job security for our pilots and cabin crew at a time when their counterparts in many other European 
airlines are facing job, pay and pension cuts or are engaged in industrial action to avoid such cuts."
Load-Date: January 27, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair says non-fuel costs will continue to fall; Ryanair says no...
Ryanair says non-fuel costs will continue to fall; Ryanair says no...
Business World (Digest)
January 20, 2016 Wednesday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 431 words
Highlight: Ryanair's costs per passenger will continue to decline over the next two years, even if fuel prices stop 
falling, due to cheap financing and fixed costs spread over more seats, a senior executive said on Tuesday.
Body
Ryanair's costs per passenger will continue to decline over the next two years, even if fuel prices stop falling, due to 
cheap financing and fixed costs spread over more seats, a senior executive said on Tuesday.
A collapse in fuel prices is providing a boon for airlines, but industry observers have warned that other costs often 
drift upwards as savings on oil boost profitability and reduce the pressure for unpopular cuts.
"I wouldn't see our costs creeping up," Chief Financial Officer Neil Sorahan told Reuters in an interview on the 
sidelines of the Airline Economics conference.
Ryanair's unit costs less fuel have fallen over the past two years. Asked if that would continue for the next couple of 
years, Sorahan said "we would hope so." He dismissed a suggestion by rival Wizz Air that Ryanair's costs were 
climbing as it shifts to more premium airports in a bid to attract more business passengers. Ryanair says its 
average unit cost is 29 euros and claims it is around a third lower than Wizz Air's. "The gap is going to widen," 
Sorahan said. Fixed costs such as marketing would fall on a per passenger basis as the airline increases capacity 
by around 8 percent a year. A deal with its largest hub, London's Stansted Airport, will cut costs per passenger as 
numbers grow. A major saving is the cost of financing. Ryanair issued 850 million euros (dollar 926 mln) of bonds 
this year at a cost of 1.12 percent. That low cost was described as "quite staggering," by Jimmy Dempsey, CFO at 
U.S. low-cost carrier Frontier Airlines at the conference in Dublin on Tuesday. The issue left Ryanair's net cash at 
976 million euros at the end of September and Sorahan said the airline had the capacity to buy all 52 planes due for 
order in the year to March 2017 with cash. "We may finance some of the aircraft out of cash ... we may top up some 
of that with some strategic financing," he said. Lower fuel costs combined with a push to improve customer service 
has helped Ryanair deliver record profits, but Sorahan said it was "not a given" the airline would return cash to 
shareholders in the coming financial year. It returned 400 million euros to shareholders in August via a share 
buyback and another 398 million earned from the sale of a stake in Aer Lingus in November. "We will most likely 
Ryanair says non-fuel costs will continue to fall; Ryanair says no...
every year or every second year do something, be it a buyback or a dividend, depending on where oil is, where the 
markets are," he said. When the company does decide to return cash, it is "slightly more biased towards buybacks" 
than dividends, he said. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 25, 2016
End of Document
EU-based airlines form new alliance to defend their interests
EU-based airlines form new alliance to defend their interests
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
January 20, 2016 Wednesday 6:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 313 words
Body
       AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - Five major European airline groups launched a new alliance on Wednesday aimed 
at promoting their interests when dealing with national and EU regulators, with their sector facing fierce international 
competition.  Aviation firms employ almost 2 million people in the European Union and are worth 110 billion euros 
(120 billion dollars) to the bloc's economy, according to the European Commission, the bloc's executive.  But 
competitors such as Emirates Airline, Qatar Airways and Etihad Airways have been gaining ground in the European 
market. 
 The new lobby group, Airlines for Europe (A4E), brings together Air France-KLM, easyjet, International Airlines 
Group, Lufthansa Group and Ryanair, and plans to expand its membership during the coming months.  'For the first 
time, low-cost and network carriers are creating an association to support the adoption of a new European aviation 
strategy,' the heads of the five corporations said in a joint statement.  A4E said it would work with the commission 
on measures it had unveiled last month to boost the bloc's aviation sector.  The airlines aim to 'increase their 
competitiveness and result in lower fares and more choice for passengers,' by tackling industry issues such as 
'large-scale airport monopolies, high charges, taxation and inefficiencies,' the statement said.  The group also 
presented its first study on Wednesday, showing that airport charges at the EU's 21 largest airports had increased 
by 80 per cent in the last 10 years, while flight costs dropped 20 per cent over the same period.  'While the airlines 
have reduced their fares, EU passengers continue to be fleeced by excessive airport charges,' the group's chief 
executives said, urging the bloc to 'take action lowering the cost of the EU's airports by ensuring that monopoly 
airports are effectively regulated.'   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: January 20, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Reaches 5 Year Pay Deal With All Of Its Cabin Crew Bases Across Europe
Ryanair Reaches 5 Year Pay Deal With All Of Its Cabin Crew Bases Across 
Europe
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
January 20, 2016 Wednesday 1:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 150 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair (RYA.L) announced that it has negotiated 5 year pay and conditions deal with all 
of its 76 cabin crew bases across Europe, following the successful conclusion of similar 5 year deals at all 76 pilot 
bases. The company said the deal will provide its pilots and cabin crew with increased pay benefits and job security 
over the next 5 years.  Ryanair's Chief People Officer, Eddie Wilson said: 'The fact that Ryanair can use our 
improving financial performance to improve the pay and conditions of our frontline crew underlines the long 
standing success of Ryanair's collective bargaining model, which continues to deliver improved pay and conditions 
as well as job security for our pilots and cabin crew at a time when their counterparts in many other European 
airlines are facing job, pay and pension cuts or are engaged in industrial action to avoid such cuts.'      
Load-Date: January 20, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Reaches 5 Year Pay Deal With All Of Its Cabin Crew Bases Across Europe
Ryanair Reaches 5 Year Pay Deal With All Of Its Cabin Crew Bases Across 
Europe
RTT News (United States)
January 20, 2016 Wednesday
Copyright 2016 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 164 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair (RYA.L) announced that it has negotiated 5 year pay and conditions deal with all of its 76 
cabin crew bases across Europe, following the successful conclusion of similar 5 year deals at all 76 pilot bases. 
The company said the deal will provide its pilots and cabin crew with increased pay benefits and job security over 
the next 5 years.
Ryanair's Chief People Officer, Eddie Wilson said: "The fact that Ryanair can use our improving financial 
performance to improve the pay and conditions of our frontline crew underlines the long standing success of 
Ryanair's collective bargaining model, which continues to deliver improved pay and conditions as well as job 
security for our pilots and cabin crew at a time when their counterparts in many other European airlines are facing 
job, pay and pension cuts or are engaged in industrial action to avoid such cuts."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2016 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: January 20, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair expands Stansted summer 2016 schedule
Ryanair expands Stansted summer 2016 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 207 words
Highlight: Ryanair has expanded its Stansted summer 2016 schedule with a new route to Palanga in Lithuania in 
addition to Milan Malpensa, Sofia and Verona, bringing to 130 summer 2016 routes, which will deliver 20 million 
customers per-annum and support 15,000 on-site jobs at Stansted Airport.
Body
Ryanair's Stansted summer 2016 schedule will deliver: 4 new routes to Milan Malpensa (2 x daily), Palanga (2 x 
weekly), Sofia (1 x daily), Verona (5 x weekly); Extra flights on 18 routes (incl Berlin x daily, Cologne 3 x daily, 
Edinburgh 5 x daily, Glasgow 4 x daily); and 1,120 weekly flights. UK consumers and visitors can choose from 130 
low fare Ryanair Stansted routes next summer and can look forward to further improvements, as Ryanair continues 
its "Always Getting Better" programme, which includes more new routes, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew 
uniforms and improved inflight menus. Ryanair's Sales and Marketing Executive, Lisa Buckley said: "Ryanair is 
pleased to announce further expansion to our Stansted summer 2016 schedule with a new route to Palanga in 
Lithuania, alongside new routes to Milan Malpensa, Sofia and Verona, which will deliver 20m customers p.a. and 
support 15,000 "on-site" jobs at Stansted Airport. "Seats on our new route to Palanga are on sale now at fares 
starting from just £19.99 for travel in April and May, which are available for booking until midnight Monday (18 Jan). 
Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid 
missing out."
Load-Date: January 25, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair announces launch of new winter route from London Stansted to Timisoara
Ryanair announces launch of new winter route from London Stansted to 
Timisoara
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 170 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced the launch of a new winter route from London Stansted to Timisoara, its newest 
base No. 78 and first in Romania, with a daily service beginning in November 2016.
Body
Ryanair celebrated its new London Stansted-Timisoara route by releasing seats for sale at prices starting from 
GBP19.99 for travel in November. These low fare seats are available for booking on the Ryanair.com website until 
midnight Monday (18 Jan). Ryanair's Lisa Buckley said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce a new daily London 
Stansted winter service to/from Timisoara (Romania) beginning at the start of November, which is now on sale on 
ryanair.com. "UK customers can look forward to further improvements in the coming months, including new aircraft 
interiors, new uniforms and more new routes, under our "Always Getting Better" programme, as we continue to offer 
so much more than just the lowest fares. "To celebrate our new route we are releasing seats from London Stansted 
to Timisoara from GBP19.99 for travel in November, which are available for booking until midnight Monday (18 
Jan). Since these amazing low fares will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and 
avoid missing out."
Load-Date: January 25, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair increases Business Plus fast-track security service to 25 airports
Ryanair increases Business Plus fast-track security service to 25 airports
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 127 words
Highlight: Ryanair has increased the number of airports that offer its Business Plus fast-track security service to 
25, following the addition of Birmingham, Budapest, Brussels Zaventem, Edinburgh, Eindhoven, Glasgow, 
Hamburg, Malaga, Rome Fiumicino, Stockholm Skavsta and Stuttgart.
Body
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair is pleased to add another 11 airports offering fast-track as part of our Business 
Plus service, ensuring business travellers enjoy a swifter airport journey, while saving time and money. Fast Track 
is now available at 25 airports, making Ryanair an even smarter choice for European businesses, with free airport 
check-in, flexible ticket changes, a 20kg bag allowance, priority boarding and premium seating. "Business and 
corporate travellers continue to choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry-leading punctuality and the largest route 
network in Europe with even more business routes, connecting Europe's major cities with additional flights and 
improved schedules, and ensuring great savings for businesses of all sizes."
Load-Date: January 25, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches new update to mobile app
Ryanair launches new update to mobile app
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 150 words
Highlight: Ryanair, an Irish airline headquartered in Swords, Dublin, Ireland, has launched the new update to its 
mobile app.
Body
The latest version of the Ryanair app, which is available to download in both iPhone and Android formats, includes: 
Improved airport search function; Improved ancillary design; Easier payment process; Boarding pass download on 
login; and Improved Non EU & special assistance customer information. Ryanair's app, which has been 
downloaded over 6.5m times, is available in English, Italian, Polish, Dutch, German, French and Spanish, with 
further language versions to follow, and is free from the iTunes App Store and the Google Play Store or from 
Ryanair.com. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "The response to our app has been hugely positive, with over 6.5m 
downloads to date. Our latest version offers customers a smoother booking, payment and check-in process and an 
improved design. We are working hard to continue to improve our app with further updates that will make it an even 
more useful travel tool."
Load-Date: January 25, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair appoints marketing operations director
Ryanair appoints marketing operations director
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 145 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced the appointment of Matthias Wenk as marketing operations director, where he 
will oversee all advertising, brand communications and sales & marketing functions.
Body
A Swiss native, Matthias will join Ryanair on Monday, 18th January, having spent 10 years at Lidl Ireland, where he 
previously worked as Associate Marketing Director and Head of Advertising. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, 
Kenny Jacobs said: "I am pleased to welcome Matthias Wenk to the marketing team, where he will take the new 
role of Marketing Operations Director, overseeing our advertising, brand communications and sales and marketing 
activities, as we continue to grow traffic, destinations and routes across Europe." Ryanair's Marketing Operations 
Director, Matthias Wenk said: "I am delighted to join the marketing team behind Europe's most successful airline, 
after 10 years with the low cost leader in grocery retail. I cannot wait to help develop the next phase of Ryanair's 
"Always Getting Better" plan and to keep driving the brand forward and upward."
Load-Date: January 25, 2016
End of Document
Monex gets on board with Ryanair
Monex gets on board with Ryanair
Sunday Business Post
January 17, 2016
Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 270 words
Byline: Roisin Burke
Highlight: Company will provide software to improve customer experience
Body
Kerry fintech company Monex is helping with Ryanair's revamp of its online reservation system as part of its 
ongoing charm offensive to win customers. 
Ryanair has been working to create a better experience for its website users that is more similar to online retail 
websites, and Monex will provide software systems that help provide a more secure and fast service for customers 
when paying for their bookings. 
A 'My Ryanair' feature for customers will allow them to securely hold their details for repeat reservations making for 
quicker and easier booking, with Monex providing the system behind it. 
"Ryanair continues to innovate in many different and compelling ways for consumers," Brian Kiely, Monex IT 
director said. 
"Ryanair is continuously engaging in "customer first" technology developments, and by using Monex's secure 
technology solutions, we have been able to simplify the customer engagement process on our website, the largest 
travel website in Europe." said Ryanair's chief technology officer, John Hurley. 
"Monex has collaborated extensively with us on many such initiatives," Hurley said. 
From its headquarters in Killarney, Monex provides rapid currency conversion services for companies and at ATMs 
all over the world, allowing users to access the currency of their choice within seconds. 
The $32 billion transaction company was founded by Frank Murphy, who invented the rapidfire currency exchange 
solution behind money's Dynamic Currency Conversion service. 
With profits in the region of (EURO)7.6 million, Monex's services are available in over 65,000 ATMs around the 
world in more than 46 countries.
Monex gets on board with Ryanair
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Prepay power.ie profits surging ahead
Prepay power.ie profits surging ahead
Sunday Business Post
January 17, 2016
Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 301 words
Byline: Leanna Byrne
Highlight: Profits jumped from (EURO)1.9 million to (EURO)4.4 million
Body
Profits at pay-as-you-go electricity supplier Prepay power.ie more than doubled after the company increased 
revenues and customer numbers. 
The company, headed by dotcom millionaire Andrew Collins, posted turnover of (EURO)78.4 million for 2014, up 
from (EURO)39 million for the year before, according to accounts filed in recent days. 
Pre-tax profits jumped from (EURO)1.9 million to (EURO)4.4 million. 
Established in 2009, Prepaypower.ie employs 49 staff and supplies electricity to more than 300,000 people in 
Ireland and the North through its pre-pay meter system. 
In its financial statements, the company said it was focusing on growing its customer numbers further. 
It has raised over (EURO)20 million from investors through a combination of loans and equity. It is backed by a 
string of blue-chip investors including Michael Cawley, the former deputy chief executive of Ryanair, former 
Superquinn supremo Feargal Quinn and millionaire financier Ulric Kenny. Collins retains a major stake in the 
company. 
In its directors' report, the company said some of its risks included volatile electricity prices and a highly regulated 
industry. 
It said it had implemented a hedging strategy to mitigate these risks. 
Collins, who co-founded 123.ie with the businessman Derek Richardson, made his first fortune when he sold his 
stake in Needahotel.com to private equity group Cendant for (EURO)60 million in 2005. 
Prepay power.ie profits surging ahead
Online insurer 123.ie was sold to British insurance company Royal Sun Alliance in 2010 for over (EURO)80 million. 
Collins reportedly cleared approximately (EURO)20 million from the sale of his 30 per cent stake. 
The energy sector employs 47,600 people and contributes (EURO)725 million in tax revenue and (EURO)5.4 billion 
to the island's economy, according to the Electricity Association of Ireland.
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair welcomes UK travel website investigation Ryanair welcome...
Ryanair welcomes UK travel website investigation; Ryanair welcome...
Business World (Digest)
January 14, 2016 Thursday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Highlight: Ryanair has welcomed the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) investigation into websites, eDreams and 
Opodo, which, it claims, is continuing to mislead consumers by advertising non-existent Ryanair fares via the 
eDreams and Opodo websites and Google paid se
Body
Ryanair has welcomed the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) investigation into websites, eDreams and Opodo, 
which, it claims, is continuing to mislead consumers by advertising non-existent Ryanair fares via the eDreams and 
Opodo websites and Google paid search adverts.
The airline argues that the website eDreams has been allowed by Google to use the misleading subdomain 
"www.Ryanair.eDreams.com", and a copycat website with identical Ryanair branding, in order to deceive 
consumers into visiting the eDreams website, and booking with eDreams at inflated fares.
Ryanair launched High Court proceedings against both eDreams and Google last December, in an effort to stop 
them allegedly misleading consumers by advertising false Ryanair fares.
The CAA is currently investigating the "website and pricing practices" of a number of websites "concerning price 
transparency" and said it would continue to monitor such websites "to ensure that consumers are not misled and 
have access to comparable information on prices". Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "We are 
continuing to receive complaints from customers on a daily basis who have mistakenly booked with eDreams, as 
well as with Opodo, as both websites continue to engage in anti-consumer practices, and we welcome this CAA 
investigation into the pricing and practices of these screenscraper websites." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 19, 2016
End of Document
Wow Air To Offer $199 Flights From US To Europe
Wow Air To Offer $199 Flights From US To Europe
International Business Times News
January 13, 2016 Wednesday 4:27 PM EST
Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 469 words
Byline: Tim Marcin
Body
Jan 13, 2016( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Getting 
from the West Coast to Europe is about to become[1] much easier and cheaper. Starting in June, Wow Air, a low-
cost Icelandic carrier, will offer flights from San Francisco and Los Angeles to European cities, according to Forbes 
Magazine[2] Tuesday.<nl/> Wow Air already began offering last year $99 flights to Europe from the East Coast, 
with the flights connecting though Iceland's capital city, Reykjavik. Now, they're expanding to the other coast, with 
the higher, but still relatively cheap, $199 price tag, the company's CEO said.<nl/> CEO Skúli Mogensen said no-
frills, low cost carriers like the United States' Southwest and Europe's Ryanair have been successful and profitable 
on a local level. Wow is aiming to use that model for longer flights.<nl/> <nl/> Now you can WOW your way 
between California Iceland from only $99!#10;
https://t.co/VaJjNMuqwS[3] 
pic.twitter.com/VX0digguDv[4]<nl/> 
- 
WOW 
air 
(@wow_air) 
January 
12, 
2016[5]<nl/><nl/> 'We are really pioneering the low-cost model on long-haul flights,' Mogensen said to Forbes. 'No 
one has done it with transatlantic flights.'<nl/> Wow is expected to offer five flights weekly to Reykjavic from San 
Francisco and four from Los Angeles starting June 9. The flights are expected to offer 21 European destinations 
including Amsterdam, Berlin, London, and Paris. <nl/> Passengers on the flights will have to give up some of the 
finer things about travel, such as extra legroom, free baggage, food or movies. Those sorts of upgrades will cost a 
bit extra. Mogensen said passengers should expect to pay an extra 20 percent for those sorts of amenities. <nl/> 
"You only pay for what you use," he said to Forbes. "If you travel light, there are no extras."<nl/> A number of 
airlines have moved toward offering cheap flights from the U.S. to Europe. Norwegian Air said[6] last October it 
hoped to offer $69 tickets to Europe from the East Coast as early as 2017. Ryanair made waves by saying last year 
it hoped[7] to one day offer $15 tickets to Europe by 2020, with the actual price far higher after fees.<nl/> [ 1]:            
http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/01/12/wow-air-to-offer-199-flights-to-europe-from-sfo-lax/ [ 2]:            
http://www.forbes.com/sites/miguelhelft/2016/01/12/former-tech-execs-new-offering-199-flights-to-europe-from-lax-
and-sfo/#2715e4857a0b35ed5d6d5f94 [ 3]:            https://t.co/VaJjNMuqwS [ 4]:            https://t.co/VX0digguDv [ 5]:       
     https://twitter.com/wow_air/status/686920061492301825 [ 6]:            http://www.ibtimes.com/cheap-flights-us-
europe-norwegian-air-planning-69-tickets-ceo-says-2130753 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://money.cnn.com/2015/03/17/news/companies/ryanair-transatlantic-flights/ 
Load-Date: January 13, 2016
Wow Air To Offer $199 Flights From US To Europe
End of Document
Ryanair and easyJet eye tie-ups with big rivals; Budget airlines are considering deals to provide feeder traffic 
for European flag carriers' long-haul flights
Ryanair and easyJet eye tie-ups with big rivals; Budget airlines are 
considering deals to provide feeder traffic for European flag carriers' long-
haul flights
Financial Times (London, England)
January 13, 2016 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 1322 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
European passengers flying long haul to the US or further afield could soon find themselves travelling part of the 
way on a low-cost airline should Michael O'Leary , Ryanair's chief executive, get his way.
Europe's biggest budget airline by revenue has signalled a major shift in strategy by targeting tie-ups with flag 
carriers under which it would provide them with passengers for their long-haul flights. EasyJet is considering a 
similar move.
This could see Ryanair and easyJet partner with British Airways or Lufthansa, with passengers initially flying on the 
budget airlines' short-haul jets and then transferring on to the flag carriers' long-range aircraft. Through a single 
transaction with one airline, someone wishing to go from Lyons to New York might in the future fly from the French 
city to London's Heathrow airport with easyJet, and then switch smoothly to BA to travel to the US.
It would be a remarkable turn of events - for the past two decades, Ryanair, easyJet and other budget airlines have 
engaged in cut-throat competition with flag carriers on European short-haul routes. The likes of BA, Air France and 
Lufthansa have ceded as much as 40 per cent of the European short-haul market to low-cost carriers offering 
cheap fares.
Ryanair and easyJet eye tie-ups with big rivals; Budget airlines are considering deals to provide feeder traffic 
for European flag carriers' long-haul flights
Furthermore, the willingness of easyJet and Ryanair to countenance partnerships with flag carriers represents a big 
change for the budget airlines, which have traditionally shunned the idea of providing so-called feeder traffic to 
other carriers, owing to the costs and complexity.
But as Ryanair and easyJet search for further growth in an increasingly mature European market, many industry 
insiders believe that budget airlines will become feeders for flag carriers' long-haul routes.
"They all say, 'No we would never have Ryanair feed us,' but in the end they will, simply because we can deliver 
feed into them at EUR45 a seat, whereas currently they do it themselves at EUR150 a seat and are losing money 
hand over fist," says Mr O'Leary. Ryanair's average fare was EUR56 in the six months to September 30.
The advantage for flag carriers would partly be that, by taking feeder traffic from low-cost airlines, they could more 
easily fill their long-haul aircraft, and therefore ensure some marginal routes are profitable.
Just as importantly, the arrangements would enable the likes of Air France to axe some of their lossmaking short-
haul routes, where they struggle to compete with easyJet and Ryanair because of higher operating costs.
In recent years, easyJet and Ryanair have increased the pressure on flag carriers by wooing business passengers 
with flights to key European hubs such as Charles de Gaulle in Paris and Rome's Fiumicino. EasyJet has even 
expressed an interest in flying to Heathrow.
Chris Tarry of Aviation Industry Research and Advisory says that low-cost airlines realise that offering feeder traffic 
to flag carriers is an opportunity for them. "As their own networks get more extensive then the opportunity for them 
to take passengers to and from another airline's network increases as well," he adds.
However, several obstacles stand in the way of budget airlines acting as feeders to European flag carriers.
The biggest hurdle to date has been agreeing which company, the budget airline or the flag carrier, would be liable 
if flights were delayed and connections missed.
Mr O'Leary is adamant that Ryanair would not be responsible for any missed connections or baggage - an issue 
that has already led to the ending of negotiations between the company and Aer Lingus and Virgin Atlantic. Ryanair 
is still in discussions with Portugal's TAP and Norwegian Air Shuttle, which offers cheap transatlantic flights.
Under Ryanair's feeder proposals, customers would be able to buy their tickets for the two flights - one with the 
budget airline, the second with the flag carrier - in one transaction from the company operating the long-haul flight. 
This company would be responsible for looking after their bags and taking responsibility for missed connections.
Analysts say there are other matters that could hinder discussions between budget airlines and flag carriers. For 
example, John Strickland, analyst at JLS Consulting, says the proposed sharing of revenue between the two sides 
would be a critical part of negotiations.
Another issue that would need to be resolved is improving services at airports, to ensure that passengers 
transferring from a short-haul to a long-haul flight would not have to go through immigration again, and that 
baggage was moved between aircraft remotely.
Will Horton, analyst at the Centre for Aviation, agrees. "Lufthansa and others are clearly seeking a solution to lower 
their costs, but is the price point that works for them also favourable to low-cost carriers?" he asks.
"Is it worthwhile to take on complexity, cost and potentially some loss of agility?"
Carolyn McCall , easyJet's chief executive, admits that no one has yet been able to show how low-cost airlines can 
provide feeder traffic to flag carriers "simply and easily and make money at the end of it".
Moreover, some analysts believe that feeder partnerships are not crucial for either Ryanair or easyJet's growth.
Ryanair and easyJet eye tie-ups with big rivals; Budget airlines are considering deals to provide feeder traffic 
for European flag carriers' long-haul flights
Oliver Sleath, analyst at Barclays, says that in the European short-haul market, 85 per cent of passengers are flying 
point-to-point, ie people starting and ending their journeys within the EU, while just 15 per cent are travellers 
connecting to long-haul aircraft.
"Low-cost carriers have taken about 35-40 per cent of the overall market so they could double in size doing just 
what they do in the point to point market without needing to worry about entering the feeder market," he adds.
Deals between budget airlines and flag carriers such as Lufthansa and Air France are unlikely to happen in the 
short term because both are engaged in highly sensitive union negotiations over current cost-cutting initiatives.
But some industry insiders believe agreements could be made with smaller airlines. Mr O'Leary says flagship 
carriers need to "stop messing around and trying to be low-fares airlines" when they can just work with Ryanair or 
easyJet. "It just becomes the logical thing for them to do," he adds.
Small destinations
Big differences in US and European approaches
The business models of easyJet and Ryanair owe much to Herb Kelleher , the Texan entrepreneur who co-founded 
Southwest Airlines, a US budget outfit, in 1967.
But European low-cost carriers' growing interest in providing feeder traffic for long-haul airlines highlights big 
differences between aspects of EU and US aviation.
While Europe's flag carriers are increasingly retreating from short-haul flights, budget airlines in the US continue to 
compete head to head with more established rivals on many routes.
For US low-cost carriers providing feeder traffic "presents certain problems", according to George Hamlin, head of 
Hamlin Transportation Consulting, a consultancy. "My sense is they aren't interested at this point."
An exception to the rule is JetBlue, which has code-sharing arrangements with Dubai's Emirates Airline and Abu 
Dhabi's Etihad Airways, to carry long-haul passengers on from the big international hubs to smaller US destinations 
using its short-haul fleet.
JetBlue is different from many other smaller US airlines in that it has an extensive nationwide network - and a 
strong position at John F Kennedy airport in New York.
SouthWest, in contrast, says its domestic reservation system would be incapable of handling through bookings with 
other airlines.
Instead the pioneering low-cost airline has focused on developing its own network. "We could consider this strategy 
in the future, but nothing in the immediate future," the company says.
Frontier Airlines, based in Denver, is more emphatic. As an "ultra-low cost" carrier, its goal is to be able to charge 
passengers as little as possible, it says.
"Those types of agreements don't fit with our business model." Robert Wright
Load-Date: January 12, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches new service from London Gatwick to Belfast International
Ryanair launches new service from London Gatwick to Belfast International
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 12, 2016 Tuesday 4:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 218 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched a new service from London Gatwick to Belfast International, which will operate 
four times daily from March 2016, as part of its Summer 2016 schedule.
Body
In addition, Ryanair will increase its London Gatwick to Dublin service to 7 times daily from March, offering 18 daily 
return services in total between London and Dublin including Stansted (8 daily) and Luton (3 daily), making Ryanair 
the ideal choice for both business and leisure customers, on Europe's busiest route. Ryanair's London Gatwick 
Summer 2016 schedule will deliver: one New route to Belfast International (4 daily); More flights to Dublin (5 to 7 
daily); 6 routes in total; 1.6m customers p.a. (60% growth); and 1,200 "on-site" jobs p.a. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: 
"We are pleased to announce a new service from London Gatwick to Belfast International (our 77th base and 
newest airport), which will operate 4 times daily from March, and more flights to Dublin, as part of our expanded 
Summer 2016 schedule. 
With more routes, frequencies, improved schedules and the same great low fares, it's easy to see why millions of 
UK customers choose to fly Ryanair. "To celebrate our new route to Belfast and extra flights to Dublin, we are 
releasing seats for sale from just £14.99 for travel in March, April and May, which are available for booking until 
midnight Monday (11 Jan). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto 
www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: January 18, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair to open new base at Belfast International Airport in March 2016
Ryanair to open new base at Belfast International Airport in March 2016
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 12, 2016 Tuesday 4:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 426 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced that it will open a new base at Belfast International Airport, starting in March 
2016, with one based aircraft, and a four times daily service to London Gatwick.
Body
The base will grow to 3 aircraft and 5 more new routes from October 2016, which will deliver over 1m new 
customers p.a. and support 750 "on-site" jobs at Belfast International Airport. From March 2016, Ryanair will open a 
base in Belfast Intl. and deliver:3 based aircraft ($300m); new route: London Gatwick (4 x daily); 5 more new routes 
to follow in Oct. 
2016; 28 weekly flights; Over 1m customers p.a.; and 750* "on site" jobs p.a. In Belfast, Ryanair's David O'Brien 
said: "Ryanair is pleased to open a new base at Belfast International Airport from March, as we invest $300m, in 3 
based aircraft, and a high frequency daily route to London Gatwick, and 5 other new routes from October 2016, 
which will deliver over 1m customers p.a. at Belfast International Airport and support 750 jobs. "Our 4 x daily Belfast 
- Gatwick service will be ideal for both business and leisure customers and we look forward to growing routes, 
traffic, jobs and tourism in Belfast in the coming months and years. Our customers can look forward to further 
improvements in the coming months, including our personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 
real customer destination reviews, under our "Always Getting Better" programme, as we continue to offer so much 
more than just the lowest fares. "To celebrate our new Belfast International base we are releasing over 100,000 
seats on sale at prices from just GBP9.99 for travel in March, April and May, which must be booked by Monday (11 
Jan). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and 
avoid missing out." Graham Keddie, MD of Belfast International Airport, said: "This is a significant and far-reaching 
announcement by Ryanair. The Gatwick slots given up by Aer Lingus as part of the IAG takeover, are being 
safeguarded and used for the benefit of Northern Ireland. Gatwick is growing in popularity, and it was crucial to 
retain them. "In addition, the promise of three based aircraft and 5 more new routes to be announced later in the 
year increases Northern Ireland's 'reach' and gives Belfast International a competitive edge. This very positive news 
is the equivalent of a major inward investment without the strain on public finances. It will deliver thousands of new 
visitors and hundreds of welcome new jobs. Despite the damaging Air Passenger Duty (APD), this announcement 
Ryanair to open new base at Belfast International Airport in March 2016
shows Belfast International can defy the odds. Just imagine what we could achieve if the 'yoke' of APD were 
removed (as it has been in the Republic of Ireland)?"
Load-Date: January 18, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair appoints new head of public affairs
Ryanair appoints new head of public affairs
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 12, 2016 Tuesday 3:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 151 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced the appointment of Cristian Samoilovich as its first head of public affairs, joining 
Ryanair from Uber, where he was managing European public policy.
Body
Cristian brings experience in government relations having previously worked for Boeing and Airbus, and will lead 
Ryanair's public affairs engagements with EU institutions and European governments. Ryanair's Chief Legal & 
Regulatory Officer, Juliusz Komorek said: "We are pleased to appoint Cristian Samoilovich as our first Head of 
Public Affairs. His extensive experience and knowledge will be a key asset to Ryanair, as we continue to work with 
the EU to increase the competitiveness of the European air transport industry, to the benefit of consumers." 
Ryanair's Head of Public Affairs, Cristian Samoilovich said: "I am delighted to be appointed Head of Public Affairs 
for Ryanair, Europe's largest airline. These are exciting times for Ryanair with plans for extensive growth and I look 
forward to working closely with the EU and European governments to deliver even more choice and low fares to 
consumers."
Load-Date: January 18, 2016
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
January 10, 2016
Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 570 words
Byline: Emma Kennedy and Fearghal O'Connor
Body
CRH's (EURO)1 billion disposal
Building materials company CRH made a series of divestments and acquisitions last year. 
In a statement published late last week, the company said it had disposed of (EURO)1 billion worth of its assets in 
2015. 
The group also made 20 bolt-on acquisitions and investments last year. 
These deals, together with the acquisition of assets from building materials company Lafarge and Holcim, and net 
deferred consideration payments, bring development spend for 2015 to approximately (EURO)8 billion, according to 
the CRH statement. 
"Portfolio management, and in particular the reallocation of capital from lower growth areas into core businesses for 
growth, is a cornerstone of our value creation model," said CRH chief executive Albert Manifold. 
Permanent TSB's new mortgage offer
Competition in the mortgage market is likely to heat up in the coming months, with news of a new offer from 
Permanent TSB. 
The bank looks set to match Bank of Ireland's 2 per cent cashback offer for new mortgage business. 
Davy said that the move "suggests further competition in a market where volumes remain well below sustainable 
levels". 
According to Goodbody, the move is a response to Permanent TSB's "own weakening market share in 2015". 
Boardroom Briefing
Busy week for Ryanair
Ryanair has announced that it will open a new base at Belfast International Airport with an investment of $300 
million in aircraft. 
The airline said its plan would deliver more than a million new customers a year and support 750 on-site jobs at 
Belfast International Airport. 
Also, as predicted previously on these pages, Ryanair announced that its rolling annual traffic had broken the 100 
million passenger barrier. Rolling annual traffic rose by 17 per cent in 2015, with the airline carrying a total of 101.4 
million passengers last year. 
Cpl Recruitment flags results date
Recruitment company Cpl Resources has signalled that it will publish its results for the half year to December 31 
later this month. 
The company notified shareholders that its latest half year results will be released on Thursday January 28. 
Last November, the recruitment group said it would create 200 jobs across its branch network in the next two years. 
Analysts back Dalata for growth
The value of hotel sales in Ireland was more than (EURO)1 billion in 2015, according to property firm Savills 
Ireland. 
Commentary from Investec on the hotel sales data pointed to another strong year ahead for hotel group Dalata. 
"Significant sales noted by Savills included Dalata's purchase of Moran Bewley's Hotels in addition to the Clarion in 
Cork and Clayton Hotel in Galway," Investec noted. 
"With circa (EURO)200 million in capital remaining to allocate, we believe Dalata is well positioned to further 
expand its portfolio, backed by the healthy demand/supply nature of the Irish hotel market." 
Last month, Dalata agreed to buy the Tara Towers Hotel in Dublin for (EURO)13.155 million in cash, with the 
acquisition due to be completed this month. 
The week ahead
Grafton Group, which last week announced the acquisition of T Brewer & Co, a London-based specialist timber 
business for an undisclosed sum, will publish a trading update on Tuesday. 
Wednesday will bring a trading statement and operational update from Tullow Oil, while Thursday will see 
Associated British Foods (ABF), the British sugar and ingredient company that also owns retailer Primark, publish a 
trading update.
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
January 8, 2016 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 434 words
Body
FINANCIAL TIMES SHELL TO SECURE INVESTOR OK FOR BG TAKEOVER Royal Dutch Shell's £36bn bid for 
rival BG Group is poised to win the support of most of the Anglo-Dutch oil giant's shareholders, paving the way for 
its completion despite a collapse in crude that has stoked fears the company is paying too much. Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS), a proxy advisory body, is expected to recommend that investors support the deal, 
according to people familiar with the situation. ISS declined to comment.
WEST SUSSEX ANNOUNCES PLANS FOR SCIENCE HUB West Sussex county council has announced plans to 
build a "centre of excellence" for European health and life sciences on a disused pharmaceutical company's site. 
The centre will be at the former Novartis campus in Horsham.
THE TIMES NAKED AMBITION PUTS WINE RETAILER BACK ON TRACK Shares in Majestic Wine rose by 
almost 10 per cent after the drinks retailer reported a bounce back in sales over the Christmas period. Total sales 
over the period rose by 42.6 per cent thanks to the £70m acquisition last spring of Naked Wines, the online retailer.
RIVALS IN SLIPSTREAM AS RYANAIR CARRIES 101M Ryanair has become the first airline to carry 100m 
international passengers in a year after attempting to shed its penny-pinching image. Figures published yesterday 
indicated that Ryanair's traffic soared by nearly a fifth in 12 months.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH AIRBUS' DELIVERY NUMBERS Boeing looks almost certain to have beaten Airbus in 
this year's battle for the title of the world's biggest plane maker. The aircraft manufacturer's Seattle factories 
delivered a record 762 airliners in 2015, up 39 on 2014 - the previous alltime high - about 150 more than its rival.
FASHION SITE ATTERLEY FALLS INTO ADMINISTRATION Atterley, the fashion website backed by former Tesco 
boss Sir Terry Leahy, has collapsed into administration. Parent company Maison Seven Limited was placed into 
administration on 5 January following an order at the High Court.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL PANASONIC WILL BET BIG ON GIGAFACTORY Panasonic president Kazuhiro 
Tsuga said the company will spend up to $1.6bn (£1.1bn) on an advanced battery factory in Nevada with electric-
car maker Tesla Motors , an investment it hopes to cement its future in automotive electronics.
ALCOA TO CLOSE INDIANA PLANT AND IDLE TEXAS ONE Alcoa plans to close one of the country's biggest 
aluminium smelters in Indiana and idle production at a plant in Texas, resulting in the loss of 1,270 jobs. This will be 
another painful hit for the metals industry. The steel industry also went through thousands of layoffs last year.
Load-Date: January 8, 2016
End of Document
BEST OF TWITTER
BEST OF TWITTER
City A.M.
January 8, 2016 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 133 words
Body
Mexico's supposedly successful sugary drinks tax reduced average energy consumption by just 16 calories a day.
@cjsnowdon ORB EU ref online poll has Leave 7 per cent ahead. Remain 36 per cent, Leave 43 per cent, DK 21 
per cent. This is the biggest Leave lead since General Election 2015 from any pollster. @MSmithsonPB Stratfor on 
Greece: Risk of Grexit or default will be lower in 2016; but threat of social unrest and political volatility will loom 
large. @GreekAnalyst The China financial crisis of 2016 is partly a reflection of the mighty US dollar. 
@notayesmansecon Ryanair to open new base at Belfast International Airport... but what about Brexit uncertainty? 
@minefornothing Glad to see Marc Bolland is stepping down from M&S. He's proved ineffective as anything other 
than a grocer.
@DrGABaines
Load-Date: January 8, 2016
End of Document
Bordeaux Airport had Nearly 5,300,000 passengers in 2015 and a growth of +7.6%
Bordeaux Airport had Nearly 5,300,000 passengers in 2015 and a growth of 
+7.6%
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
January 07, 2016
Copyright 2016 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 419 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Marked by the symbolic milestone of 5 million 
passengers, which was reached for the first time in early December, Bordeaux has risen to top position in terms of 
growth among major regional French airports: + 7.6%. International flights were the driving force behind this record 
growth, with the opening of new routes this year, in keeping with the strong developments that have taken place 
since 2009. Along with direct routes, major international hubs represented over one million passengers, it was a 
record year for Bordeaux Airport, the international airport of this beautiful French South West Region. Since 2009, 
Bordeaux Airportâ€™s international traffic has doubled. 4 destinations have clearly risen to the top terms of the 
number of passengers: - London (British Airways, EasyJet et Ryanair) which serve 3 airports (Gatwick, Stansted 
and Luton), with 410,544 passengers, for growth of +6% compared to 2014 - Amsterdam (KLM, EasyJet) with 
nearly 294,600 passengers, for +24% - Lisbon (TAP Portugal) with 123,269 passengers and +18.4% - Geneva 
(EasyJet) with 194,650 passengers, an increase of +5.2% - Basel (EasyJet) with 116,500 passengers and a growth 
of +5.1%. Domestic traffic showed growth of +2.3%, growth that has slowed since the events in Paris in mid-
November. 
A notable highlight is the good results in service towards Paris, particularly the Charles de Gaulle hub with growth of 
+8.2%, or 632,000 passengers. Low-cost airlines generated growth of 65% in 2015 with 375,000 more passengers 
than in 2014. Three operators contributed greatly to this strong growth: EasyJet (12% with 162,204 more 
passengers than in 2014), Volotea (23% with 65,052 more passengers than in 2014) and Vueling (12% with 31,973 
more passengers). Legacy carriers accounted for 81,172 more passengers than in 2014. Air France/KLM (56%, 
with 82,113 more passengers than in 2014), Turkish Airlines (25% with 36,997 passengers) and Aegean Airlines 
(13% with 18,547 passengers) contributed to this growth. Along with traffic, aircraft movements increased more 
moderately: +4.5%.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2016 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Bordeaux Airport had Nearly 5,300,000 passengers in 2015 and a growth of +7.6%
Load-Date: January 26, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches Leeds Bradford Summer 2016 schedule
Ryanair launches Leeds Bradford Summer 2016 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 7, 2016 Thursday 4:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 282 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its Leeds Bradford Summer 2016 schedule with 20 routes including Lanzarote, 
Malaga and Venice and more flights on four routes, which will support 750 on-site jobs at Leeds Bradford Airport.
Body
Ryanair's Leeds Bradford Summer 2016 schedule will deliver: More flights to Alicante (6 weekly), Gdansk (4 
weekly), Palma (1 daily) & Pisa (2 weekly); 20 routes in total; and 73 weekly flights. Ryanair's Sales & Marketing 
Executive for the UK & Ireland, Lisa Buckley said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Leeds Bradford Summer 2016 
schedule, with 20 routes in total and more flights on 4 routes, which will deliver 1m customers p.a. and support 750 
"on-site" jobs at Leeds Bradford Airport. "Our customers can look forward to further improvements in the coming 
months, including our personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and real 
customer destination reviews, under our "Always Getting Better" programme, as we continue to offer so much more 
than just lowest fares. "To celebrate the launch of our Leeds Bradford Summer 2016 schedule, we are releasing 
100,000 seats for sale across our European network at fares starting from just GBP19.99, which are available for 
booking until midnight Monday (14 Dec). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers 
should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out." 
Tony Hallwood, Leeds Bradford Airport's Aviation Development Director said: "The increase in flight frequencies 
planned by Ryanair for summer 2016 are welcomed to reflect increased demand for flights from Leeds Bradford. 
With earlier start dates and additional peak season capacity on a number of routes there is now additional choice 
for both leisure and business travellers. With an enhanced range of customer service improvements now on offer by 
Ryanair, there has never been a better time to fly from Leeds Bradford."
Load-Date: January 13, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair becomes first airline to carry 100m international customers in a year Ryanair becomes...
Ryanair becomes first airline to carry 100m international customers in a 
year; Ryanair becomes...
Business World (Digest)
January 7, 2016 Thursday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 104 words
Highlight: It was announced today that Ryanair has become the first airline to carry 100m international customers 
in a year, after December traffic grew 25% to 7.5m customers.
Body
It was announced today that Ryanair has become the first airline to carry 100m international customers in a year, 
after December traffic grew 25% to 7.5m customers.
Furthermore, rolling annual traffic to December grew 17% to 101.4m customers.
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said, "On the back of lower fares in December (following the terrorist events in Paris and 
Brussels), Ryanair's monthly traffic grew by 25% to 7.5m customers, while our load factor jumped 3% points to 
91%.
"Our traffic growth over the past two years has been remarkable, rising by 50% over our December 2013 traffic 
figure of 5.0m." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 12, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair A PR first
Ryanair; A PR first
Financial Times (London, England)
January 7, 2016 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 114 words
Byline: FastFT
Body
Ryanair really is growing up. A charm offensive launched in the wake of two profit warnings in 2013 has led to a 
number of changes at the low-cost airline, including the reduction or removal of hated fees and a more flexible 
baggage policy. Now the Irish carrier has recruited its first head of public affairs, Cristian Samoilovich , who will 
work on relations with European governments and institutions.
Mr Samoilovich joins from Uber, the taxi app company that has had its fair share of regulatory run-ins in Europe. He 
was managing European public policy at Uber, according to a statement announcing his appointment. Mr 
Samoilovich has also previously worked at Boeing and Airbus. FastFT
Load-Date: January 6, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches East Midlands Summer 2016 schedule
Ryanair launches East Midlands Summer 2016 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 7, 2016 Thursday 5:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 127 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its East Midlands Summer 2016 schedule with 35 routes including Berlin, Chania, 
Lanzarote and Malaga and more flights on three routes, which will support 1,700 on-site jobs at East Midlands 
Airport.
Body
Ryanair's East Midlands Summer 2016 schedule will deliver: More flights to Corfu (2 weekly), Dublin (2 daily) & 
Krakow (3 weekly); and 177 weekly flights. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our East 
Midlands Summer 2016 schedule, with 35 routes in total and more flights on 3 routes, which will deliver 2.3m 
customers p.a. and support 1,700 "on-site" jobs at East Midlands Airport. "To celebrate the launch of our East 
Midlands Summer 2016 schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our European network at fares 
starting from just GBP19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Monday (14 Dec). Since these amazing 
low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: January 13, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches Bournemouth Summer 2016 schedule
Ryanair launches Bournemouth Summer 2016 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 7, 2016 Thursday 6:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 172 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its Bournemouth Summer 2016 schedule with nine routes including Alicante, 
Malaga and Malta and more flights to Faro, which will support 320 on-site jobs at Bournemouth Airport.
Body
Ryanair's Bournemouth Summer 2016 schedule will deliver: More flights to Faro (5 weekly); and 34 weekly flights. 
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Bournemouth Summer 2016 schedule, with 9 routes in 
total and more flights to Faro, which will deliver 430,000 customers p.a. and support 320 "on-site" jobs at 
Bournemouth Airport. Our customers can look forward to further improvements in the coming months, including our 
personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and real customer destination 
reviews, under our "Always Getting Better" programme, as we continue to offer so much more than just lowest 
fares. "To celebrate the launch of our Bournemouth Summer 2016 schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for 
sale across our European network at fares starting from just GBP19.99, which are available for booking until 
midnight Monday (14 Dec). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto 
www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: January 13, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair set to continue passenger growth trend
Ryanair set to continue passenger growth trend
Sunday Business Post
January 3, 2016
Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 104 words
Byline: Emma Kennedy and Fearghal O'Connor
Highlight: Airline carried 900,000 more passengers this Christmas
Body
This newspaper reported at the end of November that Ryanair was "tantalisingly close" to rolling annual traffic of 
100 million passengers. On December 3, it announced rolling annual traffic of 99.9 million customers for the year to 
the end of November, a 17 per cent increase. This Thursday, January 7, will bring another traffic update from the 
airline, and will likely see it burst through the 100 million passenger barrier for the first time. 
"Ryanair will carry over five million customers across Europe during the Christmas period - an increase of over 
900,000 seats on 2014." 
Ryanair's Robin Kiely, speaking  in December 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Airlines warn of repercussions over Norway's new flight tax
Airlines warn of repercussions over Norway's new flight tax
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
December 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 421 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Oslo Rygge has warned it may have to close down 
should client airlines follow through with threats to abandon the airport in the face of a looming NOK80 (USD9.07) 
passenger tax which will come into effect from April 1, 2016. As part of its pro-Green policies, Norway's leftwing 
Liberal Party demanded the tax be incorporated into the 2016 budget as a means of dampening demand for air 
travel which is seen a primary pollutant. The tax is expected to raise NOK2 billion (USD226.8 million) for the fiscus 
on an annualized basis. However, airport officials told Norway's Hegnar newspaper that its primary customer 
Ryanair has warned of serious consequences if the Norwegian government enforces the tax even threatening to 
withdraw all four aircraft based at Oslo Rygge while slashing the number of routes served by half. 
Should Ryanair follow through with its threat, the airfield says passenger throughput would plummet from the 
current 1.5 million pax/annum to 500,000 with associated revenues plunging by more than NOK140 million 
(USD15.8 million) thereby forcing it out of business. So grave is the situation that Ryanair's commercial director, 
David O'Brian, along with the LCC's Scandinavian sales manager, Hans JÃ¸rgen ElnÃ¦s, sought an audience with 
finance minister, Siv Jensen, earlier this month to help map out a way forward. Other airfields around the country 
have reported similar threats from airlines. Wizz Air has reportedly warned it would scale back its Oslo Torp 
operations with the reduction of service to Gdansk, Poland and the termination of its Tuzla Int'l, Bosnia & 
Herzegovina, route. Norwegian domestic operator Wideroe has said it would drop its summer routes from Torp to 
BodÃ¸ and Harstad-Narvik airport in the country's north, while SAS Scandinavian Airlines and Norwegian have said 
they would reduce their northern Norwegian operations at airports like Alta and Kirkenes among others. The 
carriers have criticized the proposed tax claiming it would not inhibit pollution as they would simply deploy capacity 
elsewhere across their respective networks.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2015 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: January 19, 2016
Airlines warn of repercussions over Norway's new flight tax
End of Document
Ryanair delivers 70% of all Irish tourism growth in 2015 Ryanair deliver...
Ryanair delivers 70% of all Irish tourism growth in 2015; Ryanair deliver...
Business World (Digest)
December 31, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 162 words
Highlight: Ryanair have this week released their 2015 Irish traffic numbers which show they have delivered 70% of 
all traffic growth at Cork, Dublin, Knock and Shannon airports in 2015, a year of record growth for Irish tourism.
Body
Ryanair have this week released their 2015 Irish traffic numbers which show they have delivered 70% of all traffic 
growth at Cork, Dublin, Knock and Shannon airports in 2015, a year of record growth for Irish tourism.
Traffic growth at Irish airports in 2015 rose by 3.3m to 29.8m and Ryanair delivered 13.1m customers though Irish 
airports (44% of total).
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "Before the various tourism bodies claim undue credit for a record year for Irish tourism, 
Ryanair is pleased to release its 2015 Irish traffic numbers, which show that Ryanair on its own delivered 70% of 
the growth at the main Irish airports this year, thanks to the Government's decision to scrap the air travel tax.
"After 5 years of decline at Irish airports, the welcome repeal of the air travel tax has resulted in record traffic and 
tourism growth, demonstrating to our counterparts in the UK and Germany the enormous economic benefits 
removing APD brings." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 5, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet chief becomes DBE NEW YEAR HONOURS Carolyn McCall
EasyJet chief becomes DBE; NEW YEAR HONOURS; Carolyn McCall
Financial Times (London, England)
December 31, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 195 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
In the five years since she took the top job at budget airline easyJet, Carolyn McCall has gone from being an 
outsider with no aviation experience to one of the most respected chief executives in the industry.
Dame Carolyn, a former chief executive of the Guardian Media Group - once dubbed a "media luvvie" by Ryanair 
chief Michael O'Leary - has been credited with transforming the airline. Under her tenure, it has posted five years of 
record profits and shares have risen from £4 to almost £18.
The decision to make her a DBE for services to the aviation industry cements Dame Carolyn's position within the 
sector, but she also enjoys a prominent position within the wider business community. In July she was appointed to 
David Cameron's business advisory group and has become a strong voice in favour of Britain remaining in the EU.
Throughout her career she has won management and business awards, and in June 2008 was made an OBE for 
services to women in business in the Queen's birthday honours.
Dame Carolyn has been a member of the Royal Academy corporate board for the past three years and in 2014 
joined the Burberry board as a non-executive director. Tanya Powley
Load-Date: December 30, 2015
EasyJet chief becomes DBE NEW YEAR HONOURS Carolyn McCall
End of Document
Ryanair November passenger traffic increases 21%
Ryanair November passenger traffic increases 21%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 30, 2015 Wednesday 2:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 143 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of November 2015 was 7.71 million 
passengers, an increase of 21%, compared to 6.35 million passengers for November 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of November 2015 was 93%, an increase of five percentage points, compared to 88% for 
November 2014. Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's November traffic grew by 21% to 7.71m customers, while 
our load factor jumped 5% points to 93%. These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower 
fares, our stronger forward bookings and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer 
experience programme, which continues to deliver stronger than expected traffic and load factors. "Ryanair 
customers can now look forward to more service enhancements, as we continue Year 2 of our AGB programme, 
which includes our new car hire service, new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms, and 
improved inflight menus, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares in Europe."
Load-Date: January 5, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of 'Buy' by Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of 
'Buy' by Brokerages
Watchlist News
December 28, 2015 Monday 9:54 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 733 words
Byline: Micah Haroldson
Body
Dec 28, 2015( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex) <nl/>            
https://stocktwits.com/widgets/share?via=AnalystRatingsNetwork...y=Ryanair+Holdings+plc+%24NASDAQ%3ARY
AAY+Given+Average+Recommendation+of+%26%238220%3BBuy%26%238221%3B+by+Brokerages 
<nl/><nl/>Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have received an average rating of 'Buy' from the 
sixteen brokerages that are covering the firm, Market Beat.com reports[1]. One analyst has rated the stock with a 
sell rating, seven have assigned a hold rating, seven have assigned a buy rating and one has given a strong buy 
rating to the company. 
The average twelve-month target price among brokerages that have covered the stock in the last year is $86.88. 
<nl/> Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 0.2096% during trading on Monday, reaching 
$87.2525. The company had a trading volume of 88,357 shares. The firm has a market capitalization of $23.02 
billion and a PE ratio of 14.4817. The stock has a 50 day moving average price of $81.63 and a 200 day moving 
average price of $78.46. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $62.53 and a 12 month high of $87.69. <nl/> 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 2nd. The 
company reported $0.99 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $3.30 by 
$2.31. On average, equities research analysts forecast that Ryanair Holdings plc will post $5.15 EPS for the current 
year. <nl/> A number of research analysts recently weighed in on the company. Raymond James raised Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'market perform' rating to an 'outperform' rating in a research note on Tuesday, November 3rd. 
Zacks Investment Research[3] downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
note on Friday, November 20th. Vetr[4] raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'strong-buy' rating and 
set a $90.63 price objective on the stock in a research note on Monday, November 16th. Beaufort Securities 
reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Tuesday, October 6th. Finally, 
TheStreet reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Wednesday, October 
21st.<nl/><nl/> Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[5]) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). 
Ryanair operates a low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, 
the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and Morocco. The Company's principal fleet consists of Boeing 737-800 
aircraft, each having 189 seats. The Company offered over 1,600 short-haul flights per day serving approximately 
190 airports across Europe, and flying approximately 1,600 routes, with a fleet of approximately 315 Boeing 737-
800 aircraft and six additional leased aircraft acquired on short term leases. Ryanair's fleet totaled to 308 Boeing 
737-800s. Ryanair also provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its air 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of 'Buy' by Brokerages
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise.<nl/><nl/>This story was originally published by Watch List News 
(http://www.watchlistnews.com) and is the sole property of Watch List News. If you are reading this article on 
another website, that means this article was illegally copied and re-published to this website in violation of U.S. and 
International 
copyright 
law. 
You 
can 
view 
the 
original 
version 
of 
this 
story 
at 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-nasdaqryaay-given-average-recommendation-of-buy-by-
brokerages/361401/ <nl/><nl/> Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address 
below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and 
related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[6].<nl/> [ 1]:            
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/?MostRecent=1 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            http://www.zacks.com/ [ 4]:            
http://www.vetr.com/ [ 5]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 6]:            
http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: December 28, 2015
End of Document
In the blood
In the blood
Financial Times (London, England)
December 24, 2015 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 354 words
Body
The Irish rule the skies and finance every airliner in them. Well, not quite. But even an Irish storyteller given to 
understatement might find it hard to resist embellishing an aviation history that in effect began in 1919 with the 
crash-landing of John Alcock and Arthur Brown after the first nonstop transatlantic flight.
Ireland's supply of bosses to carriers such as International Airlines Group, Qantas, Ryanair and Aer Lingus is well 
known. For the past four decades it has also been a global centre of the aircraft finance industry. Ireland-based 
groups lease or manage $150bn of airliners, about a fifth of the global fleet. Aviation adds EUR4.1bn to its gross 
domestic product. How did this happen?
First, aviation is in the country's blood. Many of today's experts cut their teeth at Aer Lingus, including Ryanair boss 
Michael O'Leary and IAG's Willie Walsh. But it was Tony Ryan, Ryanair's founder, who started Ireland's leasing 
industry.
Experience gained from subleasing two Aer Lingus planes led him to co-found Guinness Peat Aviation 40 years 
ago. GPA's trajectory proved meteoric, and it was bought by General Electric. Ryan's legacy lives on in the 18 
Dublin-based leasing companies - including SMBC Aviation Capital, part of Sumitomo Mitsui, and Avolon, acquired 
by China's Bohai Leasing - that make up the world's top 20.
Second, Dublin has aircraft finance skills aplenty - even a masters course . Third, government policy supports 
aviation. Low tax is a draw. Lessors expanding their fleets can use capital allowances to cut tax bills. Dublin has 
also negotiated double taxation treaties that take account of aircraft leasing. Nor does the sector pose a threat to 
In the blood
Ireland as its banks have, because the assets are mobile: if an airline flops, the lessor can flip the planes to another 
carrier.
The outlook is bright. Economies in Asia are forecast to add 100m passengers - or one Ryanair - a year, notes 
Avolon. Boeing expects airlines to need 38,000 new aircraft , in the next 20 years. Now for the bad news: there are 
no listed Ireland-based aircraft leasing groups left to invest in. Nice Irish story, though.
Load-Date: December 23, 2015
End of Document
Aircraft manufacturers: let the good times roll
Aircraft manufacturers: let the good times roll
Financial Times (London, England)
December 24, 2015 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 328 words
Body
Those magnificent men in their flying machines. Airbus has landed a $2.3bn order at list price for 10 A330 wide-
body airliners from China Southern Airlines, which operates Asia's biggest fleet. That is almost a bagatelle for the 
Chinese airline, which last week bought $10bn-worth of jets from Boeing, adding 110 planes to its fleet. Embraer of 
Brazil announced plans to upgrade its successful E190 regional jet family. With rising passenger numbers and 
strong demand for aircraft, especially in Asia, aircraft makers have rarely been more upbeat - nor seasoned 
investors' sense of déjà vu so strong.
The airline industry is renowned for slavishly adding to capacity in the good times, only to mothball planes when the 
cycle turns. Investors must hope this time is different. There have been structural changes in the industry. Rising 
demand for affordable air travel in Europe has prompted low-cost carriers, such as easyJet and Ryanair, to keep 
increasing fleet size. Business travellers add to the low-cost crush.
Much of the new demand has come from Asia, though. Even before yesterday's announcement, Airbus expected 
Asia to account for two-fifths of new aircraft deliveries to 2034, with Europe running at half that.
Airbus shares, trading on 18 times next year's earnings, are up to speed with events. Boeing, on 15 times, arguably 
reflects execution problems with wide-body jets. Yet Embraer, on just 13, underplays its strengths.
Industry order books are fat - Airbus has 1,007 orders this year, mostly for its A320 workhorse, Boeing has 577 and 
the much smaller Embraer 530. Bombardier of Canada is missing out on the cheer, with just 70 orders for its delay-
Aircraft manufacturers: let the good times roll
stricken CRJ rival to the Airbus 320 and Boeing 737. The Canadian group approached Airbus, in vain, for a lifeline 
this year.
While fuel costs are low, advanced economies recover and Asia's structural investment case is intact, the 
incumbent duopoly and feisty Embraer should attract passengers of their own.
Load-Date: December 23, 2015
End of Document
Irish health firm plans flotation
Irish health firm plans flotation
Sunday Business Post
December 20, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 273 words
Byline: Róisín Burke
Highlight: Firm's software integrates communication and patient records into one platform
Body
Oneview Healthcare, the Dublin-based health tech firm, is believed to be planning to float shares on the Australian 
stock exchange in early 2016. 
An exploratory roadshow process - advised by Moelis & Co - resulted in positive feedback that's said to have 
motivated the company to consider an IPO. 
Reports in Australia said that an IPO was likely to value the business in the range of several hundred million, 
although the amount raised will be modest.  
Oneview was founded by financial industry entrepreneur Mark McCloskey and is chaired by Ryanair director James 
Osborne. 
The company recently raised (EURO)10 million in a third funding round from its existing investor base, which 
includes Australian funds, Cairn Homes founder Michael Stanley, former KBC boss and Cairn chairman John 
Reynolds and several Oneview executives. McCloskey has a circa 22 per cent stake.  
Oneview's business is mainly in overseas hospitals in the United States, Middle East and Australia, but its R&D and 
software development is carried out in Dublin.  
It provides software systems that integrate everything from patient records to entertainment and communication 
options into one platform for hospitals. In the US the digitisation of records and hospital systems is being driven by 
healthcare requirements under the Obama administration.  
Doctors, nurses and patients can access records and other information at a bedside terminal or on a tablet or 
smartphone or TV. 
Irish health firm plans flotation
Its clients include the Epworth Eastern in Melbourne, the UCSF Medical Centre in San Francisco and 54 hospitals 
in total worldwide.  
Oneview said it could not comment when contacted last Friday.
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Q2 profit increases
Ryanair Q2 profit increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 18, 2015 Friday 5:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair, an airline company, has reported that profit attributable to equity holders of the parent for the 
second quarter ended September 30, 2015 was E1.16 billion, or 85.16 cents per diluted share, compared to E598.2 
million, or 43.09 cents per diluted share, for the same quarter ended September 30, 2014.
Body
Total operating revenues for the second quarter ended September 30, 2015 were E2.39 billion, compared to E2.04 
billion for the same quarter ended September 30, 2014. Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent for the six 
months ended September 30, 2015 was E1.40 billion, or 102.66 cents per diluted share, compared to E795 million, 
or 57.29 cents per diluted share, for the same period ended September 30, 2014. Total operating revenues for the 
six months ended September 30, 2015 were E4.04 billion, compared E3.54 billion for the same quarter ended 
September 30, 2014. Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary, said: "We are pleased to report this strong set of H1 results. 
We have enjoyed a bumper summer due to a very rare confluence of favourable events including stronger sterling, 
adverse weather in northern Europe, reasonably flat industry capacity and further savings on our unhedged fuel, as 
millions of customers switched to Ryanair for our Always Getting Better ("AGB") customer experience programme."
Load-Date: December 24, 2015
End of Document
Dalmac looks for Irish candidates to fill hundreds of positions Dalmac looks fo...
Dalmac looks for Irish candidates to fill hundreds of positions; Dalmac looks 
fo...
Business World (Digest)
December 15, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 122 words
Highlight: The recruitment partner for Ryanair, Dalmac, have today announced they are continuing their major 
European Recruitment Campaign to fill hundreds of Cabin Crew Positions on board Ryanair Aircraft. Successful 
candidates will have the opportunity to work in
Body
The recruitment partner for Ryanair, Dalmac, have today announced they are continuing their major European 
Recruitment Campaign to fill hundreds of Cabin Crew Positions on board Ryanair Aircraft. Successful candidates 
will have the opportunity to work in various Airports across Europe including Ireland.
Dalmac is now seeking new recruits as it holds recruitment days in Ireland. No previous Cabin Crew experience is 
required.
Dalmac's Head of Recruitment, Niall Gleeson says, "We had a fantastic response in 2014 and were extremely 
satisfied with the very high calibre candidates we met in Ireland. We are now returning to fill 100's of positions, this 
is a fantastic opportunity to join a growing industry."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 18, 2015
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
December 14, 2015 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 429 words
Body
FINANCIAL TIMES UK LOOKS AT NUCLEAR OPTION OVER ROLLS-ROYCE Nationalising Rolls-Royce's nuclear 
submarine business, which powers the UK's Trident deterrent, is one option under consideration by the government 
should the crisis at Britain's premier engineering group deepen. David Cameron's office has had plans drawn up to 
protect UK interests as Rolls-Royce seeks to recover from five profit warnings in less than two years. Other 
scenarios include a merger of all or part of Rolls-Royce with BAE Systems.
RETURNS ON PHARMA R&D SINK TO FIVE-YEAR LOW Returns on research and development investment by 
the world's biggest pharmaceuticals companies have declined to their lowest level for at least five years, dashing 
hopes that a recent resurgence in drug approvals signalled an upturn in industry productivity.
THE TIMES PROSECUTORS DRAG RYANAIR INTO TAX PROBE Ryanair's use of the world's leading supplier of 
airline pilots is at the centre of an international investigation into an alleged "especially serious case of tax evasion". 
British police and German investigators have searched the Surrey headquarters of Brookfield Aviation International, 
which was claimed to be supplying half of Ryanair's pilots.
TORONTO IN THE FRAME FOR HSBC RELOCATION HSBC has held talks with Canadian officials about 
relocating its headquarters from London to Toronto. Discussions were held in October with senior directors 
including Douglas Flint.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH AFTER EBOOKS BAN Education giant Pearson faces a crisis in its British universities 
business after it imposed steep price rises on academic libraries. A string of leading universities have stopped 
buying the company's teaching materials in a row over charges for ebooks, The Daily Telegraph has learned.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
SABADELL RULES OUT BUYING MORE BANKS Spanish bank Sabadell does not want to buy any more banks for 
at least another year, shutting down speculation that it was considering buying Clydesdale and Yorkshire Bank, or 
RBS spin-off Williams and Glyn.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL VIVENDI PATIENCE WITH TELECOM ITALIA WEARS THIN French media 
company Vivendi signalled its impatience with top management at Telecom Italia yesterday, as its push to gain 
seats on the Italian telecom's board risks foundering.
RAND PAUL QUALIFIES FOR CNN PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE Nine Republican candidates will spar on the main 
stage in tomorrow's presidential debate on CNN, including Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, who had been in danger of 
being bumped, the network said yesterday. Paul's poll numbers showed he was saved at the 11th hour by showing 
viability in Iowa.
Load-Date: December 14, 2015
End of Document
Security Fears Blight European Tourism, Oil, Economy Offer Relief
Security Fears Blight European Tourism, Oil, Economy Offer Relief
Newstex Blogs
Voice of America
December 14, 2015 Monday 3:40 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 551 words
Body
Dec 14, 2015( Voice of America: http://www.voanews.com Delivered by Newstex) ; Europe's travel industry could 
lose over $1 billion in revenues because of the impact of the Paris attacks, analysts say, though low oil prices and a 
recovering economy will offset security worries for the best-placed companies. Keen to benefit from the positive 
factors, investors are focusing on groups that offer a wide range of destinations, can avoid places where safety is in 
doubt, and have robust enough finances to absorb potential shocks.
 "Big companies may be better prepared because they have more ... and further destinations that will be tempering 
the losses," said Ipek Ozkardeskaya, market analyst at London Capital Group. The full impact of the Nov. 13 
attacks that killed 130 people in Paris will become clearer with fourth-quarter results, but there is already evidence 
of a significant hit to Europe's tourism industry, worth $500 billion according to the U.N.'s World Tourism 
Organization. Hotel revenues in Paris are down 30-40 percent from last year's levels, restaurant revenues have 
fallen by a similar margin while new flight bookings to Paris fell by 27 percent in the week following the attacks. That 
cost Air France KLM 50 million euros ($55 million), while British bus and train operator Stagecoach last week issued 
a profit warning because of customer fears about trips to big cities. "I suspect that we're going to see a little bit more 
of a lingering impact for the travel industry," said Ken Odeluga, market analyst at City Index. Analysts who spoke to 
Reuters gave estimates of the total revenue hit on Europe's travel and tourism sectors from the Paris attacks 
ranging from 800 million euros to well over 1 billion euros. With the political and security situation still volatile in 
many parts of the Middle East and major Western countries on high alert for further Islamist attacks, safety fears will 
continue to hang over the sector for the foreseeable future. "It can get worse when, instead of having one event, 
you are starting to have a series of events, because people then feel very insecure," said Daniele Patti, senior 
research analyst at Allianz Global Investors. On the positive side, analysts cited tour operator TUI, cruise operator 
Carnival, online holiday retailer On The Beach Group, Ryanair and British Airways parent IAG as being able to 
weather the storm. TUI, the world's largest tour operator, said on Thursday it was confident of increasing earnings 
by more than 10 percent this year, as it switched out of Egypt and Tunisia to focus on the Canary Islands and 
Cyprus instead. With ships seen as less likely to be targeted in attacks, Carnival was cited as a good bet in the 
current context, while On The Beach Group could benefit from its focus on destinations like Spain, Portugal and the 
Canaries. Airlines are also attractive as they are trading at a discount to the market, with Ryanair and IAG's price-
to-earnings ratios at 13 and 11.5 respectively, compared with an average of 16.6 on the STOXX Europe 600 index 
and 16.4 on the UK FTSE 100 index. Oil is a key factor for airlines, with analysts estimating that a dollar drop in the 
oil price added between 10 and 15 pence (15 to 23 cents) to their share prices last year. ($1 = 0.9129 euros) ($1 = 
0.6592 pounds) 
Security Fears Blight European Tourism, Oil, Economy Offer Relief
Load-Date: December 14, 2015
End of Document
More Airlines To Offer HighSpeed Wi-Fi On Board
More Airlines To Offer HighSpeed Wi-Fi On Board
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
December 11, 2015 Friday 1:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 276 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - Connectivity is a necessity in today's life, and no matter whether you are in ground or air. 
That's why airline companies are competing each other to provide better quality Wi-Fi connection during travel. Now 
you can check e-mails, share a photo on Instagram, send messages on Whats app or browse and can be well 
connected while on a travel at a height of 10,000 feet above earth's surface. 
  Air Berlin has recently announcement the availability of AeroMobile 3G eXPhone service for its passengers and 
the new high speed connectivity will transform your communication abilities and access to Internet. Till now,  
airlines were using 2.5G connectivity on board.Phone calls and Skype or other VoIP services will not be allowed. 
The Internet service will be provided by Panasonic Avionics Corp.   The passengers can download free airberlin 
connect app from Apple App store or Google Play store. Smartphone, tablet or laptop charges will apply for Wi-Fi at 
a rate of 4.90 pounds for 30 minutes or 20 mb data. For 60 minutes or 50 mb data, charges will be 8.90 pounds.   In 
medium-haul flights passengers have to pay 13.90 pounds for 90 mb data for the duration of the flight, while in long-
haul flights, 120 mb data will be available for 18.90 pounds for the duration of the flight.   Emirates, JetBlue, 
Norwegian, Turkish airlines, Air China, Philippine airlines, Hong Kong airlines and Nok air are currently providing 
free Wi-Fi in their flights. In a matter of a few months, international airlines such as Ryanair, Finnair, Kuwait airways, 
Srilankan airlines, TAAG Angola airlines, Westjet, etc. will provide Wi-Fi facilities.      
Load-Date: December 11, 2015
End of Document
More Airlines To Offer HighSpeed Wi-Fi On Board
More Airlines To Offer HighSpeed Wi-Fi On Board
RTT News (United States)
December 11, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 288 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Connectivity is a necessity in today's life, and no matter whether you are in ground or air. That's why 
airline companies are competing each other to provide better quality Wi-Fi connection during travel. Now you can 
check e-mails, share a photo on Instagram, send messages on Whats app or browse and can be well connected 
while on a travel at a height of 10,000 feet above earth's surface.
Air Berlin has recently announcement the availability of AeroMobile 3G eXPhone service for its passengers and the 
new high speed connectivity will transform your communication abilities and access to Internet. Till now, airlines 
were using 2.5G connectivity on board.Phone calls and Skype or other VoIP services will not be allowed. The 
Internet service will be provided by Panasonic Avionics Corp. The passengers can download free airberlin connect 
app from Apple App store or Google Play store. Smartphone, tablet or laptop charges will apply for Wi-Fi at a rate of 
4.90 pounds for 30 minutes or 20 mb data. For 60 minutes or 50 mb data, charges will be 8.90 pounds.
In medium-haul flights passengers have to pay 13.90 pounds for 90 mb data for the duration of the flight, while in 
long-haul flights, 120 mb data will be available for 18.90 pounds for the duration of the flight.
Emirates, JetBlue, Norwegian, Turkish airlines, Air China, Philippine airlines, Hong Kong airlines and Nok air are 
currently providing free Wi-Fi in their flights. In a matter of a few months, international airlines such as Ryanair, 
Finnair, Kuwait airways, Srilankan airlines, TAAG Angola airlines, Westjet, etc. will provide Wi-Fi facilities.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 11, 2015
End of Document
Stagecoach stalls amid passenger terror worries Travel & leisure: Earnings test
Stagecoach stalls amid passenger terror worries; Travel & leisure: Earnings 
test
Financial Times (London, England)
December 10, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 22
Length: 726 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Highlight: Transport group warns of lower profits as Paris attacks hit demand for intercity trips
Body
Stagecoach has become the first UK transport group to warn that earnings will be lower than expected this year 
after demand from passengers was hit by the recent terrorist attacks in Paris .
The group said yesterday that passengers had cut back their journeys to big cities since the attack in the French 
capital last month, which killed 130 people. It downgraded its annual earnings forecast by about 5 per cent.
"We've been through similar events before, such as the London bombings, so we've seen the business react like 
this . . . and our experience tells us it will recover, it just takes a bit of time," said Ross Paterson , Stagecoach's 
finance director.
Budget airlines, including Ryanair and easyJet, have already flagged up a fall in demand following the November 13 
attacks, but Stagecoach is the first to warn it could hit earnings.
Carolyn McCall , chief executive of easyJet, last month said the budget airline had experienced a "cooling off" in 
demand for travel to France but that she expected normal service to resume quickly.
Meanwhile, Ryanair last week said it had seen a small softening in pricing in the first couple of weeks after the 
attacks, but nothing "material".
Stagecoach stalls amid passenger terror worries Travel & leisure: Earnings test
Eurostar, which connects London by rail to Paris and Brussels, said it would not release its passenger numbers 
until its full-year financial results next year.
For Stagecoach, the impact has been felt across several parts of its business, from the Megabus coach business 
that transports passengers to cities including London, Paris and Brussels, to weekend demand on South West 
Trains, which operates into London's Waterloo station.
"The bits that have been most impacted by Paris, not surprisingly, are [those] that touch the big cities. There's been 
an unwillingness to travel from those big cities in recent weeks," said Mr Paterson.
Analysts said the downgrade was not just caused by the recent Paris attacks.
Stagecoach said it was also experiencing softer than expected revenue at a number of its regional UK bus 
businesses , which have been hit by this week's floods in Cumbria and increasing congestion in some cities.
The floods have made some routes in Cumbria inaccessible, while its bus depot in Carlisle is under water. "We're 
not able to use the depot so that's causing us some operational challenges. Thankfully the team managed to get 
our vehicles out so we've avoided any damage to the buses," said Mr Paterson.
"In terms of what they are saying about numbers, there's a strong sense that most of it is not related to Paris," said 
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum. "In local buses there has been a general softening recently."
Other UK bus and rail groups have been reluctant to point to a slowdown in demand from the Paris attacks. Steve 
Montgomery, managing director of rail at FirstGroup, said he felt it was "too early" to make a conclusion.
Go-Ahead agreed, saying it had no evidence to suggest the Paris attacks had affected passenger numbers. 
However, unlike Stagecoach, it does not operate intercity routes on its trains, with the majority of its customers 
being commuters travelling into London.
The warning from Stagecoach sent its shares down almost 14 per cent to 307p yesterday, despite the group 
posting a 27.5 per cent rise in first-half revenues to £1.97bn.
The group's total operating profit of £137.2m, up from £123.5m, was boosted by its rail division in the six months to 
October 31. This was largely down to the start in March of its Virgin Trains East Coast franchise , in which 
Stagecoach has a 90 per cent interest. Pre-tax profits fell by about 7 per cent to £90.8m.
Revenue at the company's UK rail division rose 63 per cent to £1.09bn, from £664m a year ago. However, several 
rail franchises are due to end over the next two and a half years, including the lucrative South West Trains line and 
East Midlands. Yesterday, Stagecoach failed in its bid to run the Transpennine Express train line, which was 
awarded to UK rival First Group.
Mr Khoo said the company faced short-term pressure as well as longer-term risk from the government's plan to 
devolve transport powers to local authorities.
Martin Griffiths , chief executive, admitted short-term challenges remained in its sector. However, he added: "The 
fundamentals of the business in rail and bus remain strong. We're really excited about the opportunities to take 
Megabus into Europe."
Load-Date: December 9, 2015
End of Document
Dublin Chamber of Commerce celebrate Christmas lunch; Dublin Chamber ...
Dublin Chamber of Commerce celebrate Christmas lunch; Dublin Chamber 
...
Business World (Digest)
December 10, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 46 words
Highlight: The Dublin Chamber of Commerce today held their Christmas lunch at the InterContinental Dublin.
Body
The Dublin Chamber of Commerce today held their Christmas lunch at the InterContinental Dublin.
The guest speakers of the day included CEO of Ryanair, Michael O'Leary and CEO of Vodafone, Anne O'Leary.
The event raised money for the Peter McVerry Trust.
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 15, 2015
End of Document
Airline industry set for boom time, says aviation body IATA
Airline industry set for boom time, says aviation body IATA
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
December 10, 2015 Thursday 3:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 184 words
Body
       GENEVA (dpa-AFX) - The aviation industry is booming again thanks to cheaper oil after years of difficulties, the 
world airline association IATA said in Geneva on Thursday.  Airlines could expect profits like never before this year 
and next, IATA chief executive Tony Tyler announced as he increased his previous profit forecast for the sector for 
2015 to 33 billion dollars from 29.3 billion dollars.  That figure would be almost twice as much as was recorded in 
2014.  Next year, aviation industry profit is expected to rise to 36.3 billion dollars.  'After years of destruction of our 
capital, we can finally provide a minimum level of profitability which an investor would expect,' Tyler said.  Oil prices 
have been plunging for the last year and a half.  It even looks better for airlines in the previously difficult market of 
Europe. Companies such as Lufthansa, Air France-KLM and Ryanair are expected to reach a total profit of 6.9 
billion dollars this year, IATA estimated.  That would be 1.1 billion more than last thought while 2016 should see a 
8.6 billion dollar profit.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: December 10, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches Liverpool summer 2016 schedule
Ryanair launches Liverpool summer 2016 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 9, 2015 Wednesday 12:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 306 words
Highlight: Ryanair, an airline, has launched its Liverpool summer 2016 schedule with 29 routes including Faro, 
Lanzarote and Reus and more flights to Dublin.
Body
Ryanair's Liverpool Summer 2016 schedule will deliver: 116 weekly flights; 1.8m customers p.a.; and 1,350 "on-
site" jobs p.a. Ryanair is also celebrating the 10th anniversary of its Liverpool base, and has carried over 24 million 
customers to/from Liverpool, since its first flight to Liverpool took off in 1988. In Liverpool, Ryanair's Robin Kiely 
said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Liverpool Summer 2016 schedule, with 29 routes in total and more flights to 
Dublin, which will deliver 1.8m customers p.a. and support 1,350* "on-site" jobs at Liverpool Airport. "Our customers 
can look forward to further improvements in the coming months, including our personalised website, with exciting 
new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and real customer destination reviews, under our "Always Getting Better" 
programme, as we continue to offer so much more than just lowest fares. "To celebrate the launch of our Liverpool 
Summer 2016 schedule and our 10 year base anniversary, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our 
European network at fares starting from just £19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Monday (30 
Nov). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and 
avoid missing out." 
Robin Tudor, Head of PR at Liverpool John Lennon Airport added, "It only seems like yesterday that Ryanair made 
Liverpool one of their major UK bases and over the past 10 years, they have given passengers from across the 
region the opportunity to fly to a fantastic range of destinations and at some of the lowest fares, all with the added 
convenience and hassle free benefits of flying from Liverpool. Ryanair's continued commitment to Liverpool will 
mean another busy summer here next year and we look forward to working with Ryanair over the next 10 years."
Load-Date: December 15, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair predicts 5m customers over the holidays Ryanair predict...
Ryanair predicts 5m customers over the holidays; Ryanair predict...
Business World (Digest)
December 8, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 101 words
Highlight: Ryanair has today predicted that they will carry over 5m customers between 18 December and 7 
January across its European network, as it adds 1 million additional seats for people flying home for the holiday 
season.
Body
Ryanair has today predicted that they will carry over 5m customers between 18 December and 7 January across its 
European network, as it adds 1 million additional seats for people flying home for the holiday season.
Tenerife is the most popular destination this winter, followed by Milan, Rome, Barcelona, London and Berlin.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely commented, "Ryanair will carry over 5m customers across Europe during the Christmas 
period - an increase of over 900,000 customers on 2014 - with record bookings across our network as people fly 
home for Christmas on the lowest fares."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair and eDreams dispute continues; Ryanair and eDr...
Ryanair and eDreams dispute continues; Ryanair and eDr...
Business World (Digest)
December 7, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 167 words
Highlight: Ryanair has today rejected claims made by eDreams that Ryanair was preventing online travel agencies 
(OTA) from providing consumers with the lowest fares, and re-iterated that it will continue with legal proceedings 
launched against eDreams and Google in
Body
Ryanair has today rejected claims made by eDreams that Ryanair was preventing online travel agencies (OTA) 
from providing consumers with the lowest fares, and re-iterated that it will continue with legal proceedings launched 
against eDreams and Google in the Irish High Courts last week.
The airline claims it has a number of agreements in place with OTAs across Europe, providing a standard API to 
each of its online partners enabling them to legitimately connect into the Ryanair website.
Ryanair's CMO Kenny Jacobs said, "eDreams' claim that Ryanair is trying to prevent consumers from accessing 
Europe's lowest fares is completely untrue. Ryanair has a number of agreements currently in place with a range of 
websites, all of whom have signed agreements offered to them by Ryanair - something eDreams refuses to do.
"The High Court action is proceeding as planned and we will continue to work on behalf of consumers until 
eDreams' deceptive practices are fully eradicated." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 11, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
December 6, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 633 words
Byline: Emma Kennedy and Fearghal O'Connor
Body
Ryanair just short of 100m milestone
As predicted on these pages last Sunday, Ryanair came close to bursting through the 100 million passenger barrier 
when it released its latest traffic figures last week. 
The airline is now on the cusp of hitting the 100 million milestone, with rolling annual traffic to November of 99.9 
million customers. 
Traffic was up 21 per cent to 7.71 million customers last month, while the airline's load factor rose to 93 per cent. 
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said Ryanair customers could look forward to "more service enhancements" in the year 
ahead, including a "new car hire service, new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms, and 
improved inflight menus". 
New figures from other airlines also pointed to a strong November. "EasyJet and Norwegian saw load factor 
improvements in November of +0.9 points and +4.1 points year-on-year respectively, helping to drive double-digit 
traffic growth," Davy Stockbrokers noted. 
"These trends are similar to those seen by Ryanair and Wizz in the same month. The trailing 12-month averages for 
the main European low-cost carriers are now at record levels." 
Cantor Fitzgerald remains positive on Hibernia Reit
In a research note published last week, Cantor Fitzgerald indicated that it had recently met with management from 
property investment company Hibernia Reit and "continue[s] to believe that the story remains on track". 
Cantor Fitzgerald said that it remained positive on the property investment company, given that "its portfolio is 
largely under rented". 
Boardroom Briefing
According to Cantor Fitzgerald's analysis, about one-third of Hibernia Reit's portfolio will see "a rent event prior to 
2018". 
"The risk we see for Hibernia remains systematic and execution risk, given the Reit's development pipeline which 
stretches out to 2020 at present," the broker noted. "Despite this, we remain positive noting the continued 
favourable trends in Irish commercial property as well as a growing dividend yield." 
Providence signs deal with PSE Kinsale Energy
A subsidiary of Irish oil and gas exploration company Providence Resources has entered into an exclusive option 
agreement with PSE Kinsale Energy in relation to a site adjacent to the Barryroe oil field in the North Celtic Sea 
Basin. 
Providence's chief executive Tony O'Reilly said the deal represented a "unique opportunity to test a potential 
eastern extension of the Barryroe oil field". 
Last week also saw the exploration company take full control of the licence that includes the Kish Bank Basin 
prospect, off the coast of Dublin. It has acquired the 50 per cent stake of its partner PSE Seven Heads, subject to 
Irish ministerial approval. O'Reilly said the planned increase in equity demonstrated the company's ongoing 
commitment to the Kish Bank Basin. 
AIB schedules capital plan meeting for mid-December
AIB has announced that it will hold an extraordinary general meeting on Wednesday, December 16 to discuss its 
planned capital reorganisation. 
The meeting, which will begin at 10am, will be held in the RDS Concert Hall in Ballsbridge in Dublin 4. 
Meanwhile last week Goodbody flagged that ratings agency S&P had lifted its outlook on AIB. "A few banks have 
been placed on positive outlook, of which one was AIB (from stable to positive), while ratings were reaffirmed at 
BB+," Goodbody noted. 
The broker said that the bank's ongoing progress "augurs well for continued positive ratings action from the ratings 
agencies". 
New board member at Malin
Irish biotech and healthcare fund Malin has appointed a new board member. 
Kyran McLaughlin, the deputy chairman and head of capital markets at Davy, joined Malin's board last week as a 
non-executive director. 
He also holds a number of public and private company directorships, according to a statement issued by Malin. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Salmon Software 's (EURO)500,000 foray into South African market
Salmon Software's (EURO)500,000 foray into South African market
Sunday Business Post
December 6, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 431 words
Byline: Elaine O'Regan
Body
Company: Salmon Software
Done Deal: (EURO)500,000 investment in South African market 
The clincher: "We would anticipate that we'd be generating revenues there of (EURO)2 million within two years" - 
John Byrne, chief executive, Salmon Software. 
Salmon Software, the Irish-owned developer of treasury management systems, is investing (EURO)500,000 in a 
new Cape Town operation in a bid to tap into English-speaking markets in South Africa, Kenya and Nigeria. 
Salmon opened its Cape Town office last September and has appointed a regional manager to lead what founder 
John Byrne described as a two-year project in a new market for the company. 
"We would anticipate that we'd be generating revenues there of (EURO)2 million within two years," he said. 
"The (EURO)500,000 is going towards research, marketing material, seminars and setting up the office there". 
Byrne established Salmon in 1985 and has been selling to the British market for two decades. 
The company's annual turnover tops (EURO)3 million. It employs 25 people at its Dublin headquarters and offices 
in Britain and the Czech Republic. 
"We have engaged with Enterprise Ireland over the last couple of years about investigating the market in and 
around South Africa," said Byrne. 
"It's in the same time zone and its corporate treasury business is very much modelled on the UK, which has been a 
primary focus for us and very similar to the Irish market". 
Salmon Software 's (EURO)500,000 foray into South African market
Salmon's Irish customers include Ryanair, Glanbia and CRH. Recent British wins have included Iglo Foods, hotel 
and travel group Belmond, and communications infrastructure and media services company Arqiva. 
"About 50 per cent of our revenue comes from the UK, 30 per cent from Ireland, and the remainder from the Middle 
East, Europe and the US," said Byrne. 
"We have doubled our revenues in the last 18 months, and we expect to do the same in the next two years with 
South African and UK expansion". 
Salmon's corporate treasury system can be used to manage accounts, facilities, books, funds, dealers and 
companies. 
"It's for fairly large enterprises, trading in excess of (EURO)500 million," said Byrne. "We cover all the various 
instruments, from the simple ones, like deposits, through to complex processes like cross-currency interest rate 
swaps". 
Byrne said Salmon would continue to develop its software in line with ongoing developments in the market. 
"We're expanding our offering to include big data and inter-company netting. There are only a handful of players in 
that, but it's a pretty big market and we expect to get into it over the next couple of years," he said. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
McWilliams: Persuasion is the name of the game
McWilliams: Persuasion is the name of the game
Sunday Business Post
December 6, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1044 words
Byline: David McWilliams
Highlight: The Other Voices festival in Dingle is a simple but brilliant microcosm of our unique selling points as a 
nation
Body
This Krzysztof exuded a calm, efficient sense of authority. He radiated with the type of firm confidence given off by 
those who know what they are doing when in control of those who don't. In his neatly pressed Ryanair uniform and 
with his swift deliberated movements, he wouldn't have been out of place front of house in a swanky Mayfair hotel. 
On Friday night, Krzysztof, the head of cabin on the Ryanair flight from Stansted to Farranfore, was the only thing 
that prevented total pandemonium on board. The pilot had casually suggested that there may be a bit of bumpiness 
on the way into Kerry, but nothing prepared us for the experience of flying into the teeth of Storm Desmond. 
After two aborted attempts at landing, the aircraft buffeted around like a paper plane, and the pilot decided to head 
for the relative safety of Cork Airport. Us passengers were petrified, but the crew was outstanding: quiet, unflinching 
and gentle in the face of some very nervous and nauseous passengers. The officious Krzysztof stood out, 
marshalling his troops, remaining serene as the plane jumped about the sky, regularly talking to the captain and 
keeping everyone up to date with reassuring words. Ryanair is lucky to have people of that calibre. 
This experience, on my way to the very special Other Voices festival in Dingle, got me thinking about the fact that 
people matter; and in small countries like Ireland, people matter more. 
By this, I mean that those who keep their head when everyone around is losing it, those who go for it when 
everyone else is skeptical, and those who through their own persistence see that the job gets done, are 
immeasurably valuable to either a company and even a country. 
One of these types of people is Philip King, the man behind Other Voices. As I chatted to some quite traumatised 
English hipster musicians when we finally reached terra firma in Cork, I thought of King's achievement in getting all 
these people to come to Dingle in the only red weather alert Ireland has ever experienced. These guys relished the 
opportunity to play here, to tiny crowds in one of the remotest places in Ireland - and they say it is the best gig of the 
McWilliams: Persuasion is the name of the game
year. It takes something special to create that chemistry. King has done it year after year, bringing hugely important 
cash into the local economy at a time when, as the local taxi driver John Joe confided: "You'd be watching the 
pennies." 
The arts and arts festivals are a huge business in Ireland. In many ways, Ireland is defined by the arts. When we 
think of the country, let's say in comparison to Germany, what defines us? For Germany, it is clear. The defining 
characteristics of that country and that people are precision, engineering, regimentation and process. Despite it 
being the homeland of some of Europe's most important philosophers and musicians, you don't think Schiller, 
Goethe or Beethoven when you think of Germany. We all know that these stereotypes are a bit unfair, but they are 
what they are. 
In contrast, the defining characteristics of Ireland are still largely sourced in the arts, in music, literature, the stage 
and the story. This is what makes us good at festivals. This is what makes us brilliant hosts, and what makes the 
festival business a sustainable one for the country. 
I was standing just inside the door of Foxy Johns last night in Dingle, the storm howling away outside, and here we 
were huddled cozily inside, watching English band The Academic on live screens straight from St James's Church. 
This simply doesn't happen in other countries. It is unique to us, and it is real. 
When something is real, it doesn't seem forced, and this authenticity is impossible to fabricate. So when you come 
to a festival like this, something that has grown organically over more than a decade, you feel like part of something 
special. And this is where the economics comes in. 
Far too often, economics is discussed in terms of numbers and balance sheets in the hard unforgiving language of 
the ledger or the financial statement. And while all of these are essential - at a monetary level - what actually makes 
the economy tick is authenticity. What King and his team in Dingle have done is to create an experience which 
people value so much that they travel in significant numbers to west Kerry in the hail. These experiences are 
enormously valuable to the punters who turn up and they are enormously valuable to the local businesses. 
So economics, particularly modern economics, in a fairly wealthy country off the coast of Europe, is about 
persuasion. Not branding; persuasion. People don't really start businesses, they start crusades and then others 
respond because they understand that this is special. Festivals are like this. All arts festivals begin because dogged 
people want to showcase great art. But if the festival loses money very quickly, it will run aground, so they all must 
make commercial sense so costs are covered and the people involved can put bread on the table. 
The first few years of this will be tortuous because starting something new is always difficult if not impossible. 
Bringing world-class musicians to Dingle in December, on paper at least, shouldn't have worked. But it does. And it 
does because people matter, and the people who dream up these hare-brained schemes matter. The people who 
are ridiculed by "know-alls" who sneer at their efforts, are the people who make the world tick. 
When I look at what Ireland can offer the world as a sustainable business that is authentic and deeply rooted, it 
seems to me that the economics of the arts is an obvious candidate. Ireland has a right to involve itself in this area. 
As people become more comfortable, they value experiences much more than possessions; and arts and music 
festivals are these experiences. 
However, the essential alchemy is the one or two individuals, their efforts, their professionalism and their 
commitment. These exceptional individuals can come in various guises. I saw one on Friday night commandeer a 
packed plane and exude calm in difficult circumstances. I saw another one, Philip King, just now, on the main street 
of Dingle in the deluge, sticking his head into a bar, just to make sure one small detail was attended to. That's what 
makes the difference. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
McWilliams: Persuasion is the name of the game
End of Document
Ryanair announces new cut-price car parking at Dublin airport Ryanair announc...
Ryanair announces new cut-price car parking at Dublin airport; Ryanair 
announc...
Business World (Digest)
December 4, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 69 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced a new low cost car parking service agreementwithLooking4Parking, offering 
customers new parking rates at Dublin Airport.
Body
Ryanair today announced a new low cost car parking service agreementwithLooking4Parking, offering customers 
new parking rates at Dublin Airport.
Customers can book access to the airport from three different car parks - Quick Park, the Clayton Hotel and Smart 
Park, and avail of airport shuttle buses, 24-hour security and a 'Keep Your Keys' facility, available on the 
Ryanair.com website.
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air's passengers take off
Ryanair and Wizz Air's passengers take off
City A.M.
December 4, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 127 words
Byline: CATHERINE NEILAN
Body
BUDGET airlines Ryanair and Wizz Air yesterday both reported a healthy jump in passenger numbers for 
November.
Traffic at Ryanair, which is partway through its customer charm offensive dubbed "Always Getting Better", rose 21 
per cent to 7.71m passengers, while its load factor - a measure to racord how full its planes are - rose five 
percentage points to 93 per cent.
Rolling annual traffic to November rose 17 per cent to 99.9m customers.
The business is entering the second year of its programme, which will include a new website, new app, updated 
cabin interiors and crew uniforms and an improved inflight menu.
Passenger numbers at Wizz Air, meanwhile, grew by 26 per cent for the month, flying 1.49m people in that time. 
Load factor rose slightly to 83.6 per cent.
Load-Date: December 4, 2015
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for Dezember 3rd 2015
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for Dezember 3rd 2015
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
December 3, 2015 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 230 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Thursday, Dezember 3rd 2015  ^ DATA RELEASES 
02:45 CHN: Caixin PMI Services 11/15 07:30 F:   Unemployment data Q3/15 09:45 I:   PMI Services 11/15 09:50 F:   
PMI Services 11/15 (2nd est.) 09:55 D:   PMI Services 11/15 (2nd est.) 
10:00 EU:  PMI Services 11/15 (2nd est.) 10:30 GB:  PMI Services 11/15 11:00 EU:  Retail Sales 10/15 13:45 EU:  
EU ECB policy decision and Draghi press conf. 14:30 USA: Initial jobless claims (Week) 15:45 USA: Markit PMI 
Services 11/15 Final 16:00 USA: Industrial Orders 10/15 16:00 USA: ISM-Index Services 11/15  MORE DATA 
RELEASES WITH NO TIME SPECIFIED       D:   Arbeitskreis Aktienindices on DAX family reshuffle       F:   Axa                  
Investor Day, London       N:   Norsk Hydro                                Capital Markets Day       GB:  International Airlines 
Group               Traffic Data 11/15       I:   Fiat Chrysler Automobiles                  EGM       IRL: Ryanair                   
Traffic Data 11/15       USA: US Fed\xB4s Yellen to appear before Congressional Joint Economic               
Committee\xB0  While all data were researched with the greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH 
assumes no liability for the correctness of this information. All time designations are provided in CET.  Copyright 
dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: December 3, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Tipped To Open Lower Ahead Of ECB Decision
European Markets Tipped To Open Lower Ahead Of ECB Decision
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
December 3, 2015 Thursday 8:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 544 words
Body
       PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets are poised for a lower open on Thursday, after weak cues from Asia 
and Wall Street overnight, ahead of the key interest rate decision from the European Central Bank which is 
expected to expand its quantitative easing program.  The European Central Bank will announce its interest rate 
decision at 7:45 am ET. The bank is forecast to cut its deposit rate to -0.3 percent from -0.2 percent. 
The key refi rate is expected to be kept unchanged at a record low 0.05 percent and the marginal lending rate at 
0.30 percent.    Following the announcement, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi will hold the 
customary post-meeting press conference at 8:30 am ET.  Services and composite PMI reports from major 
European economies for November and Eurozone retail trade data for October are due later in the day.   Data from 
the Australian Bureau of Statistics showed that the nation's exports were down 3.0 percent on month in October to 
A$26.594 billion. The imports were roughly flat at A$29.900 billion.   Meanwhile, data from Caixin showed that the 
services sector in China continued to expand in November, albeit at a slower rate, with a PMI score of 51.2. That's 
down from 52.0 in October.  The DAX futures were falling 34.50 points, the CAC 40 futures dropped 13.50            
points and the FTSE 100 futures declined 20.00 points and the Swiss Market Index futures retreated 60.00 points.  
The European markets closed mixed on Wednesday. The DAX fell 0.6 percent and the CAC 40 dropped 0.2 
percent, while the FTSE 100 index and the Swiss Market index gained 0.4 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively.  
On the corporate front, Barclays has agreed to sell its Italian Retail Banking network of 89 branches, including a 
broadly balanced portfolio of assets and liabilities, to CheBanca!, a member of the Mediobanca Group.   BG Group 
confirmed that the recommended cash and share offer for the company to be made by Royal Dutch Shell has 
received approval from the Australian Treasurer through the Foreign Investment Review Board.  Irish airline 
Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported that its traffic for the month of November grew 21 percent to 7.71 million 
customers from last year's 6.35 million customers. Load factor rose 5 percentage points from last year.  Wood 
Group has agreed to acquire The Infinity Group for an initial consideration of $150 million. Completion of the deal is 
expected later this year.  Smith (DS) reported lower pre-tax profit for the first half of the year, while revenue grew 6 
percent in constant currency.  The Asian stock markets were mostly trading lower after crude oil prices fell below 
the $40 a barrel mark overnight and as comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen suggested that 
the central bank remains on track to raise interest rates later this month.   The U.S. futures indicate a slightly higher 
European Markets Tipped To Open Lower Ahead Of ECB Decision
open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks saw considerable weakness, partly due to a sharp drop in the 
price of crude oil. The Dow slid 0.9 percent, the Nasdaq fell 0.6 percent and the S&P 500 tumbled 1.1 percent.  
Among commodities, crude for January delivery rose $0.46 to $40.40 per barrel, while February gold slid $1.6 to 
$1052.2 a troy ounce.      
Load-Date: December 3, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Tipped To Open Lower Ahead Of ECB Decision
European Markets Tipped To Open Lower Ahead Of ECB Decision
RTT News (United States)
December 3, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 550 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are poised for a lower open on Thursday, after weak cues from Asia and Wall 
Street overnight, ahead of the key interest rate decision from the European Central Bank which is expected to 
expand its quantitative easing program.
The European Central Bank will announce its interest rate decision at 7:45 am ET. The bank is forecast to cut its 
deposit rate to -0.3 percent from -0.2 percent. The key refi rate is expected to be kept unchanged at a record low 
0.05 percent and the marginal lending rate at 0.30 percent.
Following the announcement, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi will hold the customary post-meeting 
press conference at 8:30 am ET.
Services and composite PMI reports from major European economies for November and Eurozone retail trade data 
for October are due later in the day.
Data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics showed that the nation's exports were down 3.0 percent on month in 
October to A$26.594 billion. The imports were roughly flat at A$29.900 billion.
Meanwhile, data from Caixin showed that the services sector in China continued to expand in November, albeit at a 
slower rate, with a PMI score of 51.2. That's down from 52.0 in October.
The DAX futures were falling 34.50 points, the CAC 40 futures dropped 13.50 points and the FTSE 100 futures 
declined 20.00 points and the Swiss Market Index futures retreated 60.00 points.
The European markets closed mixed on Wednesday. The DAX fell 0.6 percent and the CAC 40 dropped 0.2 
percent, while the FTSE 100 index and the Swiss Market index gained 0.4 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively.
On the corporate front, Barclays has agreed to sell its Italian Retail Banking network of 89 branches, including a 
broadly balanced portfolio of assets and liabilities, to CheBanca!, a member of the Mediobanca Group.
BG Group confirmed that the recommended cash and share offer for the company to be made by Royal Dutch Shell 
has received approval from the Australian Treasurer through the Foreign Investment Review Board.
Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported that its traffic for the month of November grew 21 percent to 7.71 
million customers from last year's 6.35 million customers. Load factor rose 5 percentage points from last year.
European Markets Tipped To Open Lower Ahead Of ECB Decision
Wood Group has agreed to acquire The Infinity Group for an initial consideration of $150 million. Completion of the 
deal is expected later this year.
Smith (DS) reported lower pre-tax profit for the first half of the year, while revenue grew 6 percent in constant 
currency.
The Asian stock markets were mostly trading lower after crude oil prices fell below the $40 a barrel mark overnight 
and as comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen suggested that the central bank remains on 
track to raise interest rates later this month.
The U.S. futures indicate a slightly higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks saw considerable 
weakness, partly due to a sharp drop in the price of crude oil. The Dow slid 0.9 percent, the Nasdaq fell 0.6 percent 
and the S&P 500 tumbled 1.1 percent.
Among commodities, crude for January delivery rose $0.46 to $40.40 per barrel, while February gold slid $1.6 to 
$1052.2 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair November Traffic, Load Factor Climb
Ryanair November Traffic, Load Factor Climb
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
December 3, 2015 Thursday 8:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 108 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Thursday that its traffic for the month of 
November grew 21% to 7.71 million customers from last year's 6.35 million customers.  Load factor rose 5 
percentage points to 93% from 88 percent a year ago.   Rolling annual traffic to November grew 17% to 99.9 million 
customers.  Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said, 'These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower 
fares, our stronger forward bookings and the continuing success of our 'Always Getting Better' customer experience 
programme, which continues to deliver stronger than expected traffic and load factors.'      
Load-Date: December 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair November Traffic, Load Factor Climb - Quick Facts
Ryanair November Traffic, Load Factor Climb - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
December 3, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 121 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Thursday that its traffic for the month of November 
grew 21% to 7.71 million customers from last year's 6.35 million customers.
Load factor rose 5 percentage points to 93% from 88 percent a year ago.
Rolling annual traffic to November grew 17% to 99.9 million customers.
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said, "These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower fares, our 
stronger forward bookings and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience 
programme, which continues to deliver stronger than expected traffic and load factors."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 3, 2015
End of Document
Tourists try to identify safer destinations after attacks Tourists try to...
Tourists try to identify safer destinations after attacks; Tourists try to...
Business World (Digest)
December 2, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 391 words
Highlight: Visitor numbers to Paris should recover quickly after last month's deadly attacks but destinations such 
as Tunisia and Egypt may experience a more permanent drop in demand as tourists shift to places they view as 
safer, industry experts say.
Body
Visitor numbers to Paris should recover quickly after last month's deadly attacks but destinations such as Tunisia 
and Egypt may experience a more permanent drop in demand as tourists shift to places they view as safer, industry 
experts say.
The attacks in Paris on Nov 13, in which 130 people were killed, followed a week later by a shooting at a luxury 
hotel in Mali, have dampened travel demand and hit travel stocks, from airlines to hotels.
But with travel demand flourishing this year thanks to low oil prices and improving economies, people are not likely 
to start canceling travel plans outright.
The World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) predicts the sector will grow 3.5 percent this year, or 1 percent 
more than the global economy. "Our data has shown us that people do not stop traveling but rather change 
destinations," WTTC President and CEO David Scowsill told Reuters. He said a big destination like Paris should 
suffer only a blip in figures before recovering quickly. France's AccorHotels has felt a "real economic impact" from 
the attacks in Paris, with fewer last-minute bookings for the second half of December, Accor Chief Executive 
Sebastien Bazin told BFM Business TV on Wednesday, adding that the effect will probably last three or four 
months. Among airlines, Scandinavian carrier SAS said it had seen a drop in travel to Paris and Brussels but that 
traffic was already returning to normal, comments echoed by Ryanair . Roy Scheerder, commercial director of Air 
France-KLM's low cost arm Transavia said that Paris should recover quickly because people weren't only going 
there on holiday but also for business and to visit friends. Others note that tourists quickly returned to London and 
Madrid after bombings in the previous decade. The ITB World Travel Trends report, compiled just before the Paris 
attacks, noted there was already a trend towards places viewed as "safer." Once popular destinations such as 
Egypt and Tunisia, which have this year suffered a series of attacks including the suspected bombing of a Russian 
Tourists try to identify safer destinations after attacks Tourists try to...
airplane and a shooting at a beach resort, may not bounce back quickly, Martin Buck, who organizes the annual ITB 
travel fair, told Reuters. "If one bomb after another explodes, then tourists will vote with their feet and simply stay 
away," Buck told Reuters. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 7, 2015
End of Document
Online airfare fight: Ryanair sues Google over its eDreams nightmare
Online airfare fight: Ryanair sues Google over its eDreams nightmare
City A.M.
December 2, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 213 words
Byline: BILLY BAMBROUGH
Body
RYAINAIR is suing Google in Ireland following repeated requests to remove travel comparison site eDreams from 
search results for the airline.
The Irish airline claims eDreams is misleading customers due to similar website layouts.
EDreams uses the URL www.Ryanair.EDreams.co.uk and sells tickets for Ryanair flights with added fees.
It follows a successful move by the airline in Germany, resulting in Google removing eDreams from results. Ryanair 
said it has repeatedly called on Google to stop selling advertising to eDreams.
Chief executive of Ryanair Michael O'Leary said: "All we want is for eDreams to stop duping consumers and 
advertise honestly."
According to the airline, eDreams has been doing this for up to 18 months, but Ryanair claims there has been a 
surge in customers asking it about eDreams in the past year.
Ryanair is also taking legal action against eDreams itself to prevent it from using similar branding.
In a statement, eDreams said: "The case against Google and eDreams has only just been filed so there is little we 
can say beyond the fact that we disagree strongly with Ryanair's position. This action is clearly just another attempt 
from Ryanair to stop online travel agencies from offering consumers the best price and choice when it comes to 
booking flights."
Online airfare fight: Ryanair sues Google over its eDreams nightmare
Load-Date: December 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches legal case against Google and agent for 'misleading' ads Airlines
Ryanair launches legal case against Google and agent for 'misleading' ads; 
Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
December 2, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 23
Length: 474 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Highlight: Carrier takes action over branding for eDreams travel agent's website
Body
Ryanair has launched legal action against Google and online travel agent eDreams in the Irish High Court over 
what it claims are misleading adverts for its flights.
The Irish low-cost airline yesterday said that Google was allowing eDreams to use the "misleading subdomain" 
www.Ryanair.eDreams.com, a website with similar Ryanair branding, to sell tickets at higher prices.
Michael O'Leary , Ryanair chief executive, said the airline would also take legal action in the UK, Spain and Italy.
It comes after it won a case against eDreams in Germany, with a court ordering eDreams to stop using the Ryanair-
branded subdomain.
"We have complained about this to the UK and Irish agencies . . . and written several times to Google ourselves," 
said Mr O'Leary. "We don't have a problem with [Google] selling paid-for adverts, but sell it in a transparent way 
that doesn't mislead customers."
Ryanair said it had received about 2,000 complaints from customers who had booked via the eDreams website over 
the past three months.
Ryanair launches legal case against Google and agent for 'misleading' ads Airlines
The carrier claims that eDreams is misleading consumers by advertising non-existent Ryanair fares.
The low-cost airline said consumers had also been hit by other problems when booking through eDreams, such as 
checked-in bags not being recorded or contact details being omitted. It has registered its complaint with Ireland's 
Competition and Consumer Protection Commission.
Ryanair said it had first noticed the issue 18 months ago, but added it had "mushroomed" in the past year.
A spokesman for eDreams said it disagreed strongly with Ryanair's position. "This action is clearly just another 
attempt from Ryanair to stop online travel agencies from offering consumers the best price and choice when it 
comes to booking flights," it said. Dana Dunne , chief executive at eDreams, is a former chief commercial officer at 
easyJet.
Google declined to comment.
The legal action comes after a bumper summer for Ryanair, which last month posted a 41 per cent rise in second-
quarter net income to EUR843m. It expects full-year profits to be towards the upper end of its forecast of 
EUR1.18bn to EUR1.23bn, thanks to a combination of higher air fares and lower fuel costs.
Following two profit warnings in 2013, Ryanair overhauled its business model , reduced or axed unpopular fees and 
let passengers take a second, smaller item of carry-on baggage.
It is also flying to more primary airports and its website has been upgraded to make it easier to book tickets.
Separately, Mr O'Leary said the airline had ended talks with Aer Lingus and Virgin Atlantic on a potential deal to 
provide transfer connections for long-haul flights. He said the airlines were unable to agree a deal that would ensure 
that Ryanair had no responsibility for missed connections or delays.
However, he said he remained in talks with Norwegian Air Shuttle and Portugal's TAP.
Load-Date: December 1, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa rides out strikes on new flight path Chief executive Carsten Spohr is looking for a step-change in 
efficiency to compete with rivals in Europe and the....
Lufthansa rides out strikes on new flight path; Chief executive Carsten 
Spohr is looking for a step-change in efficiency to compete with rivals in 
Europe and the Gulf
Financial Times (London, England)
December 1, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 812 words
Byline: Jeevan Vasagar in Berlin and Tanya Powley in London
Body
Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel rarely intervenes in labour disputes, but Lufthansa's drawn-out confrontation 
with trade unions has proved a rare exception.
On a visit to Lufthansa's Frankfurt hub last month, Ms Merkel first told jokes about the potato soup offered by its 
catering arm, and then urged "a sensible solution to all internal conflicts".
Tomorrow, management will sit down for talks with the union that represents cabin crew for the first time since 
these employees halted the longest strike in the German airline's 60-year history - seven days - and forcing the 
cancellation of 4,679 flights, or 22 per cent of the total, during November. Management could also meet the union 
that represents pilots, who have also engaged in strikes, but this has not been confirmed.
Industrial action over the past 18 months has periodically crippled Lufthansa, and forms part of wider discord in 
Germany's traditionally consensual labour relations. Railways, postal deliveries and nurseries have all been 
disrupted by strikes this year, leading to comparisons in newspapers with Britain's union militancy of the 1970s.
Lufthansa rides out strikes on new flight path Chief executive Carsten Spohr is looking for a step-change in 
efficiency to compete with rivals in Europe and the....
Lufthansa's strikes are rooted in how management, led by Carsten Spohr , the chief executive, is pushing for a 
step- change in the group's efficiency, so that it can compete more effectively with European low-cost carriers such 
as Ryanair and state-controlled Gulf airlines including Emirates Airline. As well as its German airline, Lufthansa, 
Europe's largest carrier group by revenue, owns Austrian Airlines and Swiss.
Mr Spohr, a Lufthansa veteran who became top manager in May last year, is seeking to streamline the flagship 
airline through two highly contentious measures - expansion inside the group of low-cost carrier Eurowings , and 
reform of the costly pension scheme.
So far, he has shown little appetite to compromise over his transformation strategy, according to Johannes Braun, 
an analyst at Commerzbank. "Longer-term this looks to be the right approach and indeed a necessity if Lufthansa 
ever wants to overcome its inflated legacy cost base," he says.
Indeed, Mr Spohr has at times played tough with the unions. In September, Lufthansa obtained a court ruling that 
halted a pilots' strike on the grounds the action was an improper intervention in the decision to expand Eurowings.
Mr Spohr's determination to secure lasting change is not just based on the competitive threat from fast-growing Gulf 
airlines and European low-cost carriers. Low interest rates caused a large rise in the liabilities at its defined benefit 
pension scheme, helping to push the group to a net loss last year under German accounting rules, and contributing 
to the suspension of its dividend.
Further strikes over pay and benefits have not been ruled out by the Cockpit and UFO unions representing pilots 
and cabin crew respectively, but the aim of the talks with management is to try and finalise collective bargaining 
agreements covering pay and benefits.
Analysts are sceptical about deals being reached this week, although on Saturday Lufthansa did unveil an 
agreement with Verdi, the union that represents 30,000 staff, including those involved in baggage handling, plus 
some cabin crew. Pay for these workers will increase by 2.2 per cent per annum before inflation in 2016 and 2017.
Crucially, a compromise was thrashed out under which new employees will join a defined contribution pension 
scheme, which is expected to be markedly less expensive for Lufthansa than its defined benefit retirement plan. 
Existing workers will stay in a modified version of the defined benefit scheme.
One reason why agreements are proving difficult with unions is Lufthansa's improving financial performance - partly 
due to falling fuel costs.
In October, Lufthansa raised its profit target for 2015, saying it expects to generate between EUR1.75bn and 
EUR1.95bn of adjusted earnings before interest and tax this year, compared to previous guidance of more than 
EUR1.5bn.
Beyond agreeing the collective bargaining agreements, Mr Spohr is busy planning the rollout of Eurowings, the low-
cost carrier that will fly on long as well as short-haul routes. Pilots are concerned that the expansion of Eurowings 
will lead to an erosion of jobs at Lufthansa's flagship brand.
Analysts want Mr Spohr to push ahead where previous management has failed. "Several leaders of Lufthansa have 
gone down the road in the past and they've made some progress but not sufficient progress," says Andrew 
Lobbenberg, an analyst at HSBC.
He points to the creation of Germanwings , Lufthansa's first low- cost carrier, as a good example of how previous 
management did not go far enough.
On her visit to Lufthansa in Frankfurt, Ms Merkel stopped to chat with an apprentice. "Is it fun to work here?" she 
asked him. The answer to that question may be clearer after tomorrow's meetings between management and 
unions.
Lufthansa rides out strikes on new flight path Chief executive Carsten Spohr is looking for a step-change in 
efficiency to compete with rivals in Europe and the....
Load-Date: November 30, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches High Court action against Google and eDreams Ryanair launche...
Ryanair launches High Court action against Google and eDreams; Ryanair 
launche...
Business World (Digest)
December 1, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 171 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched High Court proceedings against both eDreams and Google to stop adverts for 
what it says are "non-existent Ryanair fares via the eDreams website and Google search adverts."
Body
Ryanair has launched High Court proceedings against both eDreams and Google to stop adverts for what it says 
are "non-existent Ryanair fares via the eDreams website and Google search adverts."
Such practises are prohibited by consumer legislation. Ryanair has informed the Competition and Consumer 
Protection Commission of its decision.
Ryanair's CMO Kenny Jacobs said: "This Google/eDreams action is a repeat of a recently successful German court 
ruling which has outlawed eDreams deceptive advertising in Germany.
"This deception and mis-selling has led to a surge of consumer complaints and leaves Ryanair with no choice but to 
take legal action against both Google and eDreams,who continue to use Google search adverts to deceive 
consumers into booking Ryanair flights on the eDreams website atinflated fares. "Both the subdomain eDreams 
uses, and the branding and design it employs on this site, are a deliberate attempt to dupe consumers into thinking 
they are directly booking Ryanair's low fares." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 4, 2015
End of Document
Ireland 's airline industry skills take wing
Ireland's airline industry skills take wing
Financial Times (London, England)
November 30, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: BUSINESS EDUCATION; Pg. 17
Length: 749 words
Byline: Vincent Boland
Highlight: Dublin university to offer unique aviation course, reports Vincent Boland
Body
The international aircraft leasing industry has long been dominated by Irish expertise, and now the University 
College Dublin is hoping to capitalise on that success.
The university's Smurfit Graduate Business School has established Europe's first masters course in aviation 
finance, tapping into the expertise that the industry has built up over the past 20 years.
The question facing the industry now is how to keep growing. Ciaran O'Hogartaigh, the dean of UCD Smurfit, says 
the MSc in aviation finance is as much about looking to the future of the industry as about capitalising on its past.
"The industry is thinking, and we are thinking, about where the next generation of industry leaders is going to come 
from," he says.
As Smurfit prepares to enrol the first students for the programme, which begins in September 2016, the aviation 
finance industry is putting its weight behind the move.
Peter Barrett, chief executive of SMBC Aviation Capital, one of the world's biggest aircraft lessors, says the industry 
is backing the academic institution "not just with hard dollars but with time".
Ireland 's airline industry skills take wing
Mr Barrett acknowledges the debt the industry owes to Irish businessman Tony Ryan, who died eight years ago. Mr 
Ryan is best remembered for co-founding Ryanair, which rose from scrappy beginnings in the cut-price market to 
become one of the world's biggest airlines. His legacy, however, is more significant than that.
As the founder of GPA (Guinness Peat Aviation), the pioneering but ill-fated aircraft leasing company, he laid the 
foundations for an extraordinary Irish success story.
Although GPA no longer exists - its assets were acquired by GE Capital - its alumni have risen to the top of Irish 
business, and they dominate the global aircraft leasing market.
"GPA created a cadre of knowledge and expertise that really became the heart of the aviation leasing industry in 
Dublin," says Mr Barrett. "It was the oak that grew a lot of acorns. The tree is dead, but the acorns are flourishing."
Mr Barrett is one of those acorns. So is Domhnal Slattery, founder and chief executive of Avolon, the lessor that 
was acquired for $2.5bn a few weeks ago by Bohai Leasing, a unit of the Chinese conglomerate HNA.
Both Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, and Denis O'Brien, the telecoms tycoon who is Ireland's richest 
man, started their business careers at GPA as personal assistants to Ryan.
The Smurfit school expects the next generation of industry leaders to come from abroad as well as from Ireland. 
About 40 per cent of the students enrolled for the first year are international, says Don Bredin, who chairs banking 
and finance at UCD.
The course has been marketed heavily both in Ireland and internationally.
It is designed "to service the industry and to develop the academic space it has created," Prof Bredin says.
Subjects will include the analysis of the parties on both sides of the leasing agreement - the company that owns the 
aircraft and the airline that uses it. Other topics include taxation and law, risk assessment, aircraft valuation and 
insurance.
The course will run for six months, with the final third of the programme ending in placements for the students. It is 
being backed by some of the industry's main operators, including SMBC, Avolon, Safran, and KPMG, and a senior 
industry figure is expected to be named as chair for the course.
Prof O'Hogartaigh says the development of the MSc in aviation finance is part of the school's push for a higher 
international profile.
One way of achieving this, he says, is "to pick an academic area that plays to Ireland's strengths".
Students who graduate will work for companies with large balance sheets, and "can expect to be very well paid".
Ryan, who made two fortunes and lost one of them, would love that.
Aircraft leasing
One in five passenger aeroplanes are owned by aircraft leasing companies operating out of Ireland. Airlines lease 
about 40 per cent of their combined global fleet, and half the world's leased aircraft are supplied to airlines by those 
Irish companies.
The way the Irish tax system treats depreciation is one reason why the aircraft leasing industry has made Dublin its 
home. As well as that, the country's 12.5 per cent corporate tax rate is one of the lowest in Europe.
Ireland has double taxation treaties with many countries. It also has a certain expertise in technical services to the 
airline industry and a nexus of professional services in law and accounting that has grown up around the aircraft 
leasing sector.
Ireland 's airline industry skills take wing
Load-Date: November 29, 2015
End of Document
Michael Murray: Interesting recovery stocks on offer in London
Michael Murray: Interesting recovery stocks on offer in London
Sunday Business Post
November 29, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1268 words
Byline: Michael Murray
Highlight: Recovery stocks for 2016 are scarce in the Irish market
Body
It is testimony to the strength of Irish management teams that when you go through the list of Irish companies listed 
on the Dublin and London stock exchanges there are precious few that offer strong recovery prospects over the 
next financial year from a very low base. 
That is because we now have so many Irish stars listed on one or both of those markets that have performed so 
outstandingly over the past five to ten years that they have beaten the aggregate shareholder returns of all their 
peers on the major British and eurozone stock markets over that period. 
Paddy Power has been the best-performing bookie; Ryanair has been the best-performing airline; DCC has been 
the best-performing distributor; Kerry Group has been the best-performing ingredients and flavours group; and 
Greencore has been the best-performing food-to-go business. 
Of course, the relative success of these companies is due almost entirely to the success of their international 
operations, but that success required strong strategic and operational management teams - something which all of 
those companies have in spades. 
As to our more cycle-sensitive listed companies such as CRH, Smurfit Kappa and Grafton, all three have enjoyed 
strong cycle-linked recoveries in their share prices in the past year, but they have not enjoyed the scale of growth 
experienced by others over the medium term. 
Looking at the rest of the listed Irish companies, the banks should be recovery plays in 2016, but until AIB's share 
capital is restructured it is not sensibly investible. 
Bank of Ireland has seen some progress on its share price over the past 12 months, but despite the mortgage 
restrictions imposed by the Central Bank, with a 5 per cent economic growth rate in Ireland next year and continued 
growth in Britain overall, business volumes in most segments should rise at a decent clip, and any additional bad-
debt provisions should be modest. Therefore, in the absence of a macroeconomic disappointment, some further 
Michael Murray: Interesting recovery stocks on offer in London
upside in its share price looks promising, but it is unlikely to be dramatic given the regulatory constraints and capital 
requirements. 
Caution on the banking sector generally is justified by a reality that is inescapable: winning - or holding market 
share - through differentiation in the sector has historically been overwhelmingly about using the tools of either price 
or risk to do so. Technology, brand, distribution, sales technique, and product design will continue to help - but at 
the margin. 
On the core lending products (especially mortgages, be they residential or commercial) the key differentiators that 
drive sales are price competitiveness and risk appetite. Commercial and residential mortgages make up more than 
half of our banks' balance sheets with the regulator controlling the risk appetite. That's why buy and hold the Irish 
banks is not for me. Buy and trade occasionally is, and that is what I will probably do in the case of Bank of Ireland, 
leading into 2016. 
As the year-end approaches I am conscious of having an overall portfolio that is quite cyclically defensive. But with 
some stellar performers - including DCC, Kerry, UDG and Greencore - the rest have been mainly long-term 'steady 
Eddies' such as Colgate Palmolive, Diageo, and Nestlé. For that reason, as with a cooking recipe, I am now 
tempted to add, in small quantities, a bit of spice to the mix and that is what I spent some time searching for last 
week. 
One share I looked at with a view to a possible purchase in the next 12 months was the British-based outsourcing 
group Serco. It is a company that is slowly getting up off its knees after it was hit hard by an overcharging scandal 
in 2013. 
The reputational damage for the company was significant, resulting in the loss of several contracts and non-renewal 
of others. However, a new management team with a strong track record has been installed and has been working 
relentlessly - and with some success - to recover lost ground. 
Serco is a challenging company to assess. It has been involved in a highly diverse range of outsourcing activities 
for both governments and businesses in many different parts of the world. It's a tough business, loaded with 
industry, reputational, and operational risks. 
The span of its activities (both geographic and by segment); the labour intensity of some of its contracts; and the 
complexity of others; almost guaranteed a scandal or a crisis at some stage. 
However, in the wake of that scandal and a rescue heavily discounted one-for-one rights issue, the shares fell by 80 
per cent from their peak in what appears a disproportionate response for a material - but not an irreversible - 
setback. 
With the rights issue and the (EURO)250 million proceeds from disposal of its offshore business processing 
outsourcing division - anticipated at the end of 2015 - the company's capital base should be restored to health, with 
its debt falling to around one times' gross annual cashflow. These levels should facilitate future acquisitions and 
growth and leave Serco in a spot where it has a fighting chance of a strong recovery, taking a two- to three-year 
view from here. 
The new chief executive and finance director have come from the same positions at plant hire group Aggreko, and 
delivered sparkling results during their time there. The revised strategy they have announced at Serco is more 
focused on public services, including the defence, local government and transport sectors. 
The 'kitchen sinking' of provisions by the new finance director against onerous contracts inherited from the previous 
regime was a comprehensive exercise, and, combined with the rights issue and disposals, strong financial 
foundations have been laid for driving a decent recovery in the now more focused business over the medium-term. 
After the scandals broke, the company recruited Rupert Soames as chief executive. Soames is Eton and Oxford 
educated and is the grandson of Winston Churchill - and brother of the former British defence secretary Nicholas 
Michael Murray: Interesting recovery stocks on offer in London
Soames. After a comprehensive review of Serco's business, Soames outlined his new strategy for the group, which 
involved ceasing to be 'all things to all men' and instead concentrated on business to government (B2G) 
contracting, dropping private sector contracts as soon as they could be terminated or sold. 
As a result, Serco is now a more cost-efficient, focused, and better operationally managed group, with the dirt 
cleaned out of the stable and a firmer financial base from which to rebuild. 
I don't believe that a strong share price recovery in the company is likely in the near term although a modest one 
has begun. 
But over the medium-term, I believe that with a much strengthened contract tendering and disciplined pricing 
procedure, a substantial rationalisation of the cost base which has now been executed, and the roll-off of old, less 
profitable contracts against which the new finance director has made substantial onerous contract provisions, 
should combine to facilitate the return of the company to a level of profitability that should see its share price motor 
strongly from current levels. 
I have earmarked a modest investment in the company for 2016, but I don't expect serious upside until 2017 or 
2018. Nor will I be surprised if my expectations of the management team are not met. It is a tough business where 
operational risk is high and competition is intense. 
But the management team has form, it has made substantial onerous contract provisions in respect of legacy 
contracts - getting the bad news out of the way upfront - and substantially strengthened the balance sheet.
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
German Airline Lufthansa Agrees To Wage Hike
German Airline Lufthansa Agrees To Wage Hike
International Business Times News
November 29, 2015 Sunday 9:38 AM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 396 words
Byline: Aditya Kondalamahanty
Body
Nov 29, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> German 
airline company Deutsche Lufthansa AG reportedly reached an agreement with trade union Verdi Saturday, to 
increase wages along with a one-time payment of 2,250 euros ($2,383.3) to about 30,000 ground staff. 
The airline also announced that it would ensure all workers receive their employer-funded pension plans.<nl/> 
Lufthansa agreed[1] to increase the wages of its workers at Lufthansa-Systems, Lufthansa-Service GmbH, 
Lufthansa Technik and Lufthansa Cargo by 2.2 percent on Jan. 1, 2016, while all its employees will receive the one-
time payment. Trainees with the airlines will receive 600 euros ($635.6), according to reports.<nl/> Germany's 
largest carrier, which has been buffeted by competition[2] from Persian Gulf-based carriers on its long-haul routes, 
was affected by a seven-day strike earlier this month[3] -- the longest in the company's history -- which saw some 
4,600 flights cancelled, affecting about half a million passengers. The clash between the airline and its employees 
comes as the company tries to rebrand its Eurowings division into a low-cost carrier, to compete with rivals like 
Ryanair Holdings Plc and easyJet Plc.<nl/> Saturday's agreement, however, does not signal an end to Lufthansa's 
labor woes as the airline is embroiled in separate disputes with pilot and cabin staff unions.<nl/> Lufthansa is yet 
reach an accord over retirement benefits with the Independent Flight Attendant's Organization (UFO), a union 
of cabin crew members. Earlier this week the UFO called off a planned strike after the two sides agreed on certain 
points on how to resolve a long-simmering dispute over early retirement plans.<nl/> Lufthansa has invited all major 
unions representing its staff to a summit to discuss labor issues on Dec. 2, and the UFO has reportedly[4] deferred 
its 
strikes 
until 
after 
the 
meeting.<nl/> 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.livemint.com/Companies/hHN03XGyHO1qDiDwQ6KnjN/Lufthansa-wage-accord-for-30000-ground-
staff.html [ 2]:            http://www.wsj.com/articles/lufthansa-signs-pay-deal-with-33-000-personnel-1448727298 [ 3]:       
  
 
 
 
http://www.ibtimes.com/lufthansa-cancels-941-flights-amid-cabin-crew-strike-nearly-110000-passengers-
2183017 [ 4]:            http://www.wsj.com/articles/lufthansa-cabin-crew-call-off-strike-1448443721 
Load-Date: November 29, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to reach 100 million passengers this year
Ryanair to reach 100 million passengers this year
Sunday Business Post
November 29, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 578 words
Byline: Fearghal O'Connor
Highlight: Huge uplift in passenger growth
Body
Ryanair will come tantalisingly close to bursting through the 100 million passenger barrier when it releases traffic 
figures this week. 
The airline's chief executive Michael O'Leary has long targeted 100 million passengers in a year, and had 
previously predicted that Ryanair would reach the figure in 2012 after it lodged a massive order for 300 Boeing 
737s.  
A slowdown in growth and a series of profit warnings followed as travellers lost patience with the ultra low cost 
model and the airline's belligerently negative approach to customer service. 
But Ryanair's reinvention over the past two years as a friendlier, more customer focused carrier, as well as ongoing 
expansion of its fleet and routes, has seen a huge uplift in passenger growth and it is now on the cusp of hitting the 
100 million milestone. 
In recent weeks the airline announced its numbers had grown strongly in October, up 15 per cent, bringing its rolling 
annual figure to 98.6 million passengers in the previous 12 months. Further strong growth this month will push the 
rolling annual figure close to or past 100 million passengers over the past 12 months. 
To hit that mark, Ryanair will need to carry 1.4 million more customers this month than the 6.35 million passengers 
it carried in November 2014, an increase of 22 per cent, according to analysis by this newspaper. It is likely to be a 
close-run thing. Ryanair's average monthly increase over the past 12 months has been around 19 per cent and in 
November 2014 it posted 22 per cent growth, which started a run of booming passenger growth numbers that has 
not let up since. This time last year, Ryanair's rolling annual passenger figure was just over 85 million and Ryanair 
had raised its full year traffic guidance to just over 90 million customers. But passenger growth this summer was 
close to 30 per cent each month, meaning the rolling annual figure has risen rapidly ever since. 
Ryanair to reach 100 million passengers this year
The terrorist attacks in Paris two weeks ago and the security alert in Brussels are likely to have hit bookings badly 
this month. The situation has led to "no shows" on Ryanair flights to France, it is understood. Other airlines admitted 
seeing falling demand for travel to France in the wake of the attacks, which is also likely to have impacted Ryanair. 
But the Irish airline is also understood to have seen strong bookings to France for next summer, following the 
qualification of both Ireland and the North for Euro 2016.   
Ireland has been a major beneficiary of Ryanair's rejuvenation, with year-on-year traffic growth at Irish airports for 
the first nine months rising by 2.5 million to 22.9 million.  
Some 70 per cent of this increase was accounted for by Ryanair, according to the airline.New figures from aviation 
analysis provider Anna Aero underline the airline's huge ongoing growth. It compared Ryanair's schedule for the 
first week of February in 2016 to the same week in 2015, and found that the carrier had added an extra 96 weekly 
departures out of Ireland.  
But that still only makes Ireland Ryanair's sixth-fastest originating country, according to the Anna Aero figures. Top 
of the pile is Germany with 251 extra weekly flights, a jump of 64 per cent, largely driven by its new base in Berlin 
Schönefeld.  
A spokesman for Ryanair declined to comment on the possibility that the airline will hit the 100 million milestone this 
month, saying that all information on passenger numbers would be announced to the stock market in due course. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Lufthansa reaches deal with union representing ground staff
Lufthansa reaches deal with union representing ground staff
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 28, 2015 Saturday 5:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Body
       By Sebastian Raabe, dpa   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Lufthansa reached a deal with a union representing the 
airline's ground staff on Saturday, ending one of several pay and pension disputes that have caused frequent 
disruptions for travellers this year.  A statement from the Verdi union said that the German air carrier's 33,000 
ground personnel would receive a lump sum payment of 2,250 euros (2,400 dollars) if they worked between April 
and December 2015.  The employees will also receive a 2.2 per cent pay rise for each of the next two years. 
 Changes to employees' retirement benefits have also been a key sticking point in the negotiations.  The union said 
Lufthansa agreed that recent and future hires will receive the same pension scheme as long-time employees. 
However, all employees must now contribute 1 per cent of their salary to their plan while the company will put in 5.2 
per cent.  Faced with increased competition from rivals such as EasyJet and Ryanair, Lufthansa has been on a 
drive to reduce its costs by cutting jobs and benefits, as well as merging its two lost-cost carriers - Eurowings and 
Germanwings - under the single Eurowings brand.  Lufthansa also faced industrial action from pilots and cabin crew 
this year. The seven-day cabin crew walk-off earlier this month was the longest in the company's history and led to 
the cancellation of 4,700 flights.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 28, 2015
End of Document
Boeing delivers new 737-800 aircraft to Ryanair
Boeing delivers new 737-800 aircraft to Ryanair
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 27, 2015 Friday 11:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: CIVIL PROJECTS; Automotive, Transport and Logistics
Length: 225 words
Highlight: The Boeing Company has announced the delivery of 375th 737-800 aircraft to Ryanair Ltd., an airline 
company.
Body
Ryanair is the largest Next Generation 737-800 customer in the world having ordered more than 530 of the airplane 
type. "As Europe's largest airline, the reliability and customer appeal of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft has been the 
cornerstone of our successful growth over the last 16 years and we are proud to take delivery of our 375th Boeing 
737-800 aircraft today," said Mick Hickey, Ryanair's Chief Operations Officer. 
"Our current and future Boeing orders will allow us to grow our fleet to over 540 all-Boeing aircraft, which will see 
our traffic double from 91 million annual customers last year to 180 million per annum by 2024." "A key component 
of Ryanair's success has been the safe, reliable and economic performance of the Next-Generation 737-800," said 
Todd Nelp, vice president of European Sales, Boeing Commercial Airplanes. "We are honored by Ryanair's 
continued confidence in our products as we celebrate this significant milestone in our shared history." Ryanair is 
also the launch customer of the 737 MAX 200, the newest member of the 737 MAX family, ordering 100 airplanes in 
2014. A variant based on the successful 737 MAX 8, the 737 MAX 200 can accommodate up to 200 seats, 
increasing revenue potential and providing customers up to 20 percent better fuel efficiency per seat than today's 
most efficient single-aisle airplanes.
Load-Date: December 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces five-year pay deal Ryanair announc...
Ryanair announces five-year pay deal; Ryanair announc...
Business World (Digest)
November 26, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 136 words
Highlight: Davy Stockbrokers have today reported that Ryanair has reached a five-year pay deal with all of its 76 
pilot bases and two largest cabin crew bases (Dublin and Stansted).
Body
Davy Stockbrokers have today reported that Ryanair has reached a five-year pay deal with all of its 76 pilot bases 
and two largest cabin crew bases (Dublin and Stansted).
This stands in contrast to some of the European airlines such as Lufthansa and Air France - Lufthansa cabin crew 
unions called off a strike for the end of the week (it cancelled almost 5,000 flights during a week-long walkout by 
flight attendants earlier this month).
According to Davy Stockbrokers, "This should ensure growth and industrial relations stability at the airline for the 
rest of the decade - in sharp contrast to other airlines. The cabin crew deal includes more promotional opportunities, 
underlining Ryanair's position as a growth airline as it embarks on an eight-year, 400-aircraft acquisition 
programme."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 1, 2015
End of Document
Manchester aims to ease flights pressure Transport: Passenger landmark
Manchester aims to ease flights pressure; Transport: Passenger landmark
Financial Times (London, England)
November 23, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 756 words
Byline: Andrew Bounds, North of England correspondent
Highlight: North-west airport with two runways looks to capitalise on lack of capacity in south-east
Body
Manchester airport, the UK's third busiest, says it can relieve pressure on London's hubs as its annual passenger 
traffic reaches a 77-year high of 23m.
The landmark is hit today as the airline industry continues to recover from the financial crisis that began in 2008.
Other UK airports such as Birmingham and Edinburgh have also hit record levels, while Manchester has been 
boosted by extra services to destinations such as Dubai and new routes to the US and Asia.
Ken O'Toole , managing director, believes it could provide an alternative to London as political stalemate continues 
over whether to build a new runway at Heathrow, Gatwick or not at all.
"For 15 to 20 years there is going to be no capacity increase in the south-east. We are going to have to make best 
use of the capacity we have," he said.
Some 22m live within two hours of the airport and its station has been upgraded recently. Faster rail links to the 
north of Manchester are coming as part of the £600m Northern Hub improvements.
Manchester is the only airport outside Heathrow with two runways and it serves more destinations at 210.
Manchester aims to ease flights pressure Transport: Passenger landmark
But some 4m passengers a year leave its catchment area to use London airports and Heathrow remains its single 
most popular destination.
Heathrow serves 180 destinations in 90 countries, 75 of which are unique in the UK. Two-thirds of the top UK 
companies have headquarters within 25 miles of the airport, providing demand for lucrative business class flights.
Dubai is the most popular destination from Manchester with 846,000 passengers. Dublin is second.
Manchester recently announced it would be the first UK airport outside London to have a scheduled flight to Beijing, 
starting next year. Birmingham has a summer charter to the Chinese capital.
Now Air China has filed for permission to fly to Shanghai. Cathay Pacific's four-times-a-week service to Hong Kong 
could soon be daily, it said, as it was 90 per cent full.
Mr O'Toole said much of the growth was thanks to low-cost carriers such as Ryanair and easyJet, but a rising 
number of long-haul flights had also helped.
"Our view is that the future potential of Manchester airport is really strong. You can start to see a real momentum 
and drive to continue to grow and serve the 22m people that live within two hours of the airport and see Manchester 
as their airport."
He said several more routes would be viable if travel times around the north improved as part of the government's 
northern powerhouse scheme.
"If we can combine the volume from Liverpool, Leeds, Manchester and Newcastle you get to a tipping point where 
routes become viable." He said San Francisco, Dallas, Bangkok and Mumbai could all be possible in a few years.
Manchester, still majority owned by the region's 10 local councils, is starting services to Los Angeles and Boston 
next year with Thomas Cook.
It is also spending £1bn to improve facilities. Its three terminals will be reduced to two with greater shopping and 
leisure space. The new configuration will allow two giant A380s, used by Emirates, to pass each other.
Passengers are growing at 5 per cent a year after a low of 17m after the recession. Other regional airports are 
growing even more quickly. Data compiled by the Centre for Aviation, a consultancy, show that in the year to 
October, Glasgow grew by 13.7 per cent and Edinburgh 9.1 per cent to hit 10m passengers.
David Bentley, an analyst at the centre, said Manchester's growth was below its peers. "There just isn't the volume 
of first-class business travellers. We will know it is really working when British Airways comes back," he said.
Manchester Airports Group grabbed a slice of the south-east market by buying Stansted in 2013. The Essex airport 
is growing 15 per cent a year as Ryanair expands, hitting 20m passengers. MAG sold a 35.5 per cent stake in the 
combined group to IFM Investors, an Australian infrastructure fund, to support the acquisition.
The Airport Commission, chaired by Sir Howard Davies, forecast Manchester would have 26m passengers annually 
by 2020, with 33m by 2030.
The numbers 
UK's regional airports increase their reach
23m passengers Manchester airport, above, has carried so far this year, up from 18m in 2010.
5 per cent annual growth in passengers at Manchester. Glasgow grew by 13.7 per cent and Edinburgh 9.1 per cent 
to hit 10m passengers.
210 destinations now served by Manchester airport. Heathrow serves 180 destinations.
Manchester aims to ease flights pressure Transport: Passenger landmark
846,000 passengers flying to Dubai from Manchester, the airport's most popular foreign destination. The second is 
Dublin with 834,562 trips.
Load-Date: November 22, 2015
End of Document
Fewer stunts, more strategy
Fewer stunts, more strategy
Sunday Business Post
November 22, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 955 words
Byline: Colette Sexton
Highlight: Ryanair's marketing supremo Kenny Jacobs is bringing in a softer image and a stronger focus on digital 
for the airline
Body
It's been two years since Ryanair revamped its focus on all things digital, and already its marketing team sees a 
future where the low-cost airline stops using traditional advertising channels altogether. 
"I can see a model where we don't need to advertise in traditional ways in ten years' time if we do a great job 
digitally," said Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer. 
The website gets more than ten million visits each week, and 90 per cent of those visits are direct, making it 
Ryanair's biggest marketing asset, he said. 
Ryanair has a 15 per cent share of the European air travel market. That scale, and its level of brand awareness, 
gives it more possibilities to accelerate the use of digital-only marketing, according to Jacobs. 
"We could end up with a very different marketing model to our competitors or most traditional businesses our size," 
he said. 
Jacobs joined Ryanair in January 2014, and the company has undergone mammoth changes since. 
It has moved head office, updated its website, introduced apps, created Ryanair Labs, and the biggest change of all 
was that the airline that everyone loved to hate became friendly. 
"It has been a good balance of keeping the baby with the bathwater," Jacobs said, observing that a lot of 
businesses throw the good out with the bad when going through a transformation. But Ryanair kept some elements 
of itself - such as low fares and the "Sex Pistols attitude". 
Fewer stunts, more strategy
Ryanair's previous marketing strategy of gaining earned media, usually through some sort of stunt by its quirky 
chief executive Michael O'Leary, was fantastic, Jacobs said, but now that it is operating in 31 markets it needs a 
blend of paid and earned media. 
He described the PR approach of gaining earned method as "the seven-iron of the business, but now it has a full 
set of clubs". 
When asked if he had to rein in Michael O'Leary, he said "Michael reined himself in. He had a big ambition for 
change and he loves the changes that we made." 
Jacobs said O'Leary had less time to do the PR stunts because his chief executive role had become more 
demanding as the company had grown. 
"It's great letting the genie out of the bottle every now and then. He is a very authentic and outspoken chief 
executive," said Jacob. 
"A lot of chief executives have become vanilla. When you have someone that has his breadth of experience and 
calls it like it is, it is a pity that more chief executives aren't like that." 
Ryanair's annual marketing budget is more than (EURO)30 million, with the biggest chunk going on digital. 
In relation to the business, which this year will deliver over (EURO)2 billion in profit, the marketing budget ties into 
Ryanair's overall low cost option, Jacobs said. 
The most important change he has made at Ryanair was the way the company has embraced digital. 
"We've become innovators," said Jacobs. "We don't just look at what other airlines do, we look at what Amazon 
does, what Google does, what other retailers do. 
"We're taking a broad lens at what good looks like for us, and the way we harness digital to acquire, convert and 
maintain more customers." 
The entire Ryanair digital experience has been re-platformed onto a new front-end which is fully integrated with 
desktop and mobile. The company expects that more than 50 per cent of its visits will come from mobile and tablet 
next year. 
This new experience includes MyRyanair, an individual profile for each customer. If a customer searches on their 
phone for a flight and continues the booking on their laptop, Ryanair will know it is the same customer. 
This will allow Ryanair to personalise its email marketing, to ensure customers get contacted about the most 
appropriate flights deals, but also about car, train and hotel offers. 
Airlines are not good at selling anything other than flights, according to Jacobs, but Ryanair's new digital system will 
allow it to eliminate its customers' need to use third-party online travel agencies (OTA). 
"OTAs exist because airlines and travel companies haven't done a good job at digital. I predict that in the coming 
five years, as airlines start to embrace digital, half the OTAs that exist today will not exist." 
Last year, Ryanair chose London-based Dare as its first external advertising agency in two decades. 
Jacobs said he was not convinced that a Dublin-based agency could communicate to 31 different markets around 
Europe. 
"There aren't too many businesses who are saying that all of their ads are made in Dublin for the pan-European 
market," he said. 
"Using a Dublin-based agency and the communications being a bit Irish in the tone would have been a bit obvious." 
Fewer stunts, more strategy
When asked if Ryanair was going out to pitch in the next year, he said: "As a cost conscious business, we want to 
make sure we get the best deal and we want to keep it fresh." 
If an Irish agency wanted to win the Ryanair account the next time it was up for grabs, said Jacobs, it would have to 
have great ideas that can be communicated from Dublin to Bucharest. He said it would also be fully integrated and 
have a low-cost approach. 
"Creative agencies have to think beyond TV. Still too often, they show you the TV ad, and the print ads and 
everything else will follow from that, but now you can have great campaigns that don't have to be on TV," he said. 
Content, social and PR - and how PR is connected to content and social - will be the biggest areas in marketing in 
the next few years, he said, adding that a lot of marketing has not moved on. 
All of the mainstream supermarkets were still taking the same newspaper ads for the past decade, Jacobs said. 
"The supermarkets ads still look the same, they're even on the same page number. Why won't anyone break ranks 
and do something different?" he said. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair to launch European routes from Newquay airport
Ryanair to launch European routes from Newquay airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 19, 2015 Thursday 3:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 250 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched flights from Newquay Airport, with two European routes to Alicante and Frankfurt 
Hahn, starting from April 2016.
Body
Both routes will operate twice weekly, deliver 35,000 customers p.a. at Newquay Airport, Ryanair's 17th UK 
destination. UK consumers and visitors can choose from these twice weekly flights next summer and can look 
forward to more customer improvements, as we continue Year 2 of our "Always Getting Better" programme, which 
includes a new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms and improved inflight menus. 
In Newquay, Ryanair's Head of Sales & Marketing, Carol Anne O'Neill said: "We are pleased to announce 2 new 
routes from Newquay to Alicante and Frankfurt Hahn, starting in April 2016, which will operate twice weekly and 
deliver 35,000 customers p.a. at Newquay Airport, our newest UK destination. "UK consumers already choose 
Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. Now they can also book their 
flights even earlier on our improved website and great new app, carry a free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated 
seats, avail of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their personal electronic devices at all 
stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares. "To celebrate our new 
routes from Newquay to Alicante and Frankfurt Hahn, we are releasing seats for sale from just GBP25.99, which 
are available for booking until midnight Monday (30 Nov). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up 
quickly, customers should log onto ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: November 25, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces new base in Ibiza
Ryanair announces new base in Ibiza
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 19, 2015 Thursday 3:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 191 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced it will open a new base at Ibiza, its number 76, from March 2016.
Body
The new base will commence operating with one based aircraft, two new routes to Turin and Venice Treviso, and 
extra flights to a further 10 European destinations. These changes are expected to deliver 350,000 new customers 
per year and support 1,400 on-site jobs, as Ryanair's Ibiza traffic grows by 25%. In Ibiza, Ryanair's Jose Espartero 
said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce that we will open a new Ibiza base from March, our 13th in Spain, with one 
based aircraft and 25 routes, including 2 new routes to Turin and Venice Treviso, which will deliver 1.8m customers 
p.a. in total and support 1,400 jobs at Ibiza Airport as we grow by 25%. "As Spain's No.1 airline we are pleased to 
add another base airport to our network, which will allow us to offer improved schedules on domestic services, 
making Ryanair the ideal choice for both business and leisure customers. "To celebrate our new Ibiza base we are 
releasing seats for sale at prices starting from just 19.99 for travel from May, which must be booked by Monday (2 
Nov). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto ryanair.com and avoid 
missing out."
Load-Date: November 25, 2015
End of Document
EasyJet profits soar on bumper season Airlines
EasyJet profits soar on bumper season; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
November 18, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 505 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet said the recent terrorist attacks in France and Egypt would have a limited impact on business this year, as 
the low-cost airline posted an 18 per cent jump in full-year pre-tax profit on the back of a bumper summer.
Carolyn McCall , chief executive, said the British budget airline had seen a "cooling off" in demand after the Paris 
attack on Friday, but she expected it would only have a short-term impact.
She estimated that the suspension of easyJet's flights to Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt over concerns that the Russian 
jet crash was caused by a bomb would amount to less than a £10m hit in the first half of its 2016 financial year. 
EasyJet has spent the past 10 days sending empty aircraft to the Red Sea resort to bring back 4,500 customers.
"If you took a worse-case scenario that we didn't fly in this half to Sharm el-Sheikh . . . it would be a small effect on 
our contribution. It's a popular winter sun destination but it's actually 0.5 per cent of our network," said Ms McCall.
The comments come as easyJet reported a pre-tax profit of £686m in the year ending September 30, up 18 per 
cent from £581m in 2014, helping to offset a tough year for the airline that included strikes in France and fires at 
one of its airports.
This represents another year of record earnings for easyJet and is in the middle of upgraded guidance of £675m-
£700m made two months ago.
EasyJet profits soar on bumper season Airlines
Revenues at the airline rose 3.5 per cent to £4.69bn, up from £4.53bn. Revenue per seat rose 1.5 per cent to 
£64.28 on a constant currency basis, while passenger numbers rose 6 per cent to 68.6m.
EasyJet signalled its confidence in the future by announcing plans to buy an additional 36 aircraft from Airbus, 
which will be delivered between 2018-21. It also raised its dividend by almost 22 per cent to 55.2p.
The airline is predicting passenger growth of 7 per cent in 2016. Analysts are forecasting full-year pre-tax profits for 
2016 of about £737m, which easyJet said it was comfortable with.
Ms McCall dismissed talk from rival Ryanair that there would be a "fare war" this winter. "You might get some fare 
skirmishes . . . on certain routes in certain markets," she said.
EasyJet's fifth year of record profits came in spite of mixed fortunes and some exceptional costs. In May its shares 
fell after it warned that disruption from French air traffic control strikes would weigh on full-year profit. At the time it 
said the strikes, which caused about 600 flight cancellations in April, would knock about £25m off the pre-tax total. 
The airline has also suffered disruptions because of two fires at Rome Fiumicino airport.
Cost per seat at constant currency excluding fuel increased by 3.6 per cent. EasyJet said this was down to 
regulated airport price increases, higher de-icing costs and significant disruption costs.
Buoyant summer demand and low fuel prices helped offset these costs. Even legacy carriers such as Lufthansa 
and Air France-KLM that have been hit by strikes have posted better than expected results thanks to strong 
summer bookings.
See Lex
Load-Date: November 17, 2015
End of Document
EasyJet: on easy street
EasyJet: on easy street
Financial Times (London, England)
November 18, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 14
Length: 332 words
Body
When an airline trumpets record profits , lifts its dividend by a fifth and says it will buy $3.2bn of new aircraft, alarm 
bells start ringing. Loudly. The industry habitually adds capacity in the good times, only to end up flying half-empty 
planes at a loss when consumers are squeezed. EasyJet insists that this pattern has finally been broken. 
Surprisingly, in the next few years, they are likely to be right.
The first reason is fuel. Hedging has blunted the immediate benefit of sharply lower jet fuel prices but the flip side is 
that the benefit will become more pronounced in the current fiscal year (which began in September). EasyJet has 
already locked in prices for over 80 per cent of the year's fuel purchases. It expects its fuel bill to fall by £160m as a 
result, from $1.2bn last year. Passengers will reap some benefit in the form of lower ticket prices, but overall per-
seat costs will still drop if planes remain as full as they are now. The airline continues to chisel away at non-fuel 
costs, too.
Cheaper fuel helps legacy carriers too, but their withdrawal from many short-haul routes is set to continue. Their 
cost structures, including big pension liabilities, make short-haul uneconomic . Some have started low-cost 
subsidiaries, but they are subscale. The fleets of Lufthansa's Eurowings and IAG's Vueling combined are half the 
size of easyJet's.
Shares in easyJet and rival Ryanair have soundly beaten the FTSE 100 over the past five years. That has largely 
been down to growth, not multiple expansion, suggesting the market is reserving judgment on whether this time 
really is different. That might be the right call. EasyJet is well managed and disciplined, but by 2020, its fleet is likely 
to be larger by two-fifths. It will not be alone: based on forecasts from Boeing and Airbus, over the next 20 years 
EasyJet: on easy street
about 5,400 single-aisle aircraft will be delivered to European carriers. Only half will be replacing existing planes. 
The good times will last, but not forever.
Load-Date: November 17, 2015
End of Document
Flying high: EasyJet sees profit rise 18% to £686m
Flying high: EasyJet sees profit rise 18% to £686m
Financial Times (London, England)
November 18, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 15
Length: 185 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Low-cost airline easyJet said it expected only a short-term impact on business this year from the terrorist attacks in 
France and Egypt, as it reported an 18 per cent rise in full-year profits to £686m, writes Tanya Powley, Transport 
Correspondent.
Carolyn McCall, chief executive, estimated that the recent suspension of easyJet flights to Sharm el-Sheikh in 
Egypt would amount to less than a £10m hit in the first half of its 2016 financial year.
"It's a popular winter sun destination but it's actually 0.5 per cent of our network," she said.
Analysts expect full-year pre-tax profits for 2016 of about £737m, which easyJet said it was comfortable with. It 
underlined its confidence by announcing plans to buy a further 36 Airbus aircraft and raised its dividend by almost 
22 per cent to 55.2p.
Revenues at the airline, which last week celebrated its 20th anniversary, rose 3.5 per cent to £4.69bn, while 
passenger numbers rose 6 per cent to 68.6m.
Ms McCall dismissed talk from rival Ryanair of a "fare war" this winter. "You might get some fare skirmishes . . . on 
certain routes in certain markets."
Report page 21
Flying high: EasyJet sees profit rise 18% to £686m
Load-Date: November 17, 2015
End of Document
'Buy now' Beckett eyes online 'land grab' opportunity
'Buy now' Beckett eyes online 'land grab' opportunity
Sunday Business Post
November 15, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 607 words
Byline: Tom Lyons
Highlight: Beckett: "We are doing seven figures in revenue and growing by 300 per cent a year"
Body
John Beckett, the chief executive and co-founder of e-commerce company ChannelSight laughed when asked 
about Ryanair. At 17, while still in St Andrew's school in Blackrock, Beckett and a friend built the low fares airline a 
website.
"It was half my life ago but I'm still talking about it in interviews!" Beckett, 34, said. "Remember this was 1999  . . . it 
was a world away from where we are now. What we built worked and was cutting-edge at the time." 
Beckett was paid (EURO)20,000 by Ryanair for the site which went on to be used by millions of Europeans. "I was 
in school and delighted with the payday!" he recalled. "Ryanair launched my career." 
Almost two decades later, Beckett wants to talk about his latest venture. ChannelSight raised (EURO)3.3 million 
last month from Barcelona-based early stage venture firm Nauta Capital, as well as Dublin's ACT Venture Capital. 
Beckett co-founded the business with Kieran Dundon and Niall O'Gorman in March 2013. The company helps 
brands sell more online through using "buy now" buttons by directing online shoppers to the right partner retailer 
where they can make their purchase. 
O'Gorman had the initial idea for the business before asking Beckett and Dundon to build it out. After a five-month 
pitching process, their company had its first client: Philips, the consumer goods giant. Today it has Siemens, Bosch, 
Cadbury and Oreo in its growing portfolio of clients. 
"We are doing seven figures in revenue and growing by 300 per cent a year," Beckett said. "We have really 
aggressive targets, but there is a land grab opportunity here." 
Beckett said that all big brands were interested in developing 'buy now' buttons, but said ChannelSight's product 
was scalable across hundreds of thousands of retailers. "That is the nut we've cracked," he said. "It is going to be a 
really exciting couple of years." 
'Buy now' Beckett eyes online 'land grab' opportunity
ChannelSight, he said, helped convert online interest in brands into sales. "We are powering the buy now button to 
ensure more conversions," he said. 
"It is allowing us to channel the user to their preferred retailer so they can complete that purchase instantly and buy 
without any competitor distraction or any issue which is going to prevent that sale," Beckett added. 
"The key thing here is about being scaleable. We make sure every hour that the product is still live, in stock and the 
link still works. It is highly complex," he said. 
"We are completely seamless, so we can ensure they have a consistent experience across all devices and 
platforms so they user always knows what to expect when they click 'buy now'." 
Beckett said his company made it easier for brands to manage different budgets for platforms like Facebook and 
Pinterest by capturing them comparable data. "This means you can know 'what is my conversion rate from Twitter 
versus Facebook' using the exact same criteria," he said. 
"There is no competitive distraction or friction in that process that will prevent people purchasing brands," he said. 
Beckett said his company already employed 32 people in Ireland, Greece and Romania. "We are hiring and looking 
for new offices to expand." 
He said the company's new venture funding would allow it work with more brands and continue to develop its 
technology. "Where we see this industry going is where you have much less basic advertising and much more 
personalised user placed advertising," he said. 
"It could be product placement for example. Somebody sees someone wearing a shirt on television and they press 
'buy now'," he said. 
"The future is all about the personalisation of advertising and ensure the smoothest experience so you can buy that 
product," he concluded. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
LSE hopes brewer's exit will encourage more listings Beverages: SABMiller
LSE hopes brewer's exit will encourage more listings; Beverages: SABMiller
Financial Times (London, England)
November 14, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 699 words
Byline: Kate Burgess and Scheherazade Daneshkhu
Highlight: Recent IPOs have not lived up to the example of SAB - one of Africa's first and most fruitful
Body
SABMiller's acquisition by Anheuser-Busch InBev for £71bn will end the South African brewer's 16-year sojourn on 
the UK stock market. But it also marks a moment in the history of the London Stock Exchange as a forum for 
trading international shares.
South African Breweries, as it was then known, was one of the first companies from Africa to shift its primary listing 
to London, to escape the constraints of exchange controls and gain access to capitalneededfor international growth.
Alan Clark, chief executive of the brewer, described its 1999 listing, which valued the business at £3.4bn, as "the 
launch pad for our global ambitions".
It proved effective. SAB, which started in London with three people and a filing cabinet, transformed itself into a truly 
global brewer and its shares have risen more than tenfold since its UK market debut. It is a FTSE 100 index 
constituent and employs about 800 staff in London and Woking.
For some years, the LSE had been the preferred bourse for overseas miners and resource groups such as Rio 
Tinto, and multinationals with dual listings such as Unilever and Royal Dutch Shell. They came, employed hundreds 
of staff in the UK and set up headquarters in buildings named after them - although most of their operations were 
elsewhere. Antofagasta, the Chilean copper miner, came to London in 1888, making it one of the LSE's oldest 
companies.
LSE hopes brewer's exit will encourage more listings Beverages: SABMiller
Today, the exchange says there are broadly 520 foreign-based businesses on the main market and the junior Aim - 
around 100 of which are African - and they have a combined market capitalisation of about £1.7tn. That means 
about 40 per cent of UK-quoted companies, including the likes of Ryanair, are based abroad and derive most of 
their earnings overseas.
SABMiller is one of the biggest - and also one of the better performers - to have come out of Africa, which made it a 
focal point of the LSE's recent campaign to bring African companies to the City.
However, the listing and inclusion of international companies in the FTSE 100 has been the subject of some 
controversy - particularly the commodities businesses that came to London from emerging markets after 2000. Most 
did not set up headquarters or operations in the UK, restricted the "free float" proportion of their shares and were 
controlled by a tight band of local tycoons.
Against these new entrants, SABMiller - which is held by a diverse range of international investors, leaving only a 
tenth in the hands of South Africans - serves as a counterpoint.
Many of the post-2000 entrants have also lacked accounting transparency and failed to abide by the UK's 
standards on corporate governance.
Few performed well on the LSE and some have been withdrawn under the guise of takeovers, but at pitifully low 
prices. Eurasian Natural Resources Company, Kazakhstan's largest mining company, was floated on the bourse in 
2007 at 540p. After six years during which it was dogged by allegations of bribery, corruption and boardroom 
clashes, it was taken private by its oligarch owners with the help of the Kazakh government at 234p a share.
Copper miner Kazakhmys peaked in 2011 at £17 and was split up last year. Kaz, what is left of the group on the 
LSE, trades at 86p. Bumi Resources, the Indonesia coal miner, was valued at £700m or £10 a share five years ago 
when it joined the London market. After a prolonged battle between shareholder factions the group, now known as 
Asia Resource Minerals, was sold for 56p a share.
Many in the City have blamed loose policies of UK regulators that police the way companies come to market and 
waived some of their rules to allow ENRC and others to list. Some of the listing rules have since been tightened to 
protect minority investors from potential abuses by controlling shareholders.
Now, the LSE is hoping to use the takeover of SAB to help it woo overseas companies to the UK. "We would hope 
that the price paid for SAB might encourage private companies to list in London - the market serving as a shop 
window as well as a source of capital," it said.
But without the presence of SAB to steady nerves, it will be hard to allay the concerns of London-based investors 
worried the LSE's entry rules are still not tight enough.
Load-Date: November 13, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa Cancels 941 Flights Amid Cabin Crew Strike
Lufthansa Cancels 941 Flights Amid Cabin Crew Strike
International Business Times News
November 13, 2015 Friday 1:33 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 595 words
Byline: Sneha Shankar
Body
Nov 13, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> German 
airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG said that it will cancel 941 flights on Friday due to a strike by flight attendants, taking 
the total number of flights cancelled during the week to 4,700. Friday's cancellation is expected to affect 110,000 
passengers, while more than half a million passengers were reportedly affected due to the week-long strike, the 
Associated Press (AP) reported.<nl/> In a statement[1] on their website Lufthansa said: 'We regret that we must 
publish a special flight schedule for 13.11.2015 as well,' adding: 'The company will do its utmost to keep the effects 
of a strike to a minimum and to inform passengers as soon as possible.'<nl/>
 The Independent Flight Attendant's Organization (UFO), the cabin crew union, has put forth several demands, 
including secure transition payments for its 19,000 members, in case they retire early, AP reported[2]. The clash 
between the administration and Lufthansa employees comes as the company tries to restructure and develop the 
Eurowings division into a low-cost service, to help it compete with other rivals like Ryanair Holdings Plc and easyJet 
Plc, Bloomberg reported.<nl/> Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr believes that the potential gain from the move is 
much bigger than the immediate hit, but workers have refused to come on board with the plan. According to an 
estimate by Kepler Cheuvreux, an independent European financial services company, the strikes could create a 
financial impact of about 100 million euros ($108 million), according[3] to Bloomberg. The company had offered a 
one-time payment of 3,000 euros per employee and had accepted the union's demands on early retirements for 
current workers. The company also said that it will scale back flights but the union called the move a 
'provocation.'<nl/> The company is expected to resume normal flight schedules[4] on Saturday despite withdrawing 
an injunction against last-minute walkouts. The decision came after a German court indicated that it may not 
reverse a Wednesday ruling by a lower court allowing workers to continue their strike, Reuters reported.<nl/> "All 
planned long-haul flights will be able to take off on Saturday," the company reportedly said Thursday.<nl/> The 
Reuters report[5] also cited Union chief Nicoley Baublies to say that the union plans to call all the Lufthansa 
employees for a demonstration at the Frankfurt airport from midday Friday. "If there is no movement from 
management then maybe we will have to say that there will be more strikes," Baublies said, adding that there was 
willingness to end the strike soon by making a new proposal.<nl/> Lufthansa, on the other hand, has condemned 
the strikes and the company's head of personnel, Bettina Volkens, reportedly said in an interview to Bild: "With this 
strike, they're only making it harder for us all," adding: "The only ones that are happy about the situation are our 
rivals."<nl/> 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.lufthansa.com/de/en/Travel-information 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://bigstory.ap.org/article/fd0c1e0c12064faa993c3cdde2ea3f0e/german-airline-lufthansa-cancels-941-flights-due-
strike [ 3]:            http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-11-13/lufthansa-aims-for-full-flight-plan-after-
Lufthansa Cancels 941 Flights Amid Cabin Crew Strike
longest-ever-strike [ 4]:            http://www.ibtimes.com/lufthansa-cabin-crew-strike-frankfurt-dusseldorf-likely-affect-
short-haul-flights-2172674 [ 5]:            http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/11/12/lufthansa-strike-
idUSL8N1374UI20151112#VOkSSx0LKjQrg6Og.97 
Load-Date: November 13, 2015
End of Document
German airline refines the art of coping with strikes
German airline refines the art of coping with strikes
Associated Press Financial Wire
November 11, 2015 Wednesday 4:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 622 words
Byline: By DAVID McHUGH, AP Business Writer
Dateline: FRANKFURT, Germany 
Body
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - An airline strike with hundreds of cancelled flights conjures up fears of long lines 
and chaos, but German carrier Lufthansa appears to be coping, having managed over a dozen walkouts in a matter 
of months.
On Wednesday, the airline re-booked and re-routed thousands of passengers as a walkout by flight attendants led 
to the cancellation of more than 900 flights on the stoppage's fifth day.
Travelers may have been frustrated or inconvenienced, and the strikes cost the airline millions of euros. But little of 
that was in evidence at the airport, where there were no lines at the usually bustling Lufthansa counters at 
Frankfurt's international airport, the airlines' main hub.
The only backup was a short queue at the rebooking counter. There was not even a line for the free snack carts the 
airline was providing.
The short lines were above all the fruit of the airline's effort to tell people about flight cancellations or changes by 
email or SMS - before they arrived at the airport.
"We are informing passengers who are affected by the strike directly, at least in those cases where they left us their 
contact data when they booked," said spokeswoman Sandra Kraft. A cancellation generates an automated SMS or 
email. Kraft noted that the strike has also received extensive news media coverage. "Certainly, the experience we 
have gained helps us take care of our customers," she said.
The airline has encountered conflict with employee representatives as it attempts to reduce costs. The airline says it 
needs leaner costs structures to compete with low cost carriers such as Ryanair on European routes and against 
Gulf carriers such as Etihad, Emirates, and Qatar Airways that Lufthansa and U.S. carriers say get government 
subsidies. There were 13 pilot strikes over 18 months, until a court halted them in September.
The UFO flight attendants' union wants to secure transition payments for its 19,000 members if they retire early, 
among other demands as part of its contract dispute.
German airline refines the art of coping with strikes
Not everything went smoothly Wednesday. Complaints aimed at the airlines Twitter feed indicated customers were 
facing long waits to get through on the company's phone line. The English-language @Lufthansa was sending 
about a tweet a minute, directing customers to the rebooking site where they could rebook themselves, or urging 
them to keep trying the toll-free number.
The agitated included Irish soccer fans headed from Dublin to Sarajevo for their national team's match Friday with 
Bosnia-Herzegovina. Software developer Jezen Thomas sought clarity about his still-scheduled flight Friday from 
Gdansk, Poland, through Frankfurt to San Francisco for a business trip. He tried to book an earlier flight but couldn't 
get through on the phone. "They say on the website all flights are cancelled, but they also are saying people should 
check their flight status," Thomas said. "I don't feel I've been kept informed."
The Rev. Marie-Augustin Laurent-Huyghues-Beaufond, a Dominican priest from Strasbourg, France visiting the 
Dominican community in Helsinki, learned in an automated Lufthansa email that his return flight to Frankfurt 
scheduled for Thursday was cancelled. He rebooked for the next day. "Good thing I'm staying with brothers in our 
priory, so that accommodation is not an issue!" he told the Associated Press by email.
The airline says that since the strikes started on Friday it has cancelled 2,800 flights involving 330,000 passengers.
The airline's other group members are operating as planned, including some code-sharing flights operated by its 
CityLine and Air Dolomiti brands and flights of subsidiaries such as Swiss, Austrian Airlines and Germanwings.
___
Lufthansa strike information: http://bit.ly/1MTyWha
Load-Date: November 12, 2015
End of Document
EasyJet targets business flyers Airlines
EasyJet targets business flyers; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
November 11, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 235 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet is seeking to differentiate itself from its low-cost rivals by launching a frequent flyer card as it pursues a 
bigger share of European business travel.
The budget airline has focused on attracting more business travellers in recent years with flexible tickets, allocated 
seats and more frequent flights to big city airports. EasyJet said it would roll out its new Flight Club scheme from 
next year, targeting customers that have flown on 20 or more flights in a year. Benefits will include no charges when 
altering the name on a ticket.
Budget airlines have avoided frequent flyer offerings because of the higher costs associated with introducing them. 
Ryanair recently ruled out launching one, despite offering flexible tickets for business passengers last year.
The perk, traditionally associated with airlines such as British Airways, will be available to hundreds of thousands of 
easyJet's customers, the airline said. It follows an 18-month trial.
"This is nothing like a traditional airline reward programme with its admin and its bureaucracy. This . . . gives 
passengers benefits that they really value," said Carolyn McCall , chief executive.
Ms McCall said easyJet expected to return all its passengers from Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt by Sunday after flights 
were suspended in the wake of a Russian plane crash there. She said it was too early to say what financial impact 
the suspension would have.
EasyJet targets business flyers Airlines
Load-Date: November 10, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa cabin crew union rejects latest offer from company
Lufthansa cabin crew union rejects latest offer from company
Associated Press Financial Wire
November 9, 2015 Monday 6:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 539 words
Dateline: FRANKFURT, Germany 
Body
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - A union representing striking Lufthansa flight attendants rejected the latest offer 
from the company Monday as the two sides prepared for more cancellations at the airline's German hubs.
Union head Nicoley Baublies said the latest offer was only a "minimal" improvement.
Lufthansa said it offered improvements including increasing a one-time signing bonus to 3,000 euros ($3,300) from 
2,000 euros previously. The company also proposed a summit meeting between union leaders and top 
management - including CEO Carsten Spohr - to resolve remaining issues on the condition that labor 
representatives immediately end the strike.
Baublies said union officials would meet Spohr at any time, but "without preconditions.
The company called the stoppage by the UFO flight attendants union "irresponsible."
The strike action, launched Friday, is set to last all week, with shifting targets. On Monday, about 113,000 
passengers on 929 flights were affected at the Frankfurt, Munich and Duesseldorf airports.
The union wants to secure transition payments for its 19,000 members if they retire early as part of its contract 
dispute with Lufthansa, which is trying to cut costs.
For Tuesday, UFO said, only long-haul international flights will be affected at Lufthansa's Munich and Frankfurt 
hubs, the dpa news agency reported. At Duesseldorf, all flights, long-distance and shorter ones within Germany and 
Europe, however, will be struck.
The travel disruptions highlight the pressure Europe's flagship carriers are under as they struggle to compete with 
Gulf airlines on long-haul flights between Europe and Asia and with budget brands on regional routes.
UFO called on all members to walk out Monday from 4.30 a.m. to 11 p.m. (0330 GMT to 2200 GMT) in Frankfurt 
and Duesseldorf and until midnight (2300 GMT) in Munich. Lufthansa said 929 flight segments were cancelled, out 
of 3,000 planned connections.
Lufthansa cabin crew union rejects latest offer from company
The union wants to secure transition payments for its 19,000 members if they retire early as part of its contract 
dispute with Lufthansa, which is trying to cut costs. The strikes don't affect Lufthansa subsidiaries such as 
Eurowings, Germanwings, Swiss and Austrian Airlines.
Lufthansa, which has also had more than a dozen pilot strikes over the past 18 months, is trying to hold down costs 
as it competes against low-cost airlines such as Ryanair on European routes. On its lucrative long-haul business, 
Lufthansa faces pressure from airlines in the Persian Gulf region such as Emirates, Ethihad Airways, and Qatar 
Airways. Lufthansa says that the Gulf carriers receive unfair backing from their governments.
The German airline is not alone. Air France-KLM has also been looking to trim costs and seen labor unrest in which 
union activists stormed a meeting and ripped the shirts off two managers.
Helped by lower fuel prices, Lufthansa's net profit jumped to 794 million euros in the third quarter, from 561 million 
in the same quarter a year ago, an increase of 42 percent. That has helped sharpen the labor relations climate as 
worker representatives say the airline has the money. The airline cautions that it can't count on temporary factors 
such as the oil price and must continue to press for competitive cost structures.
Load-Date: November 10, 2015
End of Document
Human rights law cited more often in court; Report on disputes
Human rights law cited more often in court; Report on disputes
Financial Times (London, England)
November 9, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 520 words
Byline: Jane Croft Law, Courts Correspondent
Highlight: Conservatives plan to repeal act and replace it with British Bill of Rights
Body
The Human Rights Act is being deployed more frequently in legal disputes, including business and tax cases, 
according to a report by Thomson Reuters legal business.
The rising number of cases is significant because the government has said it plans to repeal the Human Rights Act 
and replace it with a British Bill of Rights. The Conservatives believe the act "undermines the role of UK courts" 
because it requires British judges to take into account rulings by the European Court of Human Rights in 
Strasbourg.
Some 428 court cases ranging from tax appeals to business disputes invoked Human Rights Act legislation in 
2013-14. This is up from 410 cases in 2012-13 although below a peak of 714 cases in 2001-2, just after Tony Blair's 
Labour government passed the Human Rights Act into law.
In the latest period, the act was cited in 46 business cases and nine taxrelated cases, according to the Thomson 
Reuters report. Other cases have involved wider challenges to government policy using judicial reviews and asylum 
or immigration cases.
Recent cases have included a legal dispute between HMRC and more than 150 members of Ingenious Media, a 
film investment scheme. The investors applied for a judicial review of HMRC's disclosure of information about 
Ingenious to the media. They said it was a breach of their right to privacy under the act but failed to win their case.
Human rights law cited more often in court; Report on disputes
In another tax-related dispute, a tribunal ruled that financial penalties imposed on taxpayer Anthony Bosher should 
be reduced on the basis they infringed his human rights. Human rights law has also been invoked in antitrust 
disputes, including one mounted by budget airline Ryanair which last year unsuccessfully challenged a Competition 
Commission ruling that it should sell its minority stake in another airline. Ryanair said the ruling impaired its right to 
"peaceful enjoyment" of its "possessions" under human rights law.
Human rights legislation was also cited in an ongoing $4bn lawsuit involving the Treasury and Bank Mellat, an 
Iranian bank. Bank Mellat successfully challenged a 2009 order by the Treasury prohibiting UK financial institutions 
from doing business with it. The bank has launched a legal claim for substantial damages using the act, saying it 
suffered loss and damage from the order that was imposed under the 2008 Counter-Terrorism Act. The case has 
yet to come to trial.
Michael Gove, justice secretary, has promised a consultation on the Bill of Rights plan later in the autumn. The 
Conservative manifesto said the bill would replace Labour's Human Rights Act but would "remain faithful to the 
basic principles of human rights".
A number of senior Conservative MPs, including former ministers Dominic Grieve and Andrew Mitchell, have 
expressed fears that Britain could be forced to leave the European Court of Human Rights under the plan.
Tom Hickman, barrister at Blackstone Chambers and author of Human Rights: Judicial Protection in the United 
Kingdom, said that while the Human Rights Act was more commonly linked to immigration and criminal cases, it 
was being used more by businesses and taxpayers to protect their interests.
Load-Date: November 8, 2015
End of Document
Unit costs will define short-haul flight winner
Unit costs will define short-haul flight winner
Financial Times (London, England)
November 9, 2015 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 6
Length: 283 words
Body
Sir, Your article " Low-cost airlines drop upstart image and dress to impress " (November 5) is a pleasant treatise 
on efforts to improve customer satisfaction but ignores the ground war that will define who really wins and loses in 
short-haul point-to-point European air travel over the next 10 years.
Airlines have, for decades, been seduced by the notion that branding and loving your customer was the golden 
elixir that guaranteed success. Many millions were expended on swanky consultants, high-profile uniform designers 
and ponytailed branding gurus while equity value drained away. In fact, the global airline industry has never 
produced a return on capital that exceeded its cost of capital until 2015, and the debate is on as to whether or not 
this year is a short-term function of sharp fuel price declines or better management.
The secret to sustained equity value creation in short-haul air travel continues to be unit costs. While Ryanair's chief 
executive is now being feted by the cappuccino-quaffing branding brigade they have missed the fact that ex fuel 
unit costs within that low-cost carrier remain at industry lows. While he plays the game of hugging and kissing, the 
business model beneath continues to power through market share and competitors as its fleet is set to grow from 
308 Boeing 737s currently to 546 units by 2024.
In 10 years' time it will not be the beauty of Ryanair's business model that has delivered success for its 
shareholders but rather the beast defined by ex fuel per passenger costs of EUR29, which are about half those of 
its direct competitors in the short-haul European theatre.
Joe Gill
Unit costs will define short-haul flight winner
Director of Corporate Broking, Capital Markets,
Goodbody,
Dublin, Ireland
Load-Date: November 8, 2015
End of Document
Tailwinds boosted Ryanair 's results
Tailwinds boosted Ryanair's results
Sunday Business Post
November 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 594 words
Byline: Michael Murray
Highlight: No airline looks better placed than Ryanair to sustain growth into the future
Body
So many different factors don't often coincide to boost an airline's earnings. A recovering European economy and 
weather conditions that drove increased travel in Northern Europe were two. But Ryanair's advantages were 
common to the company's rivals as well: EasyJet and Wizz Air reported strong earnings growth too with the same 
tailwinds behind them. 
Ryanair's results were all the more remarkable for the fact that they were achieved with the headwind of a hedged 
oil price at an unfavourable rate relative to the market. The hedges are now running off and it is the company's 
intention to use the (EURO)430 million it anticipates from that saving in the coming financial year to cut fares more 
and thus pressure rivals. 
No airline looks better placed than Ryanair to sustain its uninterrupted growth given its substantial cost advantage 
over rivals. 
Its latest costs per passenger (excluding fuel) are 34 per cent less than for its nearest rival Wizz Air. These cost 
advantages have been built up over 30 years. 
The ten-year head start that Ryanair had in the low fare space relative to competitors helped - as did the dead hand 
of state owners of many national carriers. 
But beyond costs, the gap in key metrics - ancillary revenues, balance sheet strength, cash pile, fleet and delivery 
pipeline, network size, route numbers, and market share - have combined to keep Ryanair streets ahead in terms of 
profitability, balance sheet strength, liquidity, return on capital employed, and the ability to fund its expansion at a 
lower cost than rivals. 
Growth is now being financed from retained earnings and cashflow, but Ryanair recently accessed the bond 
markets, raising term debt at a coupon of 1.1 per cent. 
Tailwinds boosted Ryanair 's results
Uniquely for an airline, Ryanair's credit rating is investment grade. Its latest fundraising cost of bond term finance at 
1.1 per cent is just over one fifth of Luthansa's and nearly one sixth of Air France's. Michael O'Leary's pressure on 
rivals looks to be increasing on every front. 
Aside from the low cost segment where Ryanair has clear market leadership, O'Leary is now tweaking the business 
model to build the new "Business Plus" segment through some re-branding, refurbishment of plane interiors, and 
introduction of enhanced services and options. This is a business opportunity that is still at its infancy but the 
Westmeath businessman is turning up the heat. 
In terms of expansion and competition, Ryanair will be taking delivery of 28 new aircraft over the next 12 months - 
at prices that are highly competitive - bringing the total number under its wing to 340. 
Another 330 others are on order all of the same model and class to standardise maintenance - thereby reducing 
costs. These purchases were negotiated at good prices at opportune times and will be deployed to target another 
doubling of Ryanair earnings over the next decade. 
The fact that the company's bond placing was so heavily oversubscribed suggests that in the absence of a 
deterioration in the bond markets the company should be able to raise substantial sums of very low long-term 
capital at rates that its competitors can only dream of. 
Readers invested in Ryanair face the problem that the torrent of good news from O'Leary and his finance director 
last week and the details of the building blocks now in place to propel the growth of the future may already be 
baked into the recent share price rise. 
But with so many new growth platforms being introduced and others being built upon, O'Leary looks well set to 
continue to thrill his shareholders over the next decade. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Datalex closes in on Lufthansa contract
Datalex closes in on Lufthansa contract
Sunday Business Post
November 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 363 words
Byline: Jack Horgan Jones
Highlight: The Irish company is understood to have secured the support of computing giant IBM for its bid
Body
Datalex, the Irish travel software giant backed by Dermot Desmond, is closing in on a 'transformative' contract with 
Europe's largest airline, Lufthansa. 
The company is understood to have edged ahead of industry heavyweight Amadeus in the race to win Lufthansa's 
business. 
It would be considered a major coup to see off Amadeus, which has a market capitalisation of just under (EURO)17 
billion. 
Datalex, by contrast, has a market capitalisation of just under (EURO)200 million. 
The Irish company is understood to have secured the support of computing giant IBM for its bid. 
A deal with the German airline would be 'transformative' for the Iseq-listed company, sources said, and would make 
Datalex a prime target for acquisition once the deal is completed early in the new year. 
Market sources suggested that the Lufthansa deal could see a potential price tag for Datalex rise as high as 
(EURO)300 million. 
Datalex, which manufactures technologies that allow airlines to conduct sophisticated digital commerce transactions 
on their flights and track consumer behaviours, has consistently been one of the best performers on the Irish stock 
exchange in recent years. 
The company, which was founded in Dublin in 1985, counts Aer Lingus, Air China, Delta Air Lines, Virgin Atlantic 
and JetBlue - the 'American Ryanair' - among its customers. 
However, a deal with Lufthansa would elevate the company's standing even further. 
Datalex closes in on Lufthansa contract
The company posted a significant increase in profits in March, reporting a 69 per cent jump in after-tax gains to 
(EURO)2.4 million. 
Revenues at the company also grew to (EURO)37.8 million, a nine per cent increase. 
Datalex has been reaping the rewards of its recent success, winning technology exporter of the year at this year's 
tech excellence awards. 
It was also recognised at the World Travel Awards as the leading travel distribution provider and the leading travel 
merchandising solution provider earlier this year. 
The company has offices in Dublin, China and Europe. 
In a recent research n ote by Goodbody, the company's stock was recommended as a 'buy' with analysts saying 
that Datalex enjoyed a "visible flight path" to continued positive returns. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
O'Leary's Ryanair stake jumps to record high
O'Leary's Ryanair stake jumps to record high
Sunday Business Post
November 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 394 words
Byline: Ian Guider
Highlight: O'Leary, who owns about 50 million shares in the airline, has seen his stake climb to (EURO)740 million
Body
The value of Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary's stake in the airline has jumped by more than (EURO)250 million this 
year, as the company's share price closed at a record high last week. 
O'Leary, who owns about 50 million shares in the airline, has seen his stake climb to (EURO)740 million. He is the 
largest individual shareholder in Ryanair, with a 3 per cent stake. 
His wealth from the airline will climb further as shareholders will soon begin receiving cheques from the company as 
it distributes the proceeds of the sale of its 29 per cent stake in Aer Lingus. 
Shares in Ryanair closed on Friday at (EURO)14.78, having started 2015 at just under (EURO)10. The share price 
rose by six per cent last week alone on the back of a record half-year after-tax profit of (EURO)1.08 billion and it 
upgraded its forecast for full-year earnings. 
The airline also upped its estimate of the number of passengers it will carry in its current financial year, which ends 
next March, by one million to 105 million. 
O'Leary told analysts on a conference call last week that he now expects to generate significant revenue from the 
company's website, which has 40 million users. 
Ryanair has invested in hiring hundreds of software developer, customer experience, digital and social media staff 
to improve its website and mobile apps. 
"We think we will now get an opportunity, over the next 12 to 18 months, to monetise the system that they've put in 
place. 
O'Leary's Ryanair stake jumps to record high
"We will try and get more people signed up to MyRyanair. We currently have six million people registered on that, 
and we would be excited about the opportunities we will have to enhance penetration, such as things as reserved 
seating, in relation to car hire and hotels, in time," he said on the call. 
O'Leary also predicted a fare war between carriers this winter. 
Lower fuel prices and grounding fewer planes will mean lower fares to entice passengers to fly, he said. 
"I would be disappointed if there isn't [a fare war] this winter. Ryanair is expanding our capacity - other airlines are 
expanding their winter capacity this year in a reasonably benign market environment. And we are already - we're 
already lowering our prices. In recent weeks, we've seen most airlines reduce their prices. But we expect   pricing to 
be reasonably flat in [the third quarter], but to be down about four percentage points in [the fourth]." 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Airlines could use Facebook for customer service
Airlines could use Facebook for customer service
Sunday Business Post
November 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 530 words
Byline: Colette Sexton
Highlight: Messenger, which started as a simple messaging tool, has grown to include video and voice calls and 
peer-to-peer payments
Body
Irish airlines could be using Facebook's communications app, Messenger, to talk to their customers as soon as 
2016, according to Messenger's vice president, David Marcus. 
Messenger, which started out as a simple messaging tool, has grown to include video and voice calls, peer-to-peer 
payments and location-sharing, and it can even be used without a Facebook account. 
The next stage of the app is to move into the business-to-consumer market. Within the app, businesses will be able 
to include each piece of communications it has ever had with a customer in one thread. 
Marcus said threads were a better paradigm for business interactions than apps. 
"Every thread with a business has identity, it has context, it is canonical. It is transaction-enabled and as a result 
businesses can build really great experiences inside of those threads," he said. 
It is rolling this service out among airlines at the moment. The Dutch international airline KLM was the first to sign 
up, but Marcus said that by the end of next year, Irish airlines could  be using the service also. 
Messenger has not yet spoken to Ryanair or Aer Lingus about using its app for business, but Marcus said that all 
European airlines were good prospects for the service. 
When Marcus, who was previously chief executive of PayPal, took over Messenger in July 2014, it had 300 million 
monthly unique users. Now it has 700 million and has been downloaded over one billion times. 
Part of Marcus' objective at Messenger is to replace the phone number. 
Airlines could use Facebook for customer service
"Phone numbers are a random series of digits that are supposed to represent a thing that makes you reachable. It's 
really antiquated when you think about it," he said. 
Searching for someone by name is much better than having to exchange phone numbers, and that is what the 
Messenger team is working towards, he said. 
"As with everything that is deeply ingrained, it takes a little bit of time for people to change habits, but I think we 
have a good shot," he said. 
Messenger's team is mainly based in Menlo Park in California but as it expands, he said, it will work with 
Facebook's teams across the world, including in Dublin. 
When asked if Dublin should try to replicate the ecosystem in Silicon Valley, he said that many places have tried to 
emulate the technology scene in Silicon Valley and it has not worked so far. 
But he said Dublin and Ireland had enough talent globally to create a healthy technology scene. 
"The policies and openness of Ireland [are] the reason why it has been so successful in the past couple of years 
and definitely in the past decade. It is a very pragmatic country and I like that a lot," he said. 
In general, he said that technology was a very healthy industry for investors. 
Early-stage valuations in technology companies tend to be fairly accurate, he said, although there might be over-
valuation in late-stage private companies that previously would have been public. 
"A bigger and bigger portion of GDPs of countries in general is coming from tech and a lot of lives revolve around 
tech, way more than a decade ago and certainly two decades ago," he said. 
He has not invested in any Irish businesses, but added: "I should fix that." 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Lufthansa flight attendants to begin eight-day strike in Frankfurt
Lufthansa flight attendants to begin eight-day strike in Frankfurt
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 6, 2015 Friday 10:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 275 words
Body
       BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Flight attendants at Lufthansa are to begin their rolling eight-day strike by withdrawing 
crews from 2 pm (1300 GMT) at Frankfurt, the German airline's main hub, their union announced.  The union, Ufo, 
is demanding preservation of retirement benefits that enable many stewards and pursers to retire from 55. The 
strike threatens to pull the airline group back into the red after a quarter where its earnings rose by half and it 
forecast a strong full year. 
 Instead of holding an all-out strike, Ufo has adopted a rolling strategy, announcing its members will not crew any 
take-offs from Frankfurt for Friday afternoon and evening, whereas crews will work as normal at Lufthansa's 
number-two hub, Munich, through Sunday.  Crews were also pulled Friday at a minor field, Dusseldorf, where 
Lufthansa operates only a single daily international flight and 18 domestic connections.  'All passengers of 
Lufthansa must assume that their flight might get cancelled at the last minute,' Nicoley Baublies, leader of Ufo, 
warned. The short-notice tactic has been adopted by the union to thwart Lufthansa counter-efforts to organize 
skeleton services.  He added the union was no longer open to talks, and would only call off the strike if Lufthansa 
made a substantial offer.  Lufthansa's 19,000 attendants had previously been docile compared to its pilots, who 
have struck 13 times in a similar dispute that is still simmering.  Lufthansa chief executive Carsten Spoehr is 
spearheading a cost-cutting drive to ward off competition from both budget lines such as Ryanair and mega-carriers 
from the Gulf such as Emirates.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 6, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa cancels 290 flights as attendants launch strike
Lufthansa cancels 290 flights as attendants launch strike
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 6, 2015 Friday 12:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 397 words
Body
       By Jean-Baptiste Piggin, dpa   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Lufthansa cancelled 290 flights Friday after its flight 
attendants announced the first stoppages in a rolling eight-day strike in defence of their retirement benefits.  The 
airline reserved 2,500 hotel rooms in Frankfurt, the airline's main hub, to accommodate thousands of incoming 
passengers at risk of being stranded in the city.  Hundreds of stretcher beds were set up in the airport's transit zone 
for those onward-bound travellers, especially from India, who lack visas to enter Europe. 
 Frankfurt is a principal redistributor point for passenger traffic between India and North America.  Of the 290 
cancelled flights - 10 per cent of daily movements by the group - 15 were intercontinental routes, with the rest within 
Europe. Lufthansa said 37,500 passengers were affected.  The union, Ufo, is demanding preservation of retirement 
benefits that enable many stewards to retire from 55. The strike threatens to pull the airline group back into the red 
after a quarter where its earnings rose by half and it forecast a strong full year.  Instead of holding an all-out strike, 
Ufo has adopted a rolling strategy, announcing its members will not crew any take-offs from Frankfurt for Friday 
afternoon and evening, whereas crews will work as normal at Lufthansa's number-two hub, Munich, through 
Sunday.  The attendants are only refusing to work on Lufthansa-livery jets. Other airlines in the group are flying 
normally.  'All passengers of Lufthansa must assume that their flight might get cancelled at the last minute,' Nicoley 
Baublies, leader of Ufo, warned. The short-notice tactic has been adopted by the union to thwart Lufthansa counter-
efforts to organize skeleton services.  He added the union was no longer open to talks, and would only call off the 
strike if Lufthansa made a substantial offer.  Lufthansa's 19,000 attendants had previously been docile compared to 
its pilots, who have struck 13 times in a similar dispute that is still simmering.  Lufthansa chief executive Carsten 
Spoehr is spearheading a cost-cutting drive to ward off competition from both budget lines such as Ryanair and 
mega-carriers from the Gulf such as Emirates.  Crews were also pulled Friday at a minor field, Dusseldorf, where 
Lufthansa operates only a single daily international flight and 18 domestic connections.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 6, 2015
Lufthansa cancels 290 flights as attendants launch strike
End of Document
Lufthansa cancels 290 flights as attendants launch strike
Lufthansa cancels 290 flights as attendants launch strike
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 6, 2015 Friday 4:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 429 words
Body
       By Jean-Baptiste Piggin, dpa   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Lufthansa cancelled 290 flights Friday after its flight 
attendants launched a rolling eight-day strike in defence of their retirement benefits.  The airline reserved 2,500 
hotel rooms in Frankfurt, the airline's main hub, to accommodate thousands of incoming passengers at risk of being 
stranded in the city.  Some 600 stretcher beds were set up in the airport's transit zone for those onward-bound 
travellers, especially from India, who lack visas to enter Europe. 
 Frankfurt is a principal redistributor point for passenger traffic between India and North America.  The union, Ufo, 
said it was refusing to fly out of Frankfurt and a smaller domestic field, Dusseldorf, on both Friday and Saturday, but 
would resume work there on Sunday.  Instead of holding an all-out strike, Ufo has adopted a rolling strategy. At 
Lufthansa's number-two hub, Munich, crews will remain at work through Sunday. Ufo has not said what will happen 
after that.  Lufthansa diverted four incoming long-range flights from Frankfurt to Munich as a result, an airline 
spokeswoman, Bettina Rittberger, said.  Of the 290 flights cancelled Friday - 10 per cent of daily movements by the 
group - 15 were intercontinental routes, with the rest within Europe. Lufthansa said 37,500 passengers were 
affected.  On Saturday, only mid-haul destinations from Frankfurt are to be affected.  Ufo is demanding preservation 
of retirement benefits that enable many stewards to retire from 55. The strike threatens to pull the airline group back 
into the red after a quarter where its earnings rose by half and it forecast a strong full year.  The attendants are only 
refusing to work on Lufthansa-livery jets. Other airlines in the group are flying normally.  'All passengers of 
Lufthansa must assume that their flight might get cancelled at the last minute,' Nicoley Baublies, leader of Ufo, 
warned. The short-notice tactic has been adopted by the union to thwart Lufthansa counter-efforts to organize 
skeleton services.  He added the union was no longer open to talks, and would only call off the strike if Lufthansa 
made a substantial offer. He said normal service would resume November 14.  Lufthansa's 19,000 attendants had 
previously been docile compared to its pilots, who have struck 13 times in a similar dispute that is still simmering.  
Lufthansa chief executive Carsten Spoehr is spearheading a cost-cutting drive to ward off competition from both 
budget lines such as Ryanair and mega-carriers from the Gulf such as Emirates.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 6, 2015
Lufthansa cancels 290 flights as attendants launch strike
End of Document
Lufthansa Cabin Crew Strike Likely To Affect Short-Haul Flights
Lufthansa Cabin Crew Strike Likely To Affect Short-Haul Flights
International Business Times News
November 6, 2015 Friday 11:39 AM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 323 words
Byline: Vishakha Sonawane
Body
Nov 06, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> German 
carrier Lufthansa's cabin crew will begin a weeklong strike Friday, potentially affecting the airline's short-haul flights. 
The cabin crew union announced earlier this week that its members would stage walkouts at Frankfurt and 
Düsseldorf airports.<nl/> Lufthansa said Friday it would be able to offer at least eight of its long-haul flights from 
Frankfurt after the strike starts at 2 p.m. EST (1300 GMT), the Associated Press[1] reported. The airline also added 
that it has reserved 2,500 hotel rooms in the city to accommodate passengers stranded by the strike, according to 
AP.<nl/> Lufthansa also said that subsidiary airlines Swiss, Austrian Airlines, Germanwings, Eurowings, Brussels 
Airlines, Air Dolomiti and Cityline will not be affected by the strike.<nl/> 'None of the Austrian Airlines flights as well 
as Lufthansa Passenger Airline flights from and to Munich will be affected by the strike. Lufthansa Cargo regrets 
any inconvenience caused by strike actions of the union UFO,' Lufthansa said[2], in a statement.<nl/> UFO rejected 
Lufthansa's proposal in a long-running dispute over savings efforts implemented by the airline as it copes with 
competition from low-cost rivals such as Ryanair Holdings Plc, Bloomberg[3] reported. The union said Friday that 
the protests will continue through Nov. 13 and crew members at other airports will walk out Saturday. UFO did not 
specify the other locations of the strike. Lufthansa shares were up 2.3 percent Friday morning.<nl/> [ 1]: 
http://bigstory.ap.org/article/cfff3a66cdc046a29d9564e2d715c5f0/lufthansa-cabin-crew-striking-frankfurt-
duesseldorf [ 2]:            http://lufthansa-cargo.com/-/strike-by-cabin-crew-union-ufo-on-friday-6-november- [ 3]:            
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-11-05/lufthansa-cabin-crews-to-start-airline-s-longest-strike-friday 
Load-Date: November 6, 2015
End of Document
Low-cost airlines drop upstart image as they dress to impress
Low-cost airlines drop upstart image as they dress to impress
Financial Times (London, England)
November 6, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: BUSINESS LIFE; Pg. 14
Length: 624 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Highlight: New look at Ryanair is the sign of a maturing brand, writes Tanya Powley
Body
A large Top Gun movie poster fills the reception of Ryanair 's Dublin headquarters. But instead of Tom Cruise in his 
fighter pilot jacket, the mock up features two of the budget airline's male flight attendants in smart new-look 
uniforms with the heading "coming to a base near you".
The marketing highlights the change the Irish budget carrier is undergoing as it moves from cheeky brand to a more 
mature airline - albeit one still with a touch of humour. Gone are the days of Ryanair's irritating klaxon blaring out to 
signal a punctual flight. In its place come more sophisticated crew outfits and aircraft interiors with images of happy 
holidaying families.
From December, flight attendants will don new uniforms that tone down the garish yellow and blue currently worn 
by staff. The smarter tailoring features a darker shade of blue and less yellow than before. But in keeping with its 
low-cost ethos, the uniforms were made not by a famous designer - such as Virgin Atlantic's recent collaboration 
with Vivienne Westwood - but by a 25-year-old Irish designer named Emma Collopy.
Ryanair's brand repositioning follows similar moves by rival European budget airlines this year. In February, 
easyJet updated the orange and white design on its jets with the aim of moving to a sleek, more modern look. Peter 
Duffy, commercial director, said a refreshed livery would complement changes - such as offering allocated seats 
and faster boarding - by emphasising to customers that changes had been made.
Low-cost airlines drop upstart image as they dress to impress
EasyJet was followed by Wizz Air , the Hungarian budget airline, which redesigned its logo and aircraft livery to 
portray a more elegant and grown-up look as it turned 11 during the summer.
Simon Glynn, a branding expert at Lippincott, the consultancy, says visual changes can help make travellers 
reappraise an airline: "If you do that as a symbol of something fundamental - 'we are changing and we want you to 
reassess us' - it can be very useful."
The cosmetic improvements reflect a wider overhaul by low-cost airlines. Budget carriers are no longer the 
rebellious upstarts that kick-started the cheap "no frills" travel revolution three decades ago. After years of 
gimmicks, budget airlines are trying to move away from being seen as downmarket and are focusing on upgrading 
their services. They must appeal to a wider range of passengers, such as business travellers , for their next stage of 
growth.
John Strickland, an analyst at JLS Consulting, says low-cost airlines realised they could attract more passengers by 
making relatively modest changes, while still maintaining a low cost base.
In easyJet and Ryanair's attempt to attract lucrative business travellers, they have offered more flights in and out of 
Europe's main city airports. That has helped persuade passengers that low fares do not necessarily mean poor 
service, and has moved the budget model upmarket, according to analysts. The softer image makeover had to be 
accompanied by those more substantial improvements to have greatest impact.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, admits its brand needed to go through an "evolution". "Now that we're 
carrying over 100m passengers a year the brand needs to evolve away from being cheeky chappies and 
deliberately irritating people," he says.
But Mr Glynn says the rebranding is also about tapping into the "smart choice" appeal that has popularised discount 
stores such as Lidl. "Airlines can tap into a much bigger market if they sell themselves as the 'smart choice' to 
customers. Why pay more for something than you need to?" he says.
That appeal has benefited Norwegian Air Shuttle. While it markets itself as low-cost, the airline also prides itself on 
being one of the few to offer free WiFi on its European short-haul flights.
Load-Date: November 5, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches Manchester Summer 2016 schedule
Ryanair launches Manchester Summer 2016 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 4, 2015 Wednesday 5:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 510 words
Highlight: Ryanair, an airline, has launched its Manchester Summer 2016 schedule with an additional based 
aircraft and six new routes.
Body
Ryanair's Manchester summer 2016 schedule will deliver: 8 based aircraft (1 additional); 6 new routes: Bratislava (3 
weekly), Bremen (2 weekly), Brindisi (2 weekly), Carcassonne (3 weekly), Limoges (4 weekly) and Malta (3 weekly); 
More flights on 10 routes: Alicante (2 daily), Barcelona (2 daily), Dublin (6 daily), Faro (2 daily), Ibiza (1 daily), 
Madrid (1 daily), Milan B (9 weekly), Rome (9 weekly), Valencia (3 weekly) & Warsaw (3 weekly); 41 routes in total; 
250 weekly flights (25% growth); 3.8m customers p.a. (+500,000); and 2,800 "on-site" jobs p.a. UK consumers and 
visitors can choose from Ryanair's 41 low fare Manchester routes next summer and can look forward to further 
improvements, as Ryanair continues its "Always Getting Better" programme, which includes new bases, a new 
personalised website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms and improved inflight menus. Ryanair's 
Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Manchester Summer 2016 schedule, 
with 6 new routes to Bratislava, Bremen, Brindisi, Carcassonne, Limoges and Malta and more flights on other 10 
routes, which will deliver 3.8m customers p.a. and support 2,800 "on-site" jobs, as we grow by 25% at Manchester 
Airport, delivering 500,000 new customers next year. 
"Manchester is one of the fastest growing airports in the Ryanair network, and we look forward to working closely 
with Manchester Airport Group as we continue to grow jobs, traffic and routes in the North West. Our customers can 
look forward to further "Always Getting Better" improvements in the coming months, including our ground breaking 
personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and real customer destination 
reviews, and improved menus, new cabin crew uniforms and new cabin interiors on board, with more to come in 
Year 3, as we continue to offer so much more than just lowest fares. "To celebrate the launch of our Manchester 
Summer 2016 schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our European network at fares starting 
from just GBP19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (29 Oct). Since these amazing low 
prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out." Ken 
O'Toole, Managing Director of Manchester Airport said: "It's great news to see such strong growth for Ryanair at 
Manchester, the UKs Global Gateway for the North. With new routes for the airport and further capacity increases 
Ryanair launches Manchester Summer 2016 schedule
on existing services, today's announcement will provide passengers with more choice and value, and will contribute 
to further sustained growth by Manchester Airport beyond our current all-time passenger record of 22.9m 
passengers. With over 22m people living within our two hour catchment, two full length runways and a GBP1bn 
transformation programme announced, Manchester Airport has, and will continue to have, the available capacity 
and demand to meet the needs of our catchment that extends as far North as Scotland and South to the Midlands."
Load-Date: November 10, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announce 1m seats for E15 on over 400 routes Ryanair announc...
Ryanair announce 1m seats for E15 on over 400 routes; Ryanair announc...
Business World (Digest)
November 4, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 184 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today announced that they will be releasing one million seats on sale for just E15, on over 
400 routes across its European network, for travel between November and March.
Body
Ryanair have today announced that they will be releasing one million seats on sale for just E15, on over 400 routes 
across its European network, for travel between November and March.
These E15 fares are available from today until 24:00hrs on Thursday, 5th November. Destinations will include 
Athens, Berlin, Brussels, Rome and Lisbon among others.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "We have had a record 2015, carrying more customers than ever before, launching 
hundreds of new routes, while continuing to offer the lowest airfares in Europe and delivering even better 
punctuality and an ever-improving customer experience.
"To celebrate our continued growth and thank our customers, we've released a million seats on sale for just E15 on 
over 400 routes - making Europe's lowest fares even lower. These fares are now on sale but must be booked by 
midnight (24:00hrs) on Thursday, 5th November, for travel between November and March, and at these incredible 
low fares, seats are sure to be snapped up quickly, so we urge customers to book today on www.ryanair.com 
before they sell out." Source:            www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 9, 2015
End of Document
Banks get some welcome relief from Visa cash LONDON REPORT
Banks get some welcome relief from Visa cash; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
November 3, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 23
Length: 358 words
Body
THE FIRST trading day of November saw the FTSE 100 close flat as the news that Visa Europe is to be bought by 
US company Visa helped rally banking stocks.
The FTSE 100 ended yesterday's session flat, up just 0.01 per cent at 6,362 points.
However, HSBC, which reported a jump in pre-tax profit to $6.1bn (£3.95bn) for the third quarter, from $4.6bn 
during the same period last year, outstripping analysts' expectations, saw its London listed share price fall 0.71 per 
cent.
Barclays' share price meanwhile jumped 1.98 per cent, bouncing on the back of the Visa deal, after last week 
reporting adjusted pre-tax profits to have fallen, missing expectations.
Lloyds Bank closed 1.7 per cent up and Royal Bank of Scotland ended the day 1.79 per cent up.
Barclays, one of several UK banks that are members and shareholders in Visa Europe, said it was expecting to 
make £400m post-tax profit from the initial pay-out.
Lloyds estimated it would report a pre-tax gain of £300m from the upfront cash consideration, and Nationwide said it 
would receive "one per cent of the total proceeds payable at such time".
"Bank stocks were atop an otherwise lacklustre FTSE 100 on news they will receive a windfall from their stake in 
Visa Europe which is to be bought by Visa www.US.UK banks including Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds and 
Barclays own Visa Europe as do multiple lenders across Europe," Jasper Lawler at CMC Markets said.
"The windfall from Visa's sale is a welcome change from regulatory fines," Lawler added.
Banks get some welcome relief from Visa cash LONDON REPORT
Recently fears of a slowdown have been hampering mining stocks. Antofagasta, Anglo American, BHP Billiton and 
Rio Tinto finished the day down 1.04 per cent, 0.42 per cent, 1.35 per cent and 1.63 per cent down respectively.
Glencore, however, finished the session 2.67 per cent up.
Airline Ryanair saw shares jump 1.97 per cent after reporting profits are soaring, as the low-cost airline expects full-
year profits to reach the upper end of a range which was recently adjusted upwards.
Meanwhile, the pound jumped against the dollar, after UK manufacturing reached a 16-month high in October, 
recording its best month since June 2014, according to Markit PMI.
Load-Date: November 3, 2015
End of Document
Compass points down as appetite for defence spending declines; London
Compass points down as appetite for defence spending declines; London
Financial Times (London, England)
November 3, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 29
Length: 471 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Compass was a faller yesterday on worries about deeper spending cuts among its mining and oil customers.
Compass's last update in late July highlighted a slowdown at its defence, offshore and remote division, which last 
year accounted for 12 per cent of the caterer's group profit.
Since then, commodity companies have continued to cut capital expenditure budgets, which suggests the pressure 
on Compass's 2016 and 2017 revenues will be greater than investors have anticipated, said Credit Suisse.
Emerging markets also look to have deteriorated further with a Manpower survey of hiring intentions led lower by 
Brazil, Credit Suisse said. The broker put a £10.50 target on Compass, which slipped 3.2 per cent to £10.83.
A mixed wider market left the FTSE 100 barely changed, up 0.71 points at 6,361.80. Blue-chip volume was down a 
quarter on the recent daily average.
Glencore rose 2.8 per cent to 115.6p ahead of a production report tomorrow, which investors say could come with 
debt-reduction measures.
Barclays rose 1.7 per cent to 236.1p on Visa's long-awaited $23bn purchase of Visa Europe.
Barclays is in line for a windfall of about £400m for its stake in Visa Europe, equivalent to a 0.2 per cent boost to its 
core capital ratio, say analysts.
Compass points down as appetite for defence spending declines; London
RBS , up 1.7 per cent to 323.1p, and Lloyds Banking Group , ahead 1.7 per cent to 75p, will take about £200m 
each from the Visa Europe deal.
Hikma dropped 5.2 per cent to £20.52 after the drugmaker warned that US sales of the colchicine generic gout 
medicine had remained weak, which cut consensus earnings forecasts by about 7 per cent.
EasyJet slid 2.1 per cent to £17.13 on a downgrade to "reduce" from HSBC.
A strong summer for the airline should not disguise that capacity growth will accelerate, with 10 per cent more seats 
on European routes expected this winter as Wizz, Norwegian, Vueling and the flag carriers' low-cost brands all try 
to take market share from Ryanair and easyJet, HSBC said.
"The European short-haul market looks inherently unstable, with five companies pursuing the number-three position 
in the industry," said HSBC.
"We also see easyJet's market position under threat from Ryanair's repositioning upmarket. Ryanair is rebranding 
its business, changing the booking and travel experience for the better, entering major airports and launching 
business traveller-friendly routes and schedules. These moves bring the two major carriers into tougher 
competition."
Premier Inn owner Whitbread weakened 1.8 per cent to £47.79 after Numis argued its valuation failed to reflect a 
slowing UK market and stronger competition.
A change of management at Travelodge, Premier Inn's closest peer, means it is back in expansion mode while 
Airbnb presents a disruptive threat that, so far, has been masked by a buoyant market, said Numis. It put a £44.40 
target on Whitbread shares.
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair introduces new route to Berlin
Ryanair introduces new route to Berlin
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 3, 2015 Tuesday 6:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 399 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched a new route to Berlin, which will operate four times weekly, as part of its winter 
and summer schedules.
Body
Scottish consumers and visitors can choose from Ryanair's 10 low fare Glasgow Airport routes next summer and 
can look forward to further improvements, as Ryanair continues its "Always Getting Better" programme, which 
includes new bases, a new personalised website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms and improved 
inflight menus. Ryanair's Sales and Marketing Executive, Lisa Buckley said: "We are pleased to celebrate our first 
flight to Berlin, which will operate 4 times weekly for both the winter and summer schedules. Today, we are also 
celebrating one year of low fares at Glasgow Airport to top European destinations such as Carcassonne, Riga and 
Warsaw. 
"Scottish consumers and visitors can look forward to further improvements in the coming months, including our 
ground breaking personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and real customer 
destination reviews, and improved menus, new cabin crew uniforms and new cabin interiors on board, with more to 
come in Year 3, as we continue to offer so much more than just lowest fares. "To celebrate one year of low fares at 
Glasgow Airport and the start of our route to Berlin, we are releasing seats for sale across our European network at 
fares starting from just GBP19.99 which are available for booking until midnight (3 Nov). Since these amazing low 
prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out." Francois 
Bourienne, Glasgow Airport's commercial director, said: "It is a real pleasure to be celebrating Ryanair's first 
anniversary at Glasgow Airport. The airline has gone from strength-to-strength over the past 12 months, and the 
fact it started with seven routes and has grown to 10, adding additional capacity on a number of its services, 
demonstrates the airline's ambitious plans for growth. "Ryanair's first service to Berlin is already proving incredibly 
popular with customers. The German capital offers the perfect city break destination as it is full of historical, cultural 
and culinary opportunities for leisure travellers. The fact that the city's restaurants boast 19 Michelin stars among 
them makes Berlin officially one of the best places to eat on the planet. "We are looking forward to continuing to 
work closely with the team at Ryanair to ensure it enjoys many more years of success and growth at Glasgow 
Airport."
Ryanair introduces new route to Berlin
Load-Date: November 9, 2015
End of Document
Compass falls on lower appetite for defence London
Compass falls on lower appetite for defence; London
Financial Times (London, England)
November 3, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 21
Length: 383 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Compass was a faller yesterday on worries about deeper spending cuts among its mining and oil customers.
Compass's last update in late July highlighted a slowdown at its defence, offshore and remote division, which last 
year accounted for 12 per cent of the caterer's group profit.
Since then, commodity companies have continued to cut capital expenditure budgets, which suggests the pressure 
on Compass's 2016 and 2017 revenues will be greater than investors have anticipated, said Credit Suisse.
Emerging markets also look to have deteriorated further with a Manpower survey of hiring intentions led lower by 
Brazil, Credit Suisse said.
The broker put a £10.50 target on Compass, which slipped 3.2 per cent to £10.83.
A mixed wider market left the FTSE 100 barely changed, up 0.71 points at 6,361.80. Blue-chip volume was down a 
quarter on the recent daily average.
Glencore rose 2.8 per cent to 115.6p ahead of a production report tomorrow, which investors say could come with 
debt-reduction measures.
Barclays rose 1.7 per cent to 236.1p on Visa's long-awaited $23bn purchase of Visa Europe.
Compass falls on lower appetite for defence London
Barclays is in line for a windfall of about £400m for its stake in Visa Europe, equivalent to a 0.2 per cent boost to its 
core capital ratio, say analysts.
RBS , up 1.7 per cent to 323.1p, and Lloyds Banking Group , ahead 1.7 per cent to 75p, will take about £200m 
each from the Visa Europe deal.
Hikma dropped 5.2 per cent to £20.52 after the drugmaker warned that US sales of the colchicine generic gout 
medicine had remained weak, which cut consensus earnings forecasts by about 7 per cent.
EasyJet slid 2.1 per cent to £17.13 on a downgrade to "reduce" from HSBC.
A strong summer for the airline should not disguise that capacity growth will accelerate, with 10 per cent more seats 
on European routes expected this winter as Wizz, Norwegian, Vueling and the flag carriers' low-cost brands all try 
to take market share from Ryanair and easyJet, HSBC said.
Premier Inn owner Whitbread fell 1.8 per cent to £47.79 after Numis argued its valuation failed to reflect a slowing 
UK market and stronger competition. A change of management at Travelodge, Premier Inn's closest peer, means it 
is back in expansion mode while Airbnb presents a disruptive threat that, so far, has been masked by a buoyant 
market, said Numis.
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
Uber may have a warm welcome, if it plays by the rules Regulation
Uber may have a warm welcome, if it plays by the rules; Regulation
Financial Times (London, England)
November 3, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - DOING BUSINESS IN WALLONIA; Pg. 2
Length: 757 words
Byline: Duncan Robinson
Highlight: Priority is to make sure all companies stay within the law, mayor tells Duncan Robinson and Jim 
Brunsden
Body
Uber has had a rough time in Belgium since arriving in February 2014.
For the next year-and-a-half, Uber drivers in Brussels were repeatedly attacked by angry taxi drivers, faced fines of 
up EUR10,000 from zealous regulators and had their cars impounded.
A protest by the city's licensed taxis gridlocked the city centre. Meanwhile, the company's staff were even followed 
home by aggrieved taxi drivers.
Then, in September, a judge ordered that UberPop - a low-cost service that let part-time drivers ferry people around 
cities - had to stop. Uber took UberPop off the road in October.
Belgium has, in short, been a difficult market for the San Francisco-based group. Undeterred, however, Uber is 
heading south.
Despite the setback in Brussels, the app-based car-hailing service has plans to launch services in Wallonia's 
picturesque capital Namur and Charleroi, the once thriving but now struggling industrial town in southern Belgium.
Uber is likely to face some of the same problems that it suffered in Brussels as established taxi groups are reluctant 
to allow the US group to muscle in. But politicians and regulators are indicating that the service may be welcomed 
provided Uber plays by the rules.
Uber may have a warm welcome, if it plays by the rules Regulation
"In Charleroi, the problem emerged well before Uber because of the airport," says Paul Magnette, Charleroi's 
mayor, who also heads Wallonia's regional government.
Charleroi is home to an airport optimistically called "Brussels South Charleroi", which underplays the hour-long 
travel time between the airport and the EU hub. Even though cheap flights from the likes of Ryanair pour into the 
airport every day, transport links between the airport and Brussels are poor.
Accordingly, long fares to Brussels are a vital and - at EUR60 per trip - lucrative part of the taxi trade in Charleroi, 
which Uber would be keen to undertake.
But Uber would not be the first to try to take on the city's established taxis. Other groups offering unlicensed 
services have already attempted to do so, says Mr Magnette.
"We had a kind of free Uber situation years ago: a black economy of people inventing Uber before Uber, offering 
those services before Uber, and so on," says the mayor. "This has been apparent for quite a number of years."
Mr Magnette says that the priority is to bring alternative services within the scope of regulation. Rather than allow 
taxis to operate on the black market, regulators must ensure that all cabs are safe, efficient and that companies and 
owners pay their taxes. "We are working on how to regulate it, but it's going to happen whatever we do," says Mr 
Magnette.
Namur does not have an airport, but it does have something found in nearly all Belgian cities: terrible traffic. 
Located at the confluence of the Sambre and Meuse rivers in south-east Belgium, the regional capital boosts a 
handsome citadel and gorgeous valley views. It also suffers from clogged roads, with traffic often snarling up in the 
city. Taking cars off the road would help.
But making sure aspiring taxi drivers pay their taxes and social security contributions is essential, says Mr 
Magnette. "The concern for the government is to [allow new companies to operate] but within a legal framework," 
explains the charismatic 44-year-old, who has headed the regional government on behalf of the Parti Socialiste 
(PS) since July 2014.
The relative willingness of PS politicians to consider Uber launching in the region stands in contrast to their role in 
Brussels, where the socialists have been among the loudest critics of Uber's practices in the city. This openness 
comes as Wallonia attempts to shrug off its reputation as being a place where it is difficult to do business.
In a bid to avoid the legal pitfalls that have plagued Uber in Brussels and other cities across Europe, such as 
Amsterdam, Paris and Milan, there have already been meetings between Uber and Wallonia's government.
Uber declined to comment for this article beyond confirming that it was still planning to launch operations in Namur 
and Charleroi, along with other Belgian cities such as Ghent in Flanders.
Wallonia's transport minister Carlo Di Antonio met with the US group in September in Brussels to talk about its 
plans. While Walloon politicians are offering a cautious welcome to the car-hailing service, Uber's reputation for 
launching first and worrying about local rules later has preceded it.
A spokesperson for Mr Di Antonio says Uber could be an "opportunity" for Wallonia, but only if the cab-hailing app 
respects "the rules that apply for mobility, transport and social legislation".
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
On cloud nine: Ryanair profit expected to hit the heights
On cloud nine: Ryanair profit expected to hit the heights
Financial Times (London, England)
November 3, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 196 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Michael Pooler
Body
Ryanair said it expected full-year profit to be towards the upper end of its forecast as it continued to benefit from 
lower fuel prices and higher demand from holidaymakers.
The budget airline yesterday posted a 41 per cent rise in second-quarter net income to EUR843m, excluding an 
exceptional gain of EUR317.5m following the sale of its stake in Irish carrier Aer Lingus to IAG in August.
In September, Ryanair raised its full-year forecast 25 per cent to between EUR1.18bn and EUR1.23bn, thanks to a 
combination of higher air fares and lower fuel costs.
It now expects profits to be at the upper end of the scale after raising its forecast for full-year passenger numbers to 
105m. This is up 1m from its previous target.
"We have enjoyed a bumper summer due to a very rare confluence of favourable events including stronger sterling, 
adverse weather in northern Europe, reasonably flat industry capacity and further savings on unhedged fuel," said 
Michael O'Leary , chief executive.
The company said it expected passengers to reach 180m a year by 2024 - up from its previous forecast of 160m. 
Over that period, it is targeting annual profits of EUR2bn.
Tanya Powley and Michael Pooler
On cloud nine: Ryanair profit expected to hit the heights
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair 's profits soar to over (EURO)1bn
Ryanair's profits soar to over (EURO)1bn
City A.M.
November 3, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 154 words
Byline: CLARA GUIBOURG
Body
PROFITS are soaring for Ryanair, as the low-cost airline expects full year profits to reach the upper end of a range 
which was recently adjusted upwards.
Half-year profits jumped 37 per cent to (EURO)1.09bn (£780m) in the period to 31 October. Revenue was 
(EURO)4.04bn, up 14 per cent from the same period last year.
The airline's traffic has risen 13 per cent to hit 58m passengers. In July the Irish budget airline became the first in 
the EU to have carried more than 10m customers in one month.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said: "We are pleased to report this strong set of first-half results. We have 
enjoyed a bumper summer due to a very rare confluence of favourable events including stronger sterling, adverse 
weather in northern Europe, reasonably flat industry capacity and further savings on our unhedged fuel."
Ryanair is planning to expand in the next year, with new bases in Berlin, Gothenburg, Corfu and Milan.
Graphic
 
Ryanair has enjoyed a bumper summer because of the strong pound and cheap fuel
Ryanair 's profits soar to over (EURO)1bn
Load-Date: November 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair H1 Profit Climbs On Gain, Higher Traffic; Lifts FY16 View
Ryanair H1 Profit Climbs On Gain, Higher Traffic; Lifts FY16 View
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2015 Monday 10:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 469 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Monday significant growth in its first-half 
profit, benefited by gain from Aer Lingus stake sale, and higher traffic and load factor. Looking ahead, the company 
now expects fiscal 2016 adjusted profit towards the upper end of forecast range and also lifted traffic forecast.  For 
the first half, profit before tax climbed to 1.56 billion euros from 907.5 million euros last year. 
The latest results included exceptional accounting gain of 317.5 million euros on sale of Aer Lingus shareholding. 
Adjusted pre-tax profit was 1.24 billion euros, up 37 percent from last year.   Profit after tax increased to 1.41 billion 
euros from 795.0 million euros, a year ago. Earnings per ordinary share in euro cent was 102.66 compared to 57.29 
prior year.  Adjusted profit after tax for the half-year was 1.09 billion euros, compared to 795 million euros, a year 
ago. Adjusted earnings per share were 0.80 euro, compared to 0.57 euro last year.  Revenue was 4.04 billion 
euros, 14 percent higher than 3.54 billion euros, a year ago.  Traffic grew 13 percent to 58.1 million customers from 
last year's 51.3 million, as load factor jumped 4 percent points to 93 percent. Average fares rose 2 percent as unit 
costs fell 6 percent, while ex-fuel unit costs were flat.  Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary, said, 'We have enjoyed a 
bumper summer due to a very rare confluence of favourable events including stronger sterling, adverse weather in 
northern Europe, reasonably flat industry capacity and further savings on our unhedged fuel, as millions of 
customers switched to Ryanair for our Always Getting Better customer experience programme.'  Looking forward, 
the company now expects its full year net profit, pre-exceptions, to be towards the upper end of its 1.175 billion 
euros to 1.225 billion euros range. However, the company cautioned that the guidance is heavily dependent on the 
strength of close-in bookings in fourth-quarter, where it has almost zero visibility yet planning to deliver 22 percent 
traffic growth.  Further, the company has raised its fiscal 2016 traffic target to 105 million from 104 million 
customers due to higher load factors in the second half with third-quarter traffic set to grow 17 percent and fourth 
quarter by 22 percent.   As forward pricing has softened in recent weeks, the company expects third-quarter 
average fares will be broadly flat against last year, but fourth quarter fares, with almost zero visibility, will fall by 
approximately 4 percent.  Looking beyond the current year, based on its stronger than expected load factors, the 
company has raised long term traffic target from 160 million to 180 million customers p.a. by FY24.  In London, 
Ryanair shares were losing 1.63 percent to trade at 13.27 euros.      
Ryanair H1 Profit Climbs On Gain, Higher Traffic; Lifts FY16 View
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
UK Market Hit By China Data
UK Market Hit By China Data
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2015 Monday 11:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 309 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - The UK market was trading lower on Monday afternoon, after unimpressive 
manufacturing data from China hurt resource stocks.  China's official manufacturing PMI came in unchanged at 
49.8 in October and growth in the country's services sector slowed to its lowest level in seven years, while a private 
reading on the country's manufacturing sector contracted for an eighth straight month.   Meanwhile, final data 
published by Markit showed that Eurozone manufacturing activity growth exceeded initial estimate in October. 
The Purchasing Managers' Index for the manufacturing sector rose to 52.3 in October from 52 in September. The 
reading was above the flash score of 52.  The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks and the Stoxx 
Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, were in positive territory.   The FTSE 100 index lost 
about 0.3 percent.  Anglo American declined 2.5 percent. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto dropped 1.1 percent each. 
Randgold Resources fell 1.8 percent.  HSBC, which reported third-quarter results, fell 1.1 percent.  Ryanair was 
moderately lower, even as the Irish airline reported significant growth in its first-half profit.  Other markets in the 
region were trading mostly higher.  The Asian stocks fell broadly after a slew of Chinese data underscored 
persisting weakness in the world's second-largest economy.  In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall 
Street. The major U.S. averages slid around half a percent each on Friday in the wake of mixed earnings and 
disappointing data on consumer sentiment, personal income and spending. However, U.S. stocks ended October 
with their biggest monthly gain in four years on optimism about the economy.   Crude for December delivery rose 
$0.48 to $46.11 per barrel, while December gold fell $3.4 to $1138.0 a troy ounce.      
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
European shares pare losses European shares...
European shares pare losses; European shares...
Business World (Digest)
November 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 444 words
Highlight: European shares reduced losses by mid morning on Monday, with Greece shares outperforming as 
investors welcomed the outcome of European Central Bank (ECB) stress tests on its four main banks.
Body
European shares reduced losses by mid morning on Monday, with Greece shares outperforming as investors 
welcomed the outcome of European Central Bank (ECB) stress tests on its four main banks.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index was up 0.03 percent, off opening lows reached as weak Chinese data 
sparked global growh concerns, while the euro zone's blue-chip Euro STOXX 50 index was up 0.19 percent.
Athens' ATG index rose 1.2 percent, lifted by gains of around 20 percent in Alpha Bank and Eurobank , while 
Piraeus Bank and National Bank of Greece were up more than 5 percent.
The ECB assessment found that the four banks have a collective capital shortfall of 14.4 billion euros, less than the 
25 billion euro maximum earmarked for bank recapitalisation as part of the country's latest bailout programme. "The 
Greek banking stress test results released over the weekend revealed that Greek banks are doing better than 
expected and consequently need less of a cash infusion than originally thought," Peregrine & Black sales trader 
Markus Huber said. Huber said overall sentiment in European stocks remained positive amid expectations of higher 
share prices by the end of the year. In an interview over the weekend, ECB chief Mario Draghi said the central bank 
was ready to do what it takes to keep its medium-term inflation target on course, with analysts widely expecting the 
bank to loosen policy further in December. China's factory activity fell for an eighth straight month in October but at 
a slower pace as export orders flickered into life, a private survey showed on Monday, pointing to continued 
sluggishness in the world's No. 2 economy. Commerzbank rose 4.5 percent after the German bank said it would 
pay a dividend for the first time since 2007 as its recovery gains ground. HSBC fell 1.2 percent in spite of a better 
than expected 32 percent rise in pretax profit for the third quarter thanks to reduced costs. Electrolux dropped 6.6 
percent after the U.S. Justice Department rejected the Swedish appliance maker's offer to settle a fight over 
whether it would be allowed to buy General Electric's appliance business. French carmaker Renault rose 2.2 
percent. According to data published on Sunday, French car registrations rose 1 percent in October, with Renault 
European shares pare losses European shares...
recovering some lost ground while rival PSA Peugeot Citroen saw a fall. Irish airline Ryanair Holdings fell 0.1 
percent despite lifting its profit forecast. Ryanair said fuller planes would take profits to the upper end of its 
previously estimated range, although the company also stated that no more cash would be returned to shareholders 
this year. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair lifts profit forecast after strong performance Ryanair lifts p...
Ryanair lifts profit forecast after strong performance; Ryanair lifts p...
Business World (Digest)
November 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 362 words
Highlight: Ryanair nudged up its annual profit forecast on Monday, saying fuller planes would take profits to the 
upper end of its previously estimated range even as winter competition pressures average ticket prices.
Body
Ryanair nudged up its annual profit forecast on Monday, saying fuller planes would take profits to the upper end of 
its previously estimated range even as winter competition pressures average ticket prices.
The Irish airline, Europe's largest by passenger numbers, raised its full-year profit forecast by 25 percent in early 
September as lower fuel costs and poor weather in northern Europe boosted ticket sales.
On Monday it said fewer empty seats meant it would fly 105 million passengers in the year to March 31, up from an 
earlier forecast of 104 million. That will likely lift profits to the upper end of that 1.175 billion to 1.225 billion-euro 
range.
"We have enjoyed a bumper summer due to a very rare confluence of favorable events including stronger sterling, 
adverse weather in northern Europe, reasonably flat industry capacity and further savings on our unhedged fuel," 
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said. He said, however, that fares sold had softened in recent weeks and that he 
would not be surprised if there was a fare war in the new year, forecasting average fares would fall 4 percent in the 
first three months of 2016. "We are already reducing our prices .. and in recent weeks we have seen most airlines 
reduce their prices," O'Leary said. British Airways owner IAG Lufthansa and Air France-KLM have all reported 
strong quarterly results on strong demand for summer travel and cheaper fuel. But Ryanair's drive to improve 
customer service without increasing its industry-low cost base has given it huge momentum in the past year. Its 
shares closed at 13.48 euros on Friday, up 87 percent on a year ago, compared with an increase of 22 percent on 
the ThomsonReuters Europe Airlines Index. O'Leary said on Monday he expects Ryanair to be flying 180 million 
passengers a year by 2024, up from an earlier forecast of 160 million, which Ryanair estimates would give it a 
market share of around 24 percent in Europe, up from around 14 percent today. That increase was due to a lower 
ratio of empty seats, which was 9 percent in the six months to the end of September, down from 11 percent in the 
same period last year. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair lifts profit forecast after strong performance Ryanair lifts p...
Load-Date: November 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair 's profits soar after 'bumper summer'
Ryanair's profits soar after 'bumper summer'
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2015 Monday 12:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 202 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Europe's largest low-cost airline Ryanair on Monday said its profits rose by 37 per cent 
in the first half of this year as fuel savings, a strong British pound and poor weather in northern Europe gave it a 
'bumper summer.'  The airline recorded profits of 1.09 billion euros (1.2 billion dollars) after tax in the six months 
ending September, said Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive.  'We have enjoyed a bumper summer due to a 
very rare confluence of favourable events including stronger sterling, adverse weather in northern Europe, 
reasonably flat industry capacity and further savings on our unhedged fuel,' O'Leary said in a statement.  Ryanair's 
customer interface programme was also 'driving stronger forward bookings, higher load factors, and accelerating 
our traffic growth,' he said.  O'Leary forecast a rise in passenger numbers to 105 million this year, up 16 per cent 
from 90.6 million in the year to March.  The Irish-based airline's financial results did not include a gain from the 
recent sale of its stake in Aer Lingus.  In May, Ryanair announced full-year profits of 867 million euros in 2014, up 
66 per cent from the previous financial year.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Rise After Eurozone Manufacturing Growth Exceeds Estimate
European Markets Rise After Eurozone Manufacturing Growth Exceeds 
Estimate
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2015 Monday 1:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 394 words
Body
       PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets were mostly higher on Monday, after final data published by Markit 
showed that Eurozone manufacturing activity growth exceeded initial estimate in October.  The Purchasing 
Managers' Index for the manufacturing sector rose to 52.3 in October from 52 in September. The reading was 
above the flash score of 52.  Meanwhile, China's official manufacturing PMI came in unchanged at 49.8 in October 
and growth in the country's services sector slowed to its lowest level in seven years, while a private reading on the 
country's manufacturing sector contracted for an eighth straight month. 
  The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks and the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major 
U.K. companies, were in positive territory.   The German DAX was moderately higher, while the French CAC 40 
made modest gains. Switzerland's SMI rose marginally, while The FTSE 100 index of the U.K. fell about 0.4 
percent.  In Frankfurt, Commerzbank climbed 5.5 percent after reporting third-quarter results.  RWE rose about 2 
percent while E.ON was modestly higher.  Meanwhile, Deutsche Boerse fell 1 percent. Merck, Beiersdorf and K+S 
fell moderately.  In Paris, Renault gained 2.4 percent while Peugeot advanced fractionally.  Credit Agricole 
advanced 2 percent, while Societe Generale rose 0.6 percent. BNP Paribas was marginally lower.  Vivendi, Technip 
and Total fell between 0.6 percent and 0.7 percent.   In London, Anglo American dropped 2.5 percent. BHP Billiton 
and Rio Tinto dropped 1.1 percent each. Randgold Resources fell 1.8 percent.  HSBC, which reported third-quarter 
results, fell 1.1 percent.  Ryanair was moderately lower, even as the Irish airline reported significant growth in its 
first-half profit.  The Asian stocks fell broadly after a slew of Chinese data underscored persisting weakness in the 
world's second-largest economy.  In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall Street. The major U.S. 
averages slid around half a percent each on Friday in the wake of mixed earnings and disappointing data on 
consumer sentiment, personal income and spending. However, U.S. stocks ended October with their biggest 
monthly gain in four years on optimism about the economy.   Crude for December delivery fell $0.77 to $45.82 per 
barrel, while December gold fell $4.5 to $1136.9 a troy ounce.      
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
European Markets Rise After Eurozone Manufacturing Growth Exceeds Estimate
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for November 2nd 2015
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for November 2nd 2015
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2015 Monday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 273 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Monday, November 2nd 2015  ^ DATA RELEASES 
02:45 CHN: Caixin PMI Manufacturing 10/15 07:00 IRL: Ryanair                                  Half Year Results 07:00 D:   
Commerzbank                              Q3  (Call 10.30 h) 09:45 I:   PMI Manufacturing 10/15 09:50 F:   PMI 
Manufacturing 10/15            (2nd est.) 09:55 D:   PMI Manufacturing 10/15            (2nd est.) 10:00 EU:  PMI 
Manufacturing 10/15            (2nd est.) 
10:00 D:   VDMA Machineries order intake 09/15 10:30 GB:  PMI Manufacturing 10/15 11:00 NL:  Bills            
Maturity: 3, 6 Months            Size: 4 bln EUR 14:50 F:   Bills            Maturity: 3, 6 And 12 Months            Size: 7.4 
bln Euro 15:45 USA: Markit PMI Manufacturing 10/15            (2nd est.) 16:00 USA: Construction Spending 09/15 
16:00 USA: ISM-Index Manufacturing 10/15 22:00 USA: Visa                                     Q4   MORE DATA RELEASES 
WITH NO TIME SPECIFIED       D:   Deutsche B\xF6rse                           Trading statistics 10/15       D:   Audi                  
Q3         GB:  HSBC Holdings                            Q3 Interim Statement       J:   Nissan                                   Q2        
NL:  PostNL                                   Q3        USA: Fitbit                                   Q3        USA: American International 
Group (AIG)       Q3 \xB0  While all data were researched with the greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten 
GmbH assumes no liability for the correctness of this information. All time designations are provided in CET.  
Copyright dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
UK Market Hit By China Data
UK Market Hit By China Data
RTT News (United States)
November 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 319 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market was trading lower on Monday afternoon, after unimpressive manufacturing data from 
China hurt resource stocks.
China's official manufacturing PMI came in unchanged at 49.8 in October and growth in the country's services 
sector slowed to its lowest level in seven years, while a private reading on the country's manufacturing sector 
contracted for an eighth straight month.
Meanwhile, final data published by Markit showed that Eurozone manufacturing activity growth exceeded initial 
estimate in October. The Purchasing Managers' Index for the manufacturing sector rose to 52.3 in October from 52 
in September. The reading was above the flash score of 52.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks and the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major 
U.K. companies, were in positive territory.
The FTSE 100 index lost about 0.3 percent.
Anglo American declined 2.5 percent. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto dropped 1.1 percent each. Randgold Resources 
fell 1.8 percent.
HSBC, which reported third-quarter results, fell 1.1 percent.
Ryanair was moderately lower, even as the Irish airline reported significant growth in its first-half profit.
Other markets in the region were trading mostly higher.
The Asian stocks fell broadly after a slew of Chinese data underscored persisting weakness in the world's second-
largest economy.
In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall Street. The major U.S. averages slid around half a percent 
each on Friday in the wake of mixed earnings and disappointing data on consumer sentiment, personal income and 
spending. However, U.S. stocks ended October with their biggest monthly gain in four years on optimism about the 
economy.
Crude for December delivery rose $0.48 to $46.11 per barrel, while December gold fell $3.4 to $1138.0 a troy 
ounce.
UK Market Hit By China Data
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Overcame Early Weakness On Manufacturing Data
European Markets Overcame Early Weakness On Manufacturing Data
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2015 Monday 5:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 809 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - The European markets got off to a weak start Monday, due to the disappointing 
manufacturing data reported by China. However, the markets reversed direction after the better than expected 
Eurozone manufacturing report. The European markets ended the first session of the new trading week in the 
green. Bank stocks were in focus, due to news from HSBC and Commerzbank. 
 China's manufacturing sector continued to contract in October but at the slowest pace in four months, survey 
results published by Caixin and Markit Economics showed Monday. The manufacturing Purchasing Managers' 
Index rose to 48.3 in October from 47.2 in September. Nonetheless, it was below the expected neutral level of 50.  
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased 0.48 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 0.26 percent.  The DAX of Germany climbed 0.93 percent and 
the CAC 40 of France rose 0.38 percent. The FTSE of the U.K. gained 0.01 percent, but the SMI of Switzerland 
finished lower by 0.03  percent.  In Frankfurt, Commerzbank climbed 6.84 percent after reporting third-quarter 
results. Commerzbank also announced that its Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors and Chief Executive 
Office, Martin Blessing, has informed the company that he would fulfill his contract running until the end of October 
2016, but would not accept the offer to extend his term.  Deutsche Bank also added 1.65 percent.  RWE advanced 
3.79 percent and E.ON gained 1.05 percent.   Volkswagen increased 3.20 percent and Daimler rose 1 percent. 
BMW also finished higher by 1.11 percent.  In Paris, Renault climbed 4.22 percent and Peugeot added 1.62 
percent. Credit Agricole rose 1.52 percent and Societe Generale gained 0.98 percent.  In London, HSBC, which 
reported third-quarter results, fell 0.81 percent. Shire declined 0.81 percent, after it agreed to acquire Dyax Corp. for 
$5.9 billion.  Hikma Pharmaceuticals lost 5.18 percent, after it reduced its forecast for its generics business.  
EasyJet surrendered 2.11 percent, after HSBC downgraded its rating on the stock to 'Reduce' from 'Hold.'  Ryanair 
gained 3.22 percent in Dublin, after the airline reported significant growth in its first-half profit.  Electrolux dropped 
5.40 percent in Stockholm. The U.S. Department of Justice has rejected the company's proposal to acquire the 
appliance business from General Electric.  Eurozone manufacturing activity growth exceeded initial estimate in 
October, final data published by Markit showed Monday. The Purchasing Managers' Index for the manufacturing 
sector rose to 52.3 in October from 52 in September. The reading was above the flash score of 52.  Germany's 
manufacturing sector grew at the slowest pace in three months in October, final data from Markit showed Monday. 
European Markets Overcame Early Weakness On Manufacturing Data
Nonetheless, the pace of growth exceeded initial estimate. The headline factory Purchasing Managers' Index slid to 
52.1 in October from 52.3 in September as production and employment growth slowed. The reading was above the 
flash score of 51.6.  The French manufacturing sector logged a slight growth in October, final data published by 
Markit showed Monday. The manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index remained unchanged at 50.6 in October. It 
was slightly below the flash score of 50.7.  British manufacturing activity expanded at the fastest pace in sixteen 
months in October, as output and new order growth accelerated, figures from the Chartered Institute of 
Procurement & Supply and Markit Economics showed Monday.  The seasonally adjusted Purchasing Managers' 
Index, or PMI, climbed notably to 55.5 in October from 51.8 in September, which was revised down from 51.5. 
Economists had expected the index to fall slightly to 51.3.  Activity in the U.S. manufacturing sector saw a slight 
expansion in the month of October, according to a report released by the Institute for Supply Management on 
Monday.  The ISM said its purchasing managers index edged down to 50.1 in October from 50.2 in September, 
although a reading above 50 still indicates growth in the manufacturing sector. Economists had expected the index 
to dip to 50.0.  With spending in private and public construction both increasing, the Commerce Department 
released a report on Monday showing that U.S. construction spending rose more than expected in September.  The 
report said construction spending climbed 0.6 percent to an annual rate of $1.094 trillion in September from the 
revised August estimate of $1.088 trillion. Economists had expected spending to rise by 0.4 percent.  Switzerland's 
retail sales grew for the first time in three months during September, figures from the Federal Statistical Office 
showed Monday. Total retail sales rose 0.1 percent from August, when they declined 0.2 percent. In July, sales fell 
0.1 percent.      
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Rise After Eurozone Manufacturing Growth Exceeds Estimate
European Markets Rise After Eurozone Manufacturing Growth Exceeds 
Estimate
RTT News (United States)
November 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 402 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets were mostly higher on Monday, after final data published by Markit showed 
that Eurozone manufacturing activity growth exceeded initial estimate in October.
The Purchasing Managers' Index for the manufacturing sector rose to 52.3 in October from 52 in September. The 
reading was above the flash score of 52.
Meanwhile, China's official manufacturing PMI came in unchanged at 49.8 in October and growth in the country's 
services sector slowed to its lowest level in seven years, while a private reading on the country's manufacturing 
sector contracted for an eighth straight month.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks and the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major 
U.K. companies, were in positive territory.
The German DAX was moderately higher, while the French CAC 40 made modest gains. Switzerland's SMI rose 
marginally, while The FTSE 100 index of the U.K. fell about 0.4 percent.
In Frankfurt, Commerzbank climbed 5.5 percent after reporting third-quarter results.
RWE rose about 2 percent while E.ON was modestly higher.
Meanwhile, Deutsche Boerse fell 1 percent. Merck, Beiersdorf and K+S fell moderately.
In Paris, Renault gained 2.4 percent while Peugeot advanced fractionally.
Credit Agricole advanced 2 percent, while Societe Generale rose 0.6 percent. BNP Paribas was marginally lower.
Vivendi, Technip and Total fell between 0.6 percent and 0.7 percent.
In London, Anglo American dropped 2.5 percent. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto dropped 1.1 percent each. Randgold 
Resources fell 1.8 percent.
HSBC, which reported third-quarter results, fell 1.1 percent.
Ryanair was moderately lower, even as the Irish airline reported significant growth in its first-half profit.
European Markets Rise After Eurozone Manufacturing Growth Exceeds Estimate
The Asian stocks fell broadly after a slew of Chinese data underscored persisting weakness in the world's second-
largest economy.
In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall Street. The major U.S. averages slid around half a percent 
each on Friday in the wake of mixed earnings and disappointing data on consumer sentiment, personal income and 
spending. However, U.S. stocks ended October with their biggest monthly gain in four years on optimism about the 
economy.
Crude for December delivery fell $0.77 to $45.82 per barrel, while December gold fell $4.5 to $1136.9 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair H1 Profit Climbs On Gain, Higher Traffic; Lifts FY16 View
Ryanair H1 Profit Climbs On Gain, Higher Traffic; Lifts FY16 View
RTT News (United States)
November 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 479 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Monday significant growth in its first-half profit, 
benefited by gain from Aer Lingus stake sale, and higher traffic and load factor. Looking ahead, the company now 
expects fiscal 2016 adjusted profit towards the upper end of forecast range and also lifted traffic forecast.
For the first half, profit before tax climbed to 1.56 billion euros from 907.5 million euros last year. The latest results 
included exceptional accounting gain of 317.5 million euros on sale of Aer Lingus shareholding. Adjusted pre-tax 
profit was 1.24 billion euros, up 37 percent from last year.
Profit after tax increased to 1.41 billion euros from 795.0 million euros, a year ago. Earnings per ordinary share in 
euro cent was 102.66 compared to 57.29 prior year.
Adjusted profit after tax for the half-year was 1.09 billion euros, compared to 795 million euros, a year ago. Adjusted 
earnings per share were 0.80 euro, compared to 0.57 euro last year.
Revenue was 4.04 billion euros, 14 percent higher than 3.54 billion euros, a year ago.
Traffic grew 13 percent to 58.1 million customers from last year's 51.3 million, as load factor jumped 4 percent 
points to 93 percent. Average fares rose 2 percent as unit costs fell 6 percent, while ex-fuel unit costs were flat.
Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary, said, "We have enjoyed a bumper summer due to a very rare confluence of 
favourable events including stronger sterling, adverse weather in northern Europe, reasonably flat industry capacity 
and further savings on our unhedged fuel, as millions of customers switched to Ryanair for our Always Getting 
Better customer experience programme."
Looking forward, the company now expects its full year net profit, pre-exceptions, to be towards the upper end of its 
1.175 billion euros to 1.225 billion euros range. However, the company cautioned that the guidance is heavily 
dependent on the strength of close-in bookings in fourth-quarter, where it has almost zero visibility yet planning to 
deliver 22 percent traffic growth.
Further, the company has raised its fiscal 2016 traffic target to 105 million from 104 million customers due to higher 
load factors in the second half with third-quarter traffic set to grow 17 percent and fourth quarter by 22 percent.
As forward pricing has softened in recent weeks, the company expects third-quarter average fares will be broadly 
flat against last year, but fourth quarter fares, with almost zero visibility, will fall by approximately 4 percent.
Ryanair H1 Profit Climbs On Gain, Higher Traffic; Lifts FY16 View
Looking beyond the current year, based on its stronger than expected load factors, the company has raised long 
term traffic target from 160 million to 180 million customers p.a. by FY24.
In London, Ryanair shares were losing 1.63 percent to trade at 13.27 euros.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Overcame Early Weakness On Manufacturing Data
European Markets Overcame Early Weakness On Manufacturing Data
RTT News (United States)
November 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 815 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets got off to a weak start Monday, due to the disappointing manufacturing data 
reported by China. However, the markets reversed direction after the better than expected Eurozone manufacturing 
report. The European markets ended the first session of the new trading week in the green. Bank stocks were in 
focus, due to news from HSBC and Commerzbank.
China's manufacturing sector continued to contract in October but at the slowest pace in four months, survey 
results published by Caixin and Markit Economics showed Monday. The manufacturing Purchasing Managers' 
Index rose to 48.3 in October from 47.2 in September. Nonetheless, it was below the expected neutral level of 50.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased 0.48 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 0.26 percent.
The DAX of Germany climbed 0.93 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose 0.38 percent. The FTSE of the U.K. 
gained 0.01 percent, but the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.03 percent.
In Frankfurt, Commerzbank climbed 6.84 percent after reporting third-quarter results. Commerzbank also 
announced that its Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors and Chief Executive Office, Martin Blessing, has 
informed the company that he would fulfill his contract running until the end of October 2016, but would not accept 
the offer to extend his term.
Deutsche Bank also added 1.65 percent.
RWE advanced 3.79 percent and E.ON gained 1.05 percent.
Volkswagen increased 3.20 percent and Daimler rose 1 percent. BMW also finished higher by 1.11 percent.
In Paris, Renault climbed 4.22 percent and Peugeot added 1.62 percent.Credit Agricole rose 1.52 percent and 
Societe Generale gained 0.98 percent.
In London, HSBC, which reported third-quarter results, fell 0.81 percent.Shire declined 0.81 percent, after it agreed 
to acquire Dyax Corp. for $5.9 billion.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals lost 5.18 percent, after it reduced its forecast for its generics business.
EasyJet surrendered 2.11 percent, after HSBC downgraded its rating on the stock to "Reduce" from "Hold."
European Markets Overcame Early Weakness On Manufacturing Data
Ryanair gained 3.22 percent in Dublin, after the airline reported significant growth in its first-half profit.
Electrolux dropped 5.40 percent in Stockholm. The U.S. Department of Justice has rejected the company's 
proposal to acquire the appliance business from General Electric.
Eurozone manufacturing activity growth exceeded initial estimate in October, final data published by Markit showed 
Monday. The Purchasing Managers' Index for the manufacturing sector rose to 52.3 in October from 52 in 
September. The reading was above the flash score of 52.
Germany's manufacturing sector grew at the slowest pace in three months in October, final data from Markit 
showed Monday. Nonetheless, the pace of growth exceeded initial estimate. The headline factory Purchasing 
Managers' Index slid to 52.1 in October from 52.3 in September as production and employment growth slowed. The 
reading was above the flash score of 51.6.
The French manufacturing sector logged a slight growth in October, final data published by Markit showed Monday. 
The manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index remained unchanged at 50.6 in October. It was slightly below the 
flash score of 50.7.
British manufacturing activity expanded at the fastest pace in sixteen months in October, as output and new order 
growth accelerated, figures from the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply and Markit Economics showed 
Monday.
The seasonally adjusted Purchasing Managers' Index, or PMI, climbed notably to 55.5 in October from 51.8 in 
September, which was revised down from 51.5. Economists had expected the index to fall slightly to 51.3.
Activity in the U.S. manufacturing sector saw a slight expansion in the month of October, according to a report 
released by the Institute for Supply Management on Monday.
The ISM said its purchasing managers index edged down to 50.1 in October from 50.2 in September, although a 
reading above 50 still indicates growth in the manufacturing sector. Economists had expected the index to dip to 
50.0.
With spending in private and public construction both increasing, the Commerce Department released a report on 
Monday showing that U.S. construction spending rose more than expected in September.
The report said construction spending climbed 0.6 percent to an annual rate of $1.094 trillion in September from the 
revised August estimate of $1.088 trillion. Economists had expected spending to rise by 0.4 percent.
Switzerland's retail sales grew for the first time in three months during September, figures from the Federal 
Statistical Office showed Monday. Total retail sales rose 0.1 percent from August, when they declined 0.2 percent. 
In July, sales fell 0.1 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
CATEGORY BUSINESS OF THE YEAR
CATEGORY BUSINESS OF THE YEAR
City A.M.
November 2, 2015 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 15
Length: 485 words
Body
Celebrating the best in the business The FTSE 100 may have endured a volatile and - so far - disappointing year, 
but away from the woes of miners and oil blue-chips, many businesses are thriving. In these nominations we hail a 
housebuilder, an airline, a couple of tech firms, and a German retailer that just won't stop making life difficult for 
Britain's supermarket giants.
SECURE YOUR TABLE NOW Wednesday 25 November 2015 Grange St Paul's Hotel Contact Lillian Swatton on 
020 3201 8900
THE NOMINEES
LIDL Lidl continues to steal a march on the "big four" supermarket giants, achieving a new market share high in 
2015. An aggressive expansion plan, including more affluent areas, will add to its existing 620 stores across 
England, Scotland and Wales. And it's not just customers who are benefitting - - on 1 October, the German-owned 
chain became the first UK supermarket to adopt the Living Wage, at an annual cost of £9m, following a record year 
of sales, which topped £4bn.
RYANAIR Love it or loathe it, there's no denying Ryanair has had a great 30th year. The budget carrier surprised 
investors - - and itself - - in September when it raised its full-year profit forecast by 25 per cent. Shares hit an all 
time high following the results. A cold northern European summer meant holiday-makers sought warmer weather. 
And, while rivals also got a boost, none fared so well as the Irish airline, whose customer service improvements and 
increased capacity are driving its strong performance.
UBER Despite facing political hostility throughout the world, Uber's valuation continues to soar. A fundraising round 
in the summer valued the car-hiring app at a whopping $50bn. The company has toned down its aggressive 
approach towards regulators and adversaries and is now trying to work with city authorities to help ease congestion 
CATEGORY BUSINESS OF THE YEAR
and improve transport. It is also investing in driverless technology and clearly has ambitions beyond simply ferrying 
passengers from A to B.
CREST NICHOLSON The last year has been an excellent time to own shares in Crest Nicholson. The 
housebuilder's stock has climbed nearly 50 per cent in 2015, and the firm has shown that it's more than happy to 
keep dishing out dividends. Fellow housebuilders, including several larger rivals, have also done well, but Crest 
Nicholson has punched above its weight, boldly aligning itself with the private rental sector by signing deals with 
firms such as M&G and A2Dominion.
INMARSAT Wouldn't it be great to get high speed broadband every time you jump on a boat, plane or train? British 
tech darling Inmarsat hopes this will soon become a reality; it recently launched the third satellite of its Global 
Xpress system, and also signed a deal with Deutsche Telekom to offer in-flight highspeed internet access. And it's 
not just the satellites that are taking off: Inmarsat's shares have rocketed by more than 20 per cent since the turn of 
the year.
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair H1 Profit Rises
Ryanair H1 Profit Rises
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2015 Monday 8:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 185 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported that its first-half profit after tax increased 
to 1.41 billion euros from 795.0 million euros, a year ago. Earnings per ordinary share in euro cent was 102.66 
compared to 57.29 prior year. Adjusted profit after tax for the half-year rose 37% to 1.09 billion euros from 795.0 
million euros, a year ago.   Revenue was 4.04 billion euros compared to 3.54 billion euros, a year ago. Traffic grew 
13% to 58 million as load factor jumped 4% points to 93%.  Looking forward, the Group has raised its fiscal 2016 
traffic target from 104 million to 105 million customers due to higher load factors in the second half with third-quarter 
traffic set to grow 17% and fourth quarter by 22%.   The Group now guides that full year net profit (pre-exceptions) 
will be towards the upper end of its 1.175 billion euros to 1.225 billion euros range.  However, the company 
cautioned that the guidance is heavily dependent on the strength of close-in bookings in fourth-quarter, where it has 
almost zero visibility yet planning to deliver 22% traffic growth.      
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
German budget carrier takes on competitors with flight to Cuba
German budget carrier takes on competitors with flight to Cuba
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2015 Monday 3:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 147 words
Body
       Cologne, GERMANY (dpa-AFX) - German air carrier Eurowings launched its first flight to Cuba Monday, as the 
Lufthansa subsidiary expands its low-cost business plan to include long-haul flights.  The new offering comes as 
Lufthansa is in the process of merging its two lost-cost carriers - Eurowings and Germanwings - under the single 
Eurowings brand.  By expanding its no-frills flight offerings well beyond the European continent, Lufthansa hopes to 
be able to compete with the likes of Easyjet and Ryanair.  To that end, the company launched the Airbus A330 from 
the Cologne-Bonn airport at 11:20 am (1020 GMT), with a destination of Varadero in Cuba.  Eurowings currently 
flies to 130 European destinations and eight overseas ones.  Lufthansa board member Karl Ulrich Garnadt said that 
bookings registered for the company have so far exceeded expectations.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair H1 Profit Rises - Quick Facts
Ryanair H1 Profit Rises - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
November 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 198 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported that its first-half profit after tax increased to 1.41 billion 
euros from 795.0 million euros, a year ago. Earnings per ordinary share in euro cent was 102.66 compared to 57.29 
prior year. Adjusted profit after tax for the half-year rose 37% to 1.09 billion euros from 795.0 million euros, a year 
ago.
Revenue was 4.04 billion euros compared to 3.54 billion euros, a year ago. Traffic grew 13% to 58 million as load 
factor jumped 4% points to 93%.
Looking forward, the Group has raised its fiscal 2016 traffic target from 104 million to 105 million customers due to 
higher load factors in the second half with third-quarter traffic set to grow 17% and fourth quarter by 22%.
The Group now guides that full year net profit (pre-exceptions) will be towards the upper end of its 1.175 billion 
euros to 1.225 billion euros range. However, the company cautioned that the guidance is heavily dependent on the 
strength of close-in bookings in fourth-quarter, where it has almost zero visibility yet planning to deliver 22% traffic 
growth.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 2, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
November 1, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 447 words
Byline: Emma Kennedy and Fearghal O'Connor
Body
Ulster Bank results a 'mixed bag'
Ulster Bank's parent company, RBS, last week reported its latest results, revealing a £5 million drop in net interest 
income at Ulster Bank for the third quarter. 
According to analysis by Davy, Ulster Bank's quarterly performance continues to be "impacted by unfavourable 
comparisons versus the prior year due to the significant impairment releases in Q3 2014 and lower income 
following changes to the treatment of liquid assets". 
"Nonetheless, the results point to an ongoing improvement in the underlying business with increases in lending 
volumes and continued declines in deposit costs," Davy noted. 
However, Goodbody noted that Ulster Bank "indicates that while deposit margins continue to steadily improve, new 
business lending margins have begun to tighten across the market". 
"The results for Ulster Bank are a mixed bag in terms of read-through for the other Irish banks. The continued 
positive impairment write-back experience is helpful for similar trends at the main Irish banks," Goodbody said. 
Interest rates weigh on Danske
Danske Bank's latest results lagged behind expectations, with the bank saying that the current interest rate 
environment presented a challenge. 
The Danish bank reported pre-tax profit of 4.72 billion Danish kroner ((EURO)632 million) for the three months to 
September, up by 5 per cent from a year ago, but lagging forecasts. 
Boardroom Briefing
Danske Bank Ireland released a statement on the bank's latest financial results, with country manager Terry 
Browne saying that the bank's corporate and institutional business in Ireland "continues to benefit from the strong 
performance of the Irish economy". 
"We continue to see our C&I business grow year on year," Browne said. 
Aryzta board gets shake-up
Irish-Swiss food group Aryzta, which recently announced plans to sell off its stake in agri-services company Origin 
Enterprises, has unveiled plans to overhaul its board. 
The food group will hold its annual general meeting on December 8 and has announced that this will be the last 
year that Denis Lucey will seek re-election as chairman. 
"A new candidate for the chair will be proposed by the board at the 2016 agm," the company said in a statement 
last week. 
Aryzta also announced a number of other board changes, and unveiled plans to establish a new governance and 
nomination committee "immediately following the 2015 agm". 
The week ahead
Ryanair will publish its first-half results tomorrow, and Kerry Group is due to publish an interim management 
statement on Tuesday. Packaging giant Smurfit Kappa will release its 2015 third quarter results on Wednesday, 
and Glanbia will publish an interim management statement on the same day.
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Gardening for the future, not for the quick fix
Gardening for the future, not for the quick fix
Sunday Business Post
November 1, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 825 words
Byline: Ali Rochford
Highlight: Plan ahead and do your plant homework
Body
Oliver and Liat Schurmann, owners of the highly regarded Mount Venus nursery in Rathfarnham in Dublin, believe 
we need to radically rethink our way of gardening. 
Fifteen years ago they set up their nursery specialising in interesting, hard working and hardy plants. Sourcing 
plants from nurseries abroad, collecting seed in the wild and from botanical gardens, they then trialled a huge 
variety of plants for suitability to the Irish climate before offering them for sale. 
A bowl of floating seasonal flowers welcomes visitors to the nursery. Dotted around the walled garden are 
whimsical features that are reminiscent of the many show gardens the couple have staged over the years. A girl lies 
in a bed of moss under an apple tree; a metal owl sculpture has two flowers placed in his eye sockets that seem to 
bring him to life. 
Growing around the walls and in the gravel areas are plants that are for sale nearby. 
An old Gingko biloba, a Dove tree, and near the glasshouse a Sanguisorba with an entertaining name - Stand-Up 
Comedian - are a few that attract attention. 
Right in the middle of the sales beds are fine maples and an Aralia continentalis with beautiful black stems and 
delicate ivy like flowers. 
Oliver Schurmann stresses the importance of creating planting schemes that have longevity and that will mature 
sympathetically. This involves a lot of planning ahead and doing your plant homework. 
Garden designers often stick to the same palette of plants, but in Schurmann's opinion, they should be more 
adventurous. 
Gardening for the future, not for the quick fix
Rather than focusing on instant gardens, the focus should be on putting together schemes with a future, taking into 
account the existing conditions and the needs of individual plants. 
The aim is to create plant societies that will develop their own dynamic over the years using a plant palette that will 
balance out as shrubs and trees grow and conditions change. 
You might say it's an approach that is more Little House on the Prairie, where everyone gets along, and less Big 
Brother, where the showiest and most uninhibited take over. 
Schurmann believes we overfeed our plants, that we have to master how to feed less and to be more patient. 
Yes, roses and vegetables demand a regime of feeding and spacing, but the plants he focuses on are more 
sustainable and self-reliant. 
An important aspect of planting this way is soil preparation. Manuring ground encourages plants to root shallowly. 
But by digging down deep and mixing the subsoil with the top soil, you create a homogeneous reservoir of nutrition 
that encourages roots to grow down rather than out. 
Creating root systems that go down vertically means plants can be planted closer together and it allows them to 
collect minerals from deep down in the soil. 
It also means they are less susceptible to drought. Schurmann jokingly likens this planting process to what Michael 
O'Leary would happily do with Ryanair passengers - have them stand up to fit more in. 
As a nurseryman, Schurmann is not a fan of selling plants in larger pots than necessary. While plants sold in bigger 
pots satiate the customers' needs for size, the reality is that this is not the best way to introduce plants to your 
garden. He has referred to some of these plants as 'spoilt brat plants', that have been cosseted and overfed, often 
sulk and won't establish well when planted into the garden. 
Plants in smaller pots are easier to plant and establish more quickly as they are happy to get into the soil and put 
down their roots. 
In addition, we must not only think about whether plants are compatible above ground, but also how they associate 
below ground. 
For this reason Schurmann doesn't recommend Birch trees as they are shallow rooted and also root horizontally, 
which limits the diversity of underplanting and are not good for small gardens. As alternatives, he suggests deep 
rooting trees with multiple interest such as Acer griseum, which has scarlet leaves in autumn and peeling cinnamon 
coloured bark. 
Cornus kousa and Japanese Maples are also favourites. 
Box hedging is also a killer for diversity as it sucks moisture and nutrients out of the ground. He recommends going 
along with a spade and chopping the roots back so they don't interfere as much with other nearby plants. 
Another idea that Oliver uses is three dimensional planting - instead of having tall plants at the back and short 
plants at the front, bring some transparent airy plants to the front, so you can look through them and the planting 
beyond is framed by flowers and stalks such as Gillenia trifoliata, Verbena and Sanguisorba. 
He likes to think of some flowers as clouds or parachutes hovering over the planting rather than blocks and 
splashes of colour. 
So if you want your planting schemes to reach new horticultural heights, take a visit to Mount Venus, it is the 
headspring of diverse and interesting planting. 
It is open by appointment from November to January; for details, see mountvenusnursery.com. 
Gardening for the future, not for the quick fix
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair acquires 737-800
Ryanair acquires 737-800
AirFinance Journal
November 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 99 words
Highlight: Irish carrier funds jet through combination of cash and bond proceeds.
Body
Irish LCC Ryanair has acquired a new 737-800, its 375th delivery of the aircraft.
Airfinance Journal understands that the jet was financed through a combination of cash and capital markets 
proceeds raised by Ryanair's â,¬850 million Eurobond that priced in March 2015.
Ryanair is the largest Next Generation 737-800 customer in the world having ordered more than 530 of the airplane 
type. As well as 100 737 Max 200s, the carrier also has more than 150 unfilled orders for 737-800s.
To see all ofRyanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: November 30, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair wins big at Blog Awards
Ryanair wins big at Blog Awards
Sunday Business Post
November 1, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Byline: Emmet Ryan
Body
Ryanair and Two Coffee Beans took the top prizes at Blog Awards Ireland. The two sites were named Blog of the 
Year for company and personal blogs respectively. 
Ryanair also took the title for best travel blog, while Two Coffee Beans won the photography category. 
The awards, held at the Tivoli Theatre in Dublin, were hosted by Clare Cullen and Darragh Doyle, and the event 
had a burlesque theme. 
"We would like to congratulate all of the finalists and winners at the Blog Awards Ireland. We had 500 bloggers at 
the awards on Thursday, October 22, which shows that Ireland has a passionate and vibrant blogging community," 
Tracey Carney, event director of Blog Awards Ireland, told Connected. 
Other winners on the night included Blacknight Solutions in the digital and technology category, The AA for best 
automotive blog, and MediaHQ in the marketing and communications category. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
IAG: long haul
IAG: long haul
Financial Times (London, England)
October 31, 2015 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 18
Length: 321 words
Body
Profits beat forecasts. Expectations were upgraded . Dividends were restarted . It all added up to a good week at 
the office for Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG - until the airline holding company's shares fell 4 per cent 
yesterday, the day all this happy news was announced. IAG is not alone. Lufthansa had a similar reaction to good 
news this week.
Profit-taking? Hardly. Shares in traditional airlines have had a good run - IAG is up nearly 50 per cent over the past 
year, against an index that is flat - but they are not expensive. IAG is the priciest of the traditional European 
carriers; its market value plus its debt is four times this year's forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation. No-frills rival Ryanair trades at twice that.
Nor is it the case that all the good news is out. IAG's restructuring of Spanish carrier Iberia is a work in progress - its 
costs, relative to capacity, are still 27 per cent higher than those of stablemate British Airways - and it has barely got 
started with newly acquired Aer Lingus . IAG's fuel bill will continue falling throughout 2016 as its hedges unwind 
(although the effects of a stronger dollar may offset some of the benefit).
But the market reaction suggests that investors would still rather pay a higher price for shares in low-cost carriers 
that deliver more consistent performance than ride a profit upswing at legacy airlines that turns out to be just as 
cyclical as the last one, and the one before that.
They are right to do so. Consolidation among flag carriers has resulted in better capacity discipline, and they are 
getting to grips with absurdly generous pension arrangements . But low-cost airlines were never burdened with 
IAG: long haul
such issues, and it shows; since 2008, Ryanair has spent EUR3.3bn on dividends and share buybacks. That is 
equivalent to a fifth of IAG's market value. No wonder the discounters get the benefit of the doubt.
Load-Date: October 30, 2015
End of Document
IAG revises up 2015 profit and rules out more deals Airlines
IAG revises up 2015 profit and rules out more deals; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
October 31, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 18
Length: 441 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Shares in International Airlines Group, the owner of British Airways, fell yesterday after a raised earnings target for 
2015 fell short of analysts' expectations.
IAG said it now expected to generate a slightly higher operating profit of between EUR2.25bn and EUR2.3bn for the 
full year, excluding newly acquired Aer Lingus, up from its previous target of more than EUR2.2bn.
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said the minor improvement to IAG guidance might disappoint, given recent 
improved profit targets posted by European rivals, such as Ryanair and easyJet. Last month, Ryanair increased its 
full-year guidance by 25 per cent.
Shares in IAG fell 2.5 per cent to close at 582.5p in London.
Willie Walsh , IAG's chief executive, said the group did not believe in holding back information to surprise people. 
"We're just narrowing the [earnings target] range to the top end of [guidance]," he added. "We've probably become 
a little bit predictable now because we just deliver what we say we will deliver."
It comes a day after IAG announced plans to make the first dividend payment in its four-year history - in a sign that 
the group's restructuring since being formed from the merger of BA and Iberia is delivering sustained profit.
IAG revises up 2015 profit and rules out more deals Airlines
The group will pay a gross interim dividend per share of 10 euro cents, and said it planned to pay out 25 per cent of 
its 2015 underlying profit after tax, which could total about EUR400m.
IAG's third-quarter results were the first since the group completed its purchase of Aer Lingus , the Irish flag carrier, 
for EUR1.4bn in August.
Group operating profit in the three months to September 30 rose 38.9 per cent to EUR1.3bn before one-off costs. 
Aer Lingus contributed EUR45m of earnings.
Mr Walsh said IAG was not actively pursuing any new acquisitions after adding Aer Lingus to its stable of airlines, 
which also include Vueling, the Spanish low-cost carrier.
In the past year, IAG has recorded a much stronger share price performance than Air France-KLM and Lufthansa, 
its main European rivals - which have been struggling with strikes related to their cost cutting plans.
IAG's shares have risen 68 per cent in the past 12 months, and this partly reflects steady progress with the 
turnround of Iberia following the cutting of thousands of jobs at the Spanish flag carrier.
In the third quarter, BA posted a 35 per cent rise in operating profit to EUR825m. Iberia recorded a 23 per cent rise 
in profit to EUR200m.
Vueling provided the best return on capital in the third quarter at 13.6 per cent, above IAG's target of 12 per cent. 
The equivalent figures for BA and Iberia were 11.4 per cent and 7.5 per cent respectively.
Load-Date: October 30, 2015
End of Document
Business Diary: Friday, October 30
Business Diary: Friday, October 30
Sunday Business Post
October 30, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Byline: Post Reporter
Highlight: The main business events for the days ahead
Body
The main business events for the days ahead:
.....
Friday, October 30
IAG third quarter results
Monday, November 2
Ryanair first-half results
Tuesday, November 3
Penny's owner ABF to release full-year results
Kerry Group third quarter trading statement
Web Summit takes place in Dublin's RDS until November 5
Wednesday, November 4
Web summit continues in the RDS
Smurfit Kappa third quarter results
Glanbia trading statement
Thursday, November 5
Business Diary: Friday, October 30
Web summit finishes in the RDS
Kennedy Wilson Europe third quarter trading update
Friday, November 6
Nothing scheduled
WEEK AHEAD
Monday, November 9
Kingspan trading statement
Tuesday, November 10
DCC first-half results
Wednesday, November 11
Avolon third quarter results
First Derivatives results
Thursday, November 12
Nothing scheduled
Friday, November 13
Former Anglo Irish Bank chief executive David Drumm's bail hearing takes place in Massachusetts
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches new Dublin-Amsterdam service Ryanair launche...
Ryanair launches new Dublin-Amsterdam service; Ryanair launche...
Business World (Digest)
October 27, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 74 words
Highlight: Dublin airport have today welcomed the news that Ryanair is to offer a new service to Schiphol, 
Amsterdam.
Body
Dublin airport have today welcomed the news that Ryanair is to offer a new service to Schiphol, Amsterdam.
The new route will operate four times daily for both winter and summer schedules.
Dublin Airport Managing Director, Vincent Harrison commented, "We are delighted to see Ryanair's network go 
from strength to strength at Dublin Airport and this new service will give greater choice and flexibility for customers."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 30, 2015
End of Document
WestJet expands low-cost transatlantic flights Travel & leisure
WestJet expands low-cost transatlantic flights; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
October 26, 2015 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 14
Length: 288 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
WestJet, the Canadian airline, is aiming to expand into the low-cost transatlantic market next year, following the 
launch of a new service to London's Gatwick airport.
Gregg Saretsky , chief executive, has told the Financial Times that the airline is now in talks with other airports in 
Europe about additional services - flying from cities such as Paris, Amsterdam and Rome, but also considering UK 
destinations, including Manchester and Birmingham.
"This is the first piece of a new growth plan for WestJet," he said. "Bringing low fares to long-haul travel - this is 
something the world is just starting to see."
In June, the Canadian airline announced that it will start flying between Gatwick and six Canadian cities starting in 
the spring of 2016, taking on Air Canada and British Airways. Prices will start from £163 one-way, including taxes, 
fees and surcharges.
WestJet already flies between Dublin and St John's in Newfoundland, and in May began flights between Glasgow 
and Halifax in Nova Scotia.
In launching the services, WestJet is attempting to become the latest low-cost airline to crack the long-haul market - 
a move that some have found difficult. Norwegian Air Shuttle has been flying from Gatwick to the US over the past 
year, and this month increased the number of flights to provide a daily service. It also plans to operate long-haul 
WestJet expands low-cost transatlantic flights Travel & leisure
flights from Paris as early as next year. Lufthansa is also aiming to set up a low-cost, long-haul operation, while 
Ryanair has signalled an interest. Air Asia currently offers low-cost long-haul travel in Asia.
WestJet, which is based in Calgary, has grown rapidly: from 220 employees and three aircraft when it launched in 
1996, to nearly 12,000 employees and 141 aircraft today.
Load-Date: October 25, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
October 25, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 428 words
Byline: Emma Kennedy and Fearghal O'Connor
Highlight: Zamano deal off table, Board change at Smurfit Kappa, Goodbody makes airline predictions
Body
Zamano deal off table
Mobile phone services company Zamano has announced that talks in relation to a possible takeover offer for the 
company have now ended. 
The company announced in August that it had received "a preliminary and highly conditional approach", with a 
possible offer price of (EURO)0.20 per ordinary share. 
"All discussions regarding the approach have now been terminated and the company is no longer in talks regarding 
a possible takeover," a statement from the company said. 
According to Zamano, it will continue to seek "investment, acquisition and joint venture opportunities to enable it to 
grow and diversify its business". 
Board change at Smurfit Kappa
Packaging giant Smurfit Kappa has announced changes to its board as part of its "ongoing programme of board 
refreshment and renewal", the company said in a statement. 
It announced last week that James Lawrence has been appointed to the board as an independent non-executive 
director, with immediate effect. 
Lawrence is chairman of investment and advisory firm Great North Star, and is a former chief financial officer of 
Unilever. 
Smurfit Kappa also announced that Sam Mencoff and Paul Stecko have retired from the board, having served as 
non-executive directors for 13 and seven years respectively. 
Boardroom Briefing
The company will release its 2015 third quarter results on Wednesday, November 4. 
Goodbody makes airline predictions
Ryanair will boost its market share in the coming months, according to predictions by Goodbody Stockbrokers. Last 
week, Goodbody published a preview of the forthcoming results of six airlines who will be reporting over the next 
three weeks, predicting that European airlines will report strong numbers after "an extraordinary summer of 
demand". 
However, Goodbody indicated that guidance for the winter season "will likely be cautious", but predicted that some 
airlines will buck the trend. "We think Ryanair and Wizz are set to power on through the winter, winning market 
share as they go," the broker suggested. "Ryanair will add 18 per cent capacity over the winter, targeting Germany 
and Spain in particular." 
Goodbody singled out IAG, the new owner of Aer Lingus, as the "stand-out story over the next year". 
"Looking forward, we see substantial opportunities for IAG to drive revenues and cut costs," it said. 
Reminder
It's a bank holiday tomorrow, but the Irish Stock Exchange will be open for business as normal. The exchange 
issued a reminder last week to say that "trading prices, volumes, index data and net asset value (NAV) prices will 
be available as normal" tomorrow.
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Asian growth set to boost aviation firms
Asian growth set to boost aviation firms
Sunday Business Post
October 25, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1041 words
Highlight: Gareth Governey, head of structured banking with HSBC Ireland, highlights the Asian market as a focus 
for Ireland's aircraft leasing sector
Body
Aircraft leasing has become an increasingly attractive business for international investors in recent years. This has 
much to do with the healthy state of the global air travel sector, but what makes it so alluring are the returns on 
offer. 
According to the global trade association for the airline industry, the International Air Transport Association (IATA), 
returns from leasing aircraft averaged 9 per cent a year between 2004 and 2011, while actually operating an airline 
delivered only 4 per cent during the same period. 
All the signs point to continued healthy growth in the sector, with some estimates putting demand for new aircraft 
from the world's airlines at 30,000 planes over the next 20 years. 
This demand will not be evenly spread, however, with airlines from the Asia-Pacific region likely to account for up to 
half of it and spend expected to reach more than US$2 trillion over the period. 
This is being driven by a growing market resulting from the burgeoning middle classes of India, China and other 
countries in the region. New regional airlines are starting up throughout the territory to fight for a share of this 
potentially lucrative market. Add to this the end of a six-year ban on new privately owned airline start-ups by the 
Chinese government and a general hunger for more fuel-efficient machines throughout the world, and you have a 
recipe for a booming sector. 
It is little wonder that as recently as 2013 Airbus stated that some 35 per cent of its backlog of new deliveries was 
destined for Asia. This in turn is generating huge demand for financing, which is attracting new investors into the 
space lured by the prospect of superior returns. 
There is also an opportunity for the Irish based aircraft leasing sector. Ryanair is not the only legacy left behind by 
the late Tony Ryan. He also helped establish the aircraft leasing business in Ireland and created a body of expertise 
Asian growth set to boost aviation firms
in this country which is the envy of investment hubs worldwide. In fact, many commentators have described Ireland 
as the global capital of aircraft leasing. 
Ireland's status as a global hub for aviation leasing is borne out by the fact that nine of the world's top ten lessors 
are either based or headquartered in Ireland. In addition, approximately 20 per cent of the world's commercial 
aircraft are leased from Ireland. 
But Ireland's success is not based solely on the Ryan heritage. The country has remained a leader in the field as a 
result of the development of a highly skilled specialist workforce with expertise in the full range of disciplines 
required to support the international aviation finance sector. 
The Irish government has also been supportive in the establishment of a network of double taxation treaties with 
dozens of countries around the world which provide for zero withholding tax on inbound lease rentals. 
Ireland's low corporate tax regime, membership of the EU, good regulatory environment and the support of 
consecutive governments further underpin the country's competitive position. 
The opportunities open to Ireland are not limited to the overall growth in global demand for new aircraft anticipated 
in the next two decades. There are particular openings presented by the high-growth Asian market, both in terms of 
the leasing sector itself and the requirement for leasing finance. 
In the former case, the majority of the major Japanese lessors now have operations in Ireland. These include 
MUFJ, Mitsubishi, ORIX and Mizuho/Fuyo, while three Chinese aviation operations - Bank of Communications 
Financial Leasing, ICBC, and CDB - have located their European headquarters in Ireland since 2012. These 
investments are a reflection of the fact that IDA Ireland has made aircraft leasing one of its investment priorities in 
China. 
In terms of the Chinese aviation finance market itself, cross-border leasing has a fairly large share of the market at 
present and, according to a 2012 PwC Overview of China's Aircraft Leasing Industry, foreign leasing companies 
"usually choose the countries or regions which have a developed leasing industry and a favourable taxation system, 
eg Ireland." 
In its Aircraft Finance Outlook 2015, Boeing predicts that aviation lessors will account for 40 per cent of 2015 
deliveries. As lessors grow, their share of the overall market the Chinese lessors in particular is outpacing the 
market growth rate and thus growing market share with Ireland. Indeed, this month the China Construction Bank 
announced that it was to set up it aircraft leasing division in Dublin growing its fleet to 200 in five years. 
Another significant event in Irish aviation finance was Avolon's highly successful IPO last December. This 
demonstrated the continuing appetite among international investors for opportunities in the Irish-based industry. 
Avolon is in the late stages of being acquired by Bohai Leasing, a listed Chinese leasing company and part of large 
Chinese conglomerate HNA Group. Bohai Leasing already owns Hong Kong Aviation Capital, which has a leasing 
platform in Ireland. 
HSBC has direct experience of the impact of these developments in Ireland both in relation to funding demand and 
growth in the sector. In the past 12 months, we have seen increased demand for funding from Irish-based lessors 
and the signs point to this trend continuing over the coming year. We have also been directly involved with a 
number of the Chinese lessors that have chosen to establish operations here. 
We believe that the aviation leasing sector in Ireland will grow in strength and global importance over the coming 
years. 
However, while the outlook for the aviation sector as a whole remains positive, with Boeing and Airbus hitting record 
delivery levels in 2014, aviation lessor sector does remain sensitive to future increases in fuel prices, interest rate 
increases, currency volatility, geopolitical risk and a general slowdown in the global economy. 
Asian growth set to boost aviation firms
Ireland needs to ensure that it retains its attraction for the sector, while for the companies based here, international 
connectivity will be absolutely critical if they are to enjoy the reach necessary to capitalise on the significant growth 
opportunities which will arise - particularly in the crucially important Asia Pacific region. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2016
End of Document
Air Berlin, battling to stay aloft, hopes to keep Etihad happy
Air Berlin, battling to stay aloft, hopes to keep Etihad happy
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
October 23, 2015 Friday 4:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 879 words
Body
       By Burkhard Fraune and Bernd Roeder, dpa   Air Berlin's situation has been precarious for quite some time. 
Now, Germany's second-biggest air carrier is worried about its revenues from - and the intentions of - its most 
important code-sharing partner, Etihad.  BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - A row of drab-looking office containers lined up on a 
field on the periphery of Berlin's Schoenefeld airport is causing German air carriers Lufthansa and Air Berlin to 
worry these days.  That's because the containers hid the new fleet of Irish low-budget carrier Ryanair. 
 Ryanair has now stationed five planes for its winter flight schedule at Schoenefeld. Work is now going on at the 
airport to clear and pave the ground to provide more room for them. A new terminal is also planned.  Berlin's air 
traffic is expected to grow by a further 6 per cent in 2016, says airport boss Karsten Muehlenfeld - growth to which 
Lufthansa and Air Berlin won't be contributing. Instead, it will be the budget airlines - Easyjet, Norwegian and, 
above all, Ryanair - that are moving into Germany's domestic air traffic market.  'Air Berlin is still our largest 
customer,' Muehlenfeld stresses. But other carriers are waiting in the wings to assume that spot.  Lufthansa, the top 
German carrier plans to throw down the gauntlet at the discount airlines and beef up its low-cost unit, Eurowings, in 
Berlin and elsewhere.  But this stiffer competition comes at a time when deficit-ridden Air Berlin is battling for its 
code-sharing operations with its partner Etihad Airways, its UAE state-owned partner that, at 29.2 per cent, is also 
Air Berlin's largest shareholder.  The two airlines jointly market 65 air routes, with passengers flying under the same 
code share. Berlin and Dusseldorf are the gateways for Etihad passengers heading to Germany, Europe and the 
United States. The business means additional revenues of 140 million euros (158 million dollars).  Given the 
airline's total annual revenues of 4.16 billion euros in 2014, this would not appear to be so weighty. But at Air Berlin 
headquarters, officials are alarmed.  'At the moment we cannot afford such a loss in revenues.' Especially not when 
Ryanair is lurking nearby, waiting.  'At a healthy company one might say it could be balanced out by cost-savings 
elsewhere,' says Michael Kunert, of the German shareholders protective lobby group SdK.  'But at Air Berlin the 
situation has been highly dramatic for years now.' A solution is urgently needed in the interest both of shareholders 
and employees, he says, adding: 'Without the joint flights, Etihad's interest in Air Berlin could drop off.'  In fact, Air 
Berlin is being kept aloft thanks to the financial infusions from Etihad. Worker representatives at Air Berlin, in a letter 
to German Transportation Minister Alexander Dobrindt, voiced their concern that the Gulf carrier is having 'less and 
less fun' from its partnership.  Matters are up to Dobrindt, since the German civil aviation authority makes decisions 
Air Berlin, battling to stay aloft, hopes to keep Etihad happy
on code-sharing routes based on his instructions.  Any decision would have to be, as has been the case up until 
now, made under exceptional arrangements, because, by ministry accounts, 29 of the code-sharing routes being 
applied for do not fall under Germany's aviation treaty with the United Arab Emirates. These arrangements cover 
which airports in Germany that Etihad may serve.  In the talks so far, the Arab side had resisted efforts to establish 
a legally binding solution, according to ministry sources. The Berlin government is open to further talks. Economics 
Minister Sigmar Gabriel is pushing for a mutually agreeable solution.  Last-minute talks took place with the UAE this 
week on the Etihad issue.  Transport Ministry spokesman Martin Susteck said Friday: 'The talks with the UAE on 
code-share flights have been unproductive. The UAE has rejected efforts by the German government to reach a 
solution that complies with aviation law.'  He said the UAE-Germany aviation treaty did not permit all of the code-
share flights sought by Etihad. 'The German government remains open to talks with the UAE,' he added.  Economy 
Minister Sigmar Gabriel wrote a letter October 16 to Susteck's boss, Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt, urging 
'a compromise' in the dispute, Gabriel's spokeswoman confirmed Friday.  Almost forgotten amid all this is that Air 
Berlin chief executive Stefan Pichler has not yet even presented his plans to revamp the company by 2018. The last 
word was that he would present them in early November, but now it appears that the 8,400 employees will have to 
wait longer. A company spokesman said the plan is still in the making.  Pichler has already announced aims to 
reshuffle the company's management and operations, to orient the airline more strongly towards its more profitable 
routes and to strengthen the Berlin and Dusseldorf hubs. A new low fare has been introduced and more offers 
made to business travellers. Further job cuts are possible.  It isn't the first attempt to get Air Berlin back up to higher 
altitudes. Pichler's predecessors Hartmut Mehdorn and Wolfgang Prock-Schauer had tried in vain to revamp the 
airline. Mehdorn did succeed in gaining Etihad as a partner, thereby gaining some breathing room.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: October 23, 2015
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for October 22nd 2015
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for October 22nd 2015
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
October 22, 2015 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 533 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Thursday, October 22nd 2015  ^ DATA RELEASES 
00:30 D:   ADVA Optical                             Q3  06:00 CH:  Logitech                                 Q2  (Call 14.30 h) 06:40 F:   
Essilor International                    Sales Q3 07:00 D:   Micronas                                 Q3  07:00 CH:  Roche                   
Sales Q3  07:00 KR:  Hyundai Motor                            Q3 07:30 D:   Krones                                   Q3  (Call 14.00 h) 
07:30 D:   Comdirect                                Q3  07:30 D:   Daimler                                  Q3  (Call 8.00 h) 07:30 F:   
Orange                                   Q3  (Pk 11.30 h) 08:00 GB:  Anglo American                           Q3 Production Report 
08:00 GB:  LSE                                      Q3 Interim Statement 08:45 F:   Business Climate Indicator 10/15 10:00 D:   
Deutsche Wohnen                          Conference call with CEO 13:00 USA: Dow Chemical                             Q3  
13:30 USA: 3M                                       Q3  13:30 USA: Caterpillar                              Q3  13:45 EU:  ECB Interest 
Rate Decision  14:00 USA: McDonald's                               Q3  14:30 USA: CFNA-Index 09/15 14:30 USA: Initial 
jobless claims (Week) 16:00 USA  Existing Home Sales 09/15 16:00 USA  Leading Indicators 09/15 16:00 EU:  
Consumer Confidence 10/15 (prel) 17:40 F:   Vinci                                    Sales 9Months 17:45 F:   Michelin                  
Sales Q3 22:00 USA: Microsoft                                Q1  22:00 USA: AT&T                                     Q3  22:00 USA: 
Amazon.com                               Q3  22:30 USA: Alphabet (google)                        Q3   MORE DATA RELEASES 
WITH NO TIME SPECIFIED       B:   Umicore                                  Q3        D:   Amadeus Fire                             9-
Months Figures       D:   Steilmann                                Ende der Subscription period       F:   Pernod Ricard                   
Sales Q1       F:   Dassault Systemes                        Q3        F:   Kering                                   Sales Q3       F:   
Safran                                   Sales Q3       IRL: Ryanair                                  EGM       N:   DNB                   
Q3        NL:  Akzo Nobel                               Q3        NL:  Relx Group (Reed Elsevier)               Trading Update       
USA: Raytheon                                 Q3        USA: Eli Lilly                                Q3        USA: Stanley Black & Decker                   
Q3        USA: Southwest Airlines                       Q3        USA: United Continental                       Q3        USA: Nasdaq                   
Q3        USA: Under Armour                             Q3        D:   Federal ministry of finance Monthly report 10/15\xB0  
While all data were researched with the greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability 
for the correctness of this information. 
All time designations are provided in CEST.  Copyright dpa-AFX    
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for October 22nd 2015
Load-Date: October 22, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus says agreement on Ryanair connections possible by next year; Aer Lingus says...
Aer Lingus says agreement on Ryanair connections possible by next year; 
Aer Lingus says...
Business World (Digest)
October 21, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 394 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus is in talks with short-haul carrier Ryanair about transfer connections for markets it does not 
serve and an agreement could be reached by mid-2016, Chief Executive Stephen Kavanagh said on Wednesday.
Body
Aer Lingus is in talks with short-haul carrier Ryanair about transfer connections for markets it does not serve and an 
agreement could be reached by mid-2016, Chief Executive Stephen Kavanagh said on Wednesday.
Kavanagh gave the update as Aer Lingus, which was bought by British Airways (BA) and Iberia owner International 
Airlines Group (IAG) last month, announced three new U.S routes for next year and outlined plans for further 
expansion in 2017.
"We are looking at the opportunities to extend our network reach. There are markets that Ryanair serves that we 
don't, so we are having those discussions about what is currently happening on an ad hoc basis," Kavanagh told 
reporters.
"If we get the right price in terms of the capacity from Ryanair, then we would be very interested in doing business. 
If the commercial agreements are reached in time, then summer 2016 is a possibility." IAG Chief Executive Willie 
Walsh said that with Aer Lingus and Ryanair customers already "self-connecting", as passengers of U.S. airline Jet 
Blue were doing before it struck up a partnership with Aer Lingus, he did not see any reason why the rivals should 
not create a better, seamless proposition. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary told Reuters in August that he had spoken 
to a number of airlines including BA and Aer Lingus about providing connections for long-haul services for the first 
time, marking a major change for how Europe's largest low-cost carrier operates. Ryanair agreed to sell its 30 
percent stake in Aer Lingus earlier this year as part of the IAG's plan to buy the Irish airline and build a new 
transatlantic hub at Dublin airport, adding more lucrative flights to and from North America. Aer Lingus will fly to 
Newark in New Jersey, Los Angeles and Hartford, Connecticut from next year, in what it called the biggest 
expansion of its nearly 60-year old transatlantic network that increases its number of routes to 12 from nine. 
"Building a hub is critically dependent on the number of routes. We will follow quickly the 2016 initiative with more 
Aer Lingus says agreement on Ryanair connections possible by next year; Aer Lingus says...
expansion in 2017," Kavanagh said "It may be that we will add new routes, as we have today, but I would certainly 
see an opportunity to grow existing gateways and build frequencies. We will build a scale of the operation but I 
would see that as a balance between new and existing." (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 26, 2015
End of Document
Air France struggles to contain sky-high costs Profits on downward path as opposition to efficiency reforms 
leaves flag carrier at risk of becoming second-tier ....
Air France struggles to contain sky-high costs; Profits on downward path as 
opposition to efficiency reforms leaves flag carrier at risk of becoming 
second-tier player
Financial Times (London, England)
October 21, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 1123 words
Byline: Michael Stothard in Paris
Body
There are not that many senior management jobs in Europe where one could reasonably ask for hostile 
environment training, but human resources director at Air France is one of them.
This month a tense employee meeting at the French flag carrier turned violent when Xavier Broseta , the HR 
director, had his shirt torn off by an angry mob and had to flee half-naked over a fence.
The French government quickly denounced the attackers, who were protesting against proposed job losses at Air 
France, which has been struggling to compete against nimbler rivals. "Today's challenge is Air France's survival," 
said Manuel Valls, the French prime minister, immediately after the incident on October 5.
But since Mr Valls' endorsement of major change at Air France, the government has backtracked. With labour 
relations at a low point, analysts and some people close to the company fear the carrier could proceed with half-
baked efficiency reforms that do too little to improve its competitiveness.
This in turn increases the risk that Air France will become a second-tier player in the aviation industry. The 
company's glory days of operating Concorde and blazing a trail in European airline mergers - by combining with 
Air France struggles to contain sky-high costs Profits on downward path as opposition to efficiency reforms 
leaves flag carrier at risk of becoming second-tier ....
KLM of the Netherlands in 2004 - are a distant memory. After four consecutive years of net losses, shareholders 
appear to agree: Air France-KLM's stock has underperformed sector peers as well as the CAC 40 index over the 
past six months.
The main problems at Air France-KLM, where the French government has a 16 per cent stake, have been costs. 
These are high compared with expansionist European budget airlines such as easyJet that operate on short-haul 
routes, as well as with fast-growing Gulf carriers such as Emirates Airline that specialise in long-haul flying .
Air France-KLM's operating expenses excluding fuel - measured as cost per available seat kilometre - were 6.8 
euro cents last year, compared with 2 euro cents at Ryanair and 5.1 euro cents at International Airlines Group, 
parent of British Airways and Iberia, according to JPMorgan analysts.
Air France argues that its pilots, in particular, are overpaid compared with their counterparts at European rivals. The 
average pay of an Air France captain is between EUR150,000 and EUR200,000 a year, which is broadly in line with 
the rest of the industry. But those operating the company's Boeing 777 long-haul jets fly just 550 hours a year, 
almost 20 per cent below the European average.
Air France is therefore attempting to increase the pilots' working hours. But its problems are not confined to high 
operating expenses: it also has large borrowings. When net debt reached EUR6.5bn in 2011, it prompted a 
management shake-up, and Alexandre de Juniac , a former government adviser, was appointed head of the airline.
Some progress was made by Air France-KLM with debt reduction and cost-cutting, and Mr de Juniac was promoted 
to group chief executive in 2013.
But analysts expect Air France-KLM to report operating income of EUR344m this year, down from EUR751m in 
2014, say Bloomberg data. Last year Air France-KLM launched a new efficiency plan called Perform 2020 , which 
envisages about EUR1bn of cost savings by 2017.
These proposals prompted a 14-day strike by Air France pilots in September last year that crippled the airline; it 
ranked as the worst industrial dispute in the group's history, costing EUR500m .
The violence this month stemmed from the same package of reforms. A breakdown in talks between management 
and trade unions led Air France to outline a "plan B" that contained 2,900 job cuts, some of them mandatory.
The big question now is whether Air France can finalise an acceptable cost-cutting deal with the unions. The 
government is keen to avoid more high-profile disturbances at the company, partly because Paris is hosting an 
international climate summit in early December.
Following media criticism of the arrest of five employees linked to the attack on Mr Broseta, Ségolène Royal, the 
ecology minister, called on Air France to "suspend for the moment" its restructuring.
Mr de Juniac struck a conciliatory tone at the weekend, saying that the company would cut less than a third of the 
2,900 posts if it could find alternative cost savings.
Air France management will discuss the restructuring with union officials tomorrow. Mr Broseta is still involved in the 
negotiations, but from January he will be replaced by Gilles Gateau, a deputy chief of staff to Mr Valls.
"We believe a deal can be done," says Emmanuel Mistrali of the SNPL, a union representing pilots, but he stresses 
Air France needs to make concessions.
Yan Derocles, an analyst at Oddo Securities, says that even if all the Perform 2020 cost-cutting measures are 
achieved, they will only bring Air France more into line with European rivals.
"These cuts are not going to radically change the game for Air France," he adds, noting that "it comes when 
Lufthansa, BA and Iberia are also moving forwards in terms of cost cutting".
Air France struggles to contain sky-high costs Profits on downward path as opposition to efficiency reforms 
leaves flag carrier at risk of becoming second-tier ....
One person close to Air France warns of severe consequences for the company if far-reaching efficiency reforms 
are not implemented.
"The Perform 2020 strategy can buy some breathing room . . . but the unions are making radical change difficult. 
On top of all that, there is increasing competition," he says. "If they can't shake off these twin problems, the 
company will get weaker and weaker."
Vacation time 
EDF shelves plans to cut holiday entitlements
EDF, the state-controlled French utility, has quietly dropped a plan to reduce employees' generous holiday 
entitlements after the government encouraged the company to avoid a damaging battle with its workforce.
Since February EDF has been attempting to cut the 10 weeks of holiday enjoyed by about 30,000 of its junior and 
middle-ranking managers.
Jean-Bernard Lévy , EDF chief executive, was offering employees a one-off EUR10,000 payment to persuade them 
to increase their number of working days from 196 each year to 212.
But at the EDF central works council last month the company realised it did not have the support of trade unions to 
cut holiday time, and therefore did not formally propose the plan.
One person close to the company said that while the French government was supportive of the initiative in public, in 
private officials encouraged the company to back down in the face of disagreement with the unions.
The episode highlights the reluctance of French state-backed companies to take on the unions unless it is really 
urgent, as in the case with Air France.
EDF reported a net income of EUR3.7bn in 2014, up 5 per cent compared with the year before. This is a far cry 
from the four consecutive years of net losses recorded by Air France-KLM since 2011.
Michael Stothard and Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
Load-Date: October 20, 2015
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Airlines welcome tentative European moves on MRO; Airlines have welcomed the tentative inquiry 
by the European Commission into potentially anti-compet....
ANALYSIS: Airlines welcome tentative European moves on MRO; Airlines 
have welcomed the tentative inquiry by the European Commission into 
potentially anti-competitive terms in maintenance contracts for certain 
engines and components.
Flight International
October 20, 2015
Copyright 2015 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 954 words
Body
Airlines have welcomed the tentative inquiry by the European Commission into potentially anti-competitive terms in 
maintenance contracts for certain engines and components.
European regulators have sent questionnaires to airlines and manufacturers to assess conditions in the 
equipment's service agreements as part of a preliminary investigation.
While the EU's executive body has not officially announced the launch of a specific investigation or what specifically 
would be focused on, a competition spokesman for the Commission says it is "closely monitoring competitive 
conditions as regards maintenance of engines and components for large commercial aircraft".
German engine manufacturer and maintenance specialist MTU says the inquiry is aimed at determining "whether 
airlines are forced into anti-competitive contracts" and especially concentrates on support of CFM International 
CFM56 and Rolls-Royce Trent XWB engines. The powerplants are the sole engines available for the Boeing 737 
and Airbus A350 respectively, though the CFM56 is additionally employed on the A320 narrowbody family in 
competition with the International Aero Engines V2500.
Munich-based MTU has not received a questionnaire because, it says, it is not participating in the Trent XWB 
programme and its CFM56 aftermarket service is conducted as an independent third-party MRO provider without 
involvement of CFM parents General Electric and Snecma.
Europe's largest 737 operator Ryanair supports the Commission inquiry and is among the airlines that have 
received a questionnaire. The budget carrier acknowledges that there is sufficient level of competition for CFM56 
maintenance in terms of the number of repair specialists, with the engine supported by a range of manufacturer-
ANALYSIS: Airlines welcome tentative European moves on MRO; Airlines have welcomed the tentative inquiry 
by the European Commission into potentially anti-compet....
associated and independent third-party overhaul shops: "We don't see a restriction in the number of MRO providers 
for the services we require." Ryanair has a contract with GE for the maintenance of its engines.
However, the airline indicates that manufacturers' restrictions on the provision of repair information to other 
aftermarket players – such as third-party MRO providers or alternative spare-part suppliers – is limiting competition. 
Ryanair argues that "there is a need for freer access to manufacturers' data and the introduction of limitations on 
what may be classified [by manufacturers] as intellectual property". If such information were more widely 
accessible, maintenance costs would be lower, Ryanair suggests.
This view is also held by Icelandair vice-president of technical operations Jens Thordarson. Speaking at the MRO 
Europe conference in London in mid-October, he said manufacturers' increasingly "dominant" aftermarket role 
risked "stifling innovation" in aircraft maintenance because they were "not always the best" party to provide such 
services.
Air France-KLM, British Airways parent IAG and Lufthansa Group have received questionnaires too. All of these 
airlines support the investigation, though none of them wanted to comment on specific issues. However, Air France-
KLM says "the questions asked by the Commission are the result of the growing concern" among airlines, while 
Lufthansa declares that it "welcomes all efforts to ensure an open, competition-based market".
Earlier this year, IAG chief executive Willie Walsh voiced concerns about rising maintenance costs during a panel 
debate at IATA's annual general meeting in Miami. "We have to start redressing this situation. The IATA board of 
governors was unanimous on the issue, and they are going to engage external legal counsel to start looking into 
this issue," said Walsh. "We need to start pushing back on our costs where they are driven by a limited number of 
suppliers."
Despite the airlines' complaints about rising maintenance costs, Richard Brown – principal at consultancy ICF 
International – tells Flightglobal the investigation caught many industry participants by surprise. As operators and 
lessors typically negotiate large discounts for aircraft and engines during their initial purchase, manufacturers 
retrieve their outlay for the equipment's development through the sale of long-term aftermarket service contracts.
That model has been established for some time, and were it challenged, the granting of discounts by the 
manufacturers would be unsustainable, suggests Brown: "Somebody has to pay for the technology." He says 
airlines would face a dilemma as to how the technological advances and improved aircraft economics they demand 
would be funded.
GE Aviation's financial results reflect the significance of aftermarket profits in its business model. Although GE does 
not disclose aftermarket results for the aviation business, a former head of that division boasts on his LinkedIn 
profile that he led that business to post $7 billion in revenues and $3 billion in operating profit in 2011. That implies 
an astounding 43% operating margin for GE's aircraft engine aftermarket business that year.
But the aviation division overall, which includes the aircraft electronics business formerly known as Smiths, reported 
only $3.5 billion in profit in 2011, on $18.9 billion in revenues – a 19% margin. The aftermarket business alone 
accounted for 86% of GE Aviation's annual operating profit in 2011. The rest of the business combined to generate 
an operating margin of nearly 4%.
Rolls-Royce and GE separately confirm that they received questionnaires and support the investigation. The UK 
engine maker says around 40 airlines and manufacturers have been contacted by the Commission, but adds that 
the investigation is still in the early stages.
GE, meanwhile, says it will co-operate in "helping the EC [European Commission] understand the dynamics of the 
aviation industry".
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
ANALYSIS: Airlines welcome tentative European moves on MRO; Airlines have welcomed the tentative inquiry 
by the European Commission into potentially anti-compet....
End of Document
Ryanair launches summer 2016 Newcastle schedule with two new routes
Ryanair launches summer 2016 Newcastle schedule with two new routes
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 20, 2015 Tuesday 7:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 215 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has launched its summer 2016 Newcastle schedule with two new routes to Alicante and 
Malaga.
Body
Ryanair's summer 2016 Newcastle schedule will deliver: 2 new routes to Alicante (5 x weekly) and Malaga (4 x 
weekly); 3 routes in total (Dublin - 9 x weekly); 18 weekly flights; 270,000 customers per annum; and support 200 
on-site jobs at Newcastle Airport. UK consumers and visitors can choose from Ryanair's 3 low fare Newcastle 
routes in S16 and can look forward to further improvements, as Ryanair continues its "Always Getting Better" 
programme, which includes new bases, a new personalised website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew 
uniforms and improved inflight menus. In Newcastle, Ryanair's Deputy Director of Route Development, Kate Sherry 
said: "Our customers can look forward to further improvements in the coming months, including our ground 
breaking personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and real customer 
destination reviews, and improved menus, new cabin crew uniforms and new cabin interiors on board, with more to 
come in Year 3, as we continue to offer so much more than just lowest fares. "To celebrate the launch of our 
Newcastle summer 2016 schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our European network at fares 
starting from just GBP17.99, which are available for booking until midnight Sunday (18 Oct)."
Load-Date: October 26, 2015
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 19.10.2015 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 19.10.2015 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
October 19, 2015 Monday 8:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 481 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 19.10.2015 - 08.50 am  - BERENBERG 
RAISES EVONIK PRICE TARGET TO 38 (31) EUR - 'BUY' - BERNSTEIN CUTS VOLKSWAGEN PRICE TARGET 
TO 160 (200) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - COMMERZBANK RAISES WINCOR NIXDORF TO 'HOLD' ('SELL') - 
PRICE TARGET 30 EUR - DEUTSCHE BANK CUTS DEUTSCHE BOERSE PRICE TARGET TO 77 (78) EUR - 
'HOLD' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES LUFTHANSA PRICE TARGET TO 16.70 (14.70) EUR - 'HOLD' - GOLDMAN 
CUTS KION PRICE TARGET TO 48.50 (51.00) EUR - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN CUTS KUKA PRICE TARGET TO 72 
(76) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN CUTS NORMA GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 50 (52) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - 
GOLDMAN CUTS SIEMENS PRICE TARGET TO 98 (99) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN RAISES HANNOVER 
R\xDCCK PRICE TARGET TO 85 (82) EUR - 'SELL'  - CREDIT SUISSE RAISES MCDONALD'S TO 'GLOBAL 
FOCUS LIST'  - ANALYSE-FLASH: UBS CUTS BARCLAYS PRICE TARGET TO 302 (310) PENCE - 'BUY' - 
BARCLAYS CUTS ZURICH INSURANCE TO 'EQUAL WEIGHT' ('OW') - PRICE TARGET 266 (342) SFR - 
BERENBERG CUTS AB FOODS TO 'HOLD' ('BUY') - TARGET 3,450 PENCE - BERENBERG CUTS NESTLE 
PRICE TARGET TO 81.00 (81.50) SFR - 'BUY' - BERENBERG RAISES INTERTEK PRICE TARGET TO 2,450 
(2,375) PENCE - 'HOLD' - CREDIT SUISSE CUTS TELEFONICA TO 'UNDERPERFORM' ('N') - PRICE TARGET 
10.50 (13) EUR - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES AIR FRANCE-KLM PRICE TARGET TO 6.70 (6.20) EUR - 'HOLD' - 
DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES EASYJET  PRICE TARGET TO 1,950 (1,915) PENCE - 'BUY' - DEUTSCHE BANK 
RAISES RIO TINTO PRICE TARGET TO 3400 (3358) PENCE - 'BUY' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES RYANAIR 
PRICE TARGET TO 14,80 (12,70) EUR - 'BUY' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES WH SMITH PRICE TARGET TO 
1,700 (1,650) PENCE - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN CUTS ABB PRICE TARGET TO 15.50 (16.00) SFR - 'CONVICTION 
SELL LIST' - GOLDMAN CUTS GAZPROM TO 'SELL' ('NEUTRAL') - GOLDMAN CUTS NOVATEK TO 'NEUTRAL' 
('BUY') - GOLDMAN CUTS OXFORD INSTRUMENTS TO 'NEUTRAL' ('BUY') - GOLDMAN CUTS SCHNEIDER 
ELECTRIC PRICE TARGET TO 62 (65) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - JPMORGAN RAISES RIO TINTO PRICE TARGET 
TO 3000 (2950) PENCE - 'OVERWEIGHT' - PANMURE RAISES STATPRO GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 106 
(103) PENCE - 'BUY' - SOCGEN RAISES INTERTEK PRICE TARGET TO 2,850 (2,750) PENCE - 'HOLD' - UBS 
CUTS RBS PRICE TARGET TO 363 (370) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - UBS RAISES MONEYSUPERMARKET.COM 
PRICE TARGET TO 310 (285) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL'  - RPT/TRADERS: EXANE BNP CUTS NESTLE PRICE 
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 19.10.2015 - 08.50 am
TARGET TO 70 (71) SFR - 'UNDERPERFORM' - TRADERS: BARCLAYS CUTS ZURICH INSURANCE TO 
'EQUAL WEIGHT' ('OVERWEIGHT') - TRADERS: CREDIT SUISSE CUTS TELEFONICA TO 'UNDERPERFORM' 
('NEUTRAL') - TRADERS: MACQUARIE RAISES VODAFONE TO 'OUTPERFORM' ('NEUTRAL') - TRADERS: 
MORGAN STANLEY CUTS REPSOL TO 'EQUAL-WEIGHT' ('OVERWEIGHT')  dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten 
GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information. 
   
Load-Date: October 19, 2015
End of Document
Train capacity constraints threaten bid to end Virgin monopoly East Coast
Train capacity constraints threaten bid to end Virgin monopoly; East Coast
Financial Times (London, England)
October 15, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 521 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
The battle to break up Virgin Trains' monopoly on the East Coast main line has been thrown into doubt after 
Network Rail warned there may not be enough space for new competition.
The warning comes as two train operators, FirstGroup and Alliance Rail, are bidding to run competing services on 
the line between London and Edinburgh.
FirstGroup aims to take on the low-cost airlines such as Ryanair and EasyJet with a rail service that is cheaper and 
faster than the incumbent's existing operations. Alliance Rail, a subsidiary of German-owned Deutsche Bahn, wants 
to offer luxury Pendolino tilting trains to cut journey times.
However, a letter from Network Rail, published on the website of the Office of Rail and Road regulator, suggests 
there are a number of issues that could hit the competing bids.
Fiona Dolman, capacity planning director at Network Rail, wrote in the letter that it "cannot confirm" it would be 
possible to run eight long-distance high-speed services per hour on the line.
She also highlighted a number of capacity constraints facing the proposed services off the core East Coast main 
line route, such as Micklefield to Leeds, while adding that Network Rail did not yet know what services would be 
required by the Northern and Transpennine franchises, which are due to be awarded this year.
Train capacity constraints threaten bid to end Virgin monopoly East Coast
Another problem concerns power supply in the Doncaster area, where Network Rail said it would need to carry out 
additional work to enable more than two electric trains per hour.
The decision on the bids, expected to be made by the end of the year by the ORR, comes amid a shake-up at 
Network Rail after it emerged that the state-owned infrastructure group was heavily behind schedule and over 
budget on its £38bn investment programme.
The capacity issues were discussed yesterday in the first of a series of meetings held by the ORR, which included 
representatives from Network Rail and the three train groups.
Network Rail said it was working closely with the regulator and prospective operators regarding capacity allocation 
on the East Coast main line.
"We're comfortable that we can operate our proposals alongside the franchise," said FirstGroup.
Alliance Rail added: "The industry appears agreed that additional capacity is, or will be available. We now need 
more certainty on when."
Although the franchise to run the East Coast main line is held by Virgin Trains, other operators may apply to run 
additional operations on the track under a process known as open access, if they can make a case that those 
services are not currently provided.
Some operators are already doing this on parts of the line, such as GrandCentral, owned by Deutsche Bahn, which 
operates services between London, Doncaster and Sunderland. However, only Virgin serves the London to 
Edinburgh route at present.
The Competition and Markets Authority is looking at whether UK's rail network could be opened up to greater 
competition between operators to bring lower fares and better service for passengers. In July, the CMA said it was 
considering four options, including increasing open access operations, or having two train groups for each 
franchise.
Load-Date: October 14, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to open new base at Corfu Airport
Ryanair to open new base at Corfu Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 14, 2015 Wednesday 7:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 183 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will open a new base at Corfu Airport, its 75th base in total, in 
April 2016.
Body
From April, Ryanair new base in Corfu will deliver: 1 based aircraft (an investment of $100m), 11 new routes to 
Birmingham, Bratislava, Budapest, Cologne, Rome, Katowice, Poznan, Pisa, Rzeszow, Venice and Warsaw and 
more flights to Brussels Charleroi, East Midlands, London Stansted & Milan Bergamo, which will deliver 300,000 
customers p.a. and support 225 "on-site" jobs, as Ryanair doubles its Corfu traffic. In Corfu, Ryanair's Chief 
Commercial Officer, David O'Brien said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce that we will open a new Corfu base from 
April, our fourth in Greece, with one aircraft and 21 routes, which will deliver 300,000 customers p.a. and support 
225 jobs at Corfu Airport. Greece is a significant growth market for Ryanair, and we will continue to connect our 
Greek airports with Europe's major cities such as Brussels London and Milan, making Ryanair the ideal choice for 
business and leisure customers. "To celebrate our new Corfu base we are releasing seats for sale at prices starting 
from just E29.99 for travel from April and May, which must be booked by Friday (16 Oct)."
Load-Date: October 20, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to launch new route from Birmingham to Corfu
Ryanair to launch new route from Birmingham to Corfu
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 14, 2015 Wednesday 7:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 111 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will launch a new route from Birmingham to Corfu, starting April 
26, 2015, with a weekly service, as part of its Birmingham summer 2016 schedule.
Body
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Our customers can look forward to further "Always Getting Better" improvements in the 
coming months, including our ground breaking personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 'hold 
the fare' and real customer destination reviews, and improved menus, new cabin crew uniforms and new cabin 
interiors on board, with more to come as we continue to offer so much more than just lowest fares. "To celebrate 
the launch of our new Birmingham-Corfu route, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our European 
network at fares starting from just GBP19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (15 Oct)."
Load-Date: October 20, 2015
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
October 13, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 424 words
Body
FINANCIAL TIMES FED OFFICIAL URGES HOLD ON RATES AMID RISKS A senior Federal Reserve policymaker 
has urged the central bank not to prematurely withdraw its monetary support for the US economy given the 
mounting risks globally and danger of low inflation. Lael Brainard, a member of the Federal Reserve's board of 
governors, said the central bank should be "watching and waiting" rather than pushing forward with an increase in 
short-term interest rates.
TORIES CONSIDER ALLOWING 16-17 EU REFERENDUM VOTE Some senior Tories are considering accepting 
that people aged 16 and 17 should be allowed to vote in the EU referendum. Labour and Lib Dem peers are 
demanding an extension of the franchise. The second reading on the issue is today and a vote will come later this 
month at committee stage.
THE TIMES GOVE PICKS CABINET FIGHT OVER DEAL WITH SAUDIS A cabinet row has broken out between 
two senior ministers over the fate of a controversial prisons deal with Saudi Arabia. Michael Gove, the lord 
chancellor and justice secretary, was accused of naivety by Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, over his 
demand that a £5.9m deal with Saudi Arabia be scrapped.
RYANAIR'S RISE LIFTS STANSTED UP RANKINGS Stansted is set to reclaim its position as Britain's third-busiest 
airport from its sister hub at Manchester, buoyed by record-breaking growth of Ryanair, its main tenant.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH SHIPBUILDING CONTRACT Britain's maritime industry has been given a major boost 
with Cammell Laird beating off competition from rivals in Europe and the Far East to win a £200m deal to build an 
advanced polar research ship for the government-backed British Antarctic Survey.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
EU ORDERS SPAIN TO RE-WRITE NATIONAL BUDGET Spain has been told to re-write its national budget after 
the government's plans fell foul of the European Union's tough spending targets, two months before the country 
heads for national elections.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL CRACKS EMERGE IN US BOND MARKET Falling profits and increased 
borrowing at US companies are rattling debt mar-kets, a sign the six-year-long economic recovery could be under 
threat. Creditrating firms are downgrading more US companies than at any other time since the financial crisis, and 
measures of debt relative to cash flow are rising.
LVMH REVENUE RISES 16 PER CENT HELPED BY EURO LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton said its third-
quarter revenue rose 16 per cent as the French luxury goods firm benefited from a weak euro, and strong sales at 
its drinks division outweighed slowing growth at its fashion business.
Load-Date: October 13, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces new flight for Rugby World Cup quarter final Ryanair announc...
Ryanair announces new flight for Rugby World Cup quarter final; Ryanair 
announc...
Business World (Digest)
October 12, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 101 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today announced that they havescheduled an extra return flight from Dublin to Cardiff on 
Sunday, October 18th to cater for Irish fans heading to Wales for the Rugby World Cup quarter final against 
Argentina.
Body
Ryanair have today announced that they havescheduled an extra return flight from Dublin to Cardiff on Sunday, 
October 18th to cater for Irish fans heading to Wales for the Rugby World Cup quarter final against Argentina.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "With Ireland through to a quarter final against Argentina, we've scheduled an extra 
return flight from Dublin to Cardiff next Sunday.
"This World Cup special is on sale on the Ryanair website now, so Irish rugby fans should 'crouch, touch and 
engage' and book these extra flights by logging on to Ryanair.com for the best rugby fares."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 16, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
October 11, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 391 words
Body
**Brokers take note of AIB chief Byrne's remarks**
AIB's chief executive Bernard Byrne spoke at the annual dinner of the Dublin Chamber of Commerce last week, 
with brokers tuned to his comments on the bank's fortunes.
Byrne's latest utterances point to progress, according to Davy.    AIB's continued progress is reflected in chief 
executive Bernard Byrne's comment that the bank approved almost EUR 9 billion of new loans to the end of 
August,   Davy noted.
Goodbody honed in on Byrne's indication that AIB will be in a position to repay a very sizeable chunk of capital to 
the state in the    not too distant   future.
   He added that the timing of an IPO was the call of the Minister for Finance, but that the bank was ready whenever 
that decision was made,   Goodbody noted, predicting an IPO in the second or third quarter of next year.
**Muldoon takes top job at FBD**
FBD Holdings has appointed Fiona Muldoon, a former member of the Central Bank's senior management team, as 
its chief executive with immediate effect.
   It is intended that she will also be appointed as chief executive of FBD Insurance plc, subject to regulatory 
approval,   the company said in a statement.
Muldoon joined FBD in January as finance director, and assumed the role of interim chief executive at the end of 
July after the departure of Andrew Langford.
The company has also appointed Paul D'Alton as its chief financial officer on    an interim basis for a period of 
approximately one year  , it said in a statement.
Boardroom Briefing
FBD will hold an egm on October 22 to put the proposed divestment of its stake in its joint venture, FBD Property & 
Leisure Limited, to a shareholder vote.
**Coming up**
Ryanair will hold an egm on October 22 to seek approval to return almost EUR 400 million in cash to shareholders. 
It has said that the planned distribution to shareholders, the proceeds from the sale of its Aer Lingus stake, will 
bring total funds returned by the airline to shareholders to more than EUR 3.3 billion since 2008.
Meanwhile, Ryanair announced last week that passenger traffic grew by 12 per cent in September to 9.55 million 
people. The airline said rolling annual traffic in the year to September grew by 16 per cent to 97.3 million.
Also on the horizon are first-half results for the 2016 fiscal year for drinks company C&C. It is due to publish results 
on October 28.
Load-Date: October 12, 2015
End of Document
EUR 1.5m fresh funding is just the Jobbio
EUR 1.5m fresh funding is just the Jobbio
Sunday Business Post
October 11, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 267 words
Body
Company: Jobbio
**Done Deal:**has raised EUR 1.5 million in funding
**The clincher:**   The Jobbio vision is to use tech to reimagine the recruitment business   - **Stephen Quinn**, 
chief executive, Jobbio
.....
The online recruitment platform Jobbio is set to add 25 new hires in Dublin, London and New York after securing 
additional funding of EUR 1.5 million.
The funding comes from a range of top-tier investors ranging from members of the Smurfit family, Michael 
Chadwick, the chairman of Grafton Group, Nicole Junkermann, a European entrepreneur and investor, and venture 
capitalist and Balderton Capital founder, Barry Maloney who will also join the board at Jobbio.
Since its launch in 2013, more than 200,000 job seekers have registered on Jobbio and 1,600 firms are using the 
platform to hire.
Household names using the site include Uber, Airbnb and PayPal, as well as Unilever, Ryanair, Dropbox and Bank 
of Ireland.
The platform was developed by Irish brothers Stephen and John Quinn.
Jobbio will now hire a further 25 people across the business. It has already recruited 400 brands in Britain, with a 
further 200 organisations adopting Jobbio in the US.
   The Jobbio vision is to use tech to reimagine the recruitment business and eliminate the old world's expensive 
and ineffective recruitment model,   said Stephen Quinn, chief executive of Jobbio.
EUR 1.5m fresh funding is just the Jobbio
   We have seen this approach resonate with innovative global names and savvy local employers who are looking 
for the best talent. We are seeing the best talent and brands migrate to our service to get the right position to suit 
their needs right now.  
Load-Date: October 12, 2015
End of Document
Investors who feel unnerved by a perceived culture change at CRH need some reassurance
Investors who feel unnerved by a perceived culture change at CRH need 
some reassurance
Sunday Business Post
October 11, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1278 words
Body
Take a look at the Irish stock market today: there are precious few companies listed on it with a valuation in excess 
of EUR 5 billion. Look at the leaders of 15 years ago: the vast majority of them have either disappeared from the 
market (as in the case of Elan), gone bust (as with Baltimore), or been reduced to 'penny' share status and 
substantially nationalised (as with AIB and Bank of Ireland).
Today, only a handful of non-state-controlled Irish companies that were listed 30 years or more ago (CRH, Ryanair, 
and Kerry Group), and are still listed on the Irish exchange, can boast a stock market value in excess of EUR 10 
billion. Today, I want to turn my attention to CRH, about which, frankly, I have some anxieties for the future.
Alone among Irish plcs which were in cyclical businesses when the financial crisis struck in 2008, CRH not only 
survived, it continued to maintain the payment to its shareholders of dividends at the pre-crash levels - right through 
the crisis up to today.
This is remarkable given the scale of the company's exposure to some of the then most troubled western 
economies (Britain, the US, Ireland, Portugal and Spain). Collectively, these countries had accounted for more than 
two-thirds of CRH's earnings, and left the company very exposed given the cyclical nature of its business.
It is a tribute to the cautious management style of former chief executive Myles Lee that, through that downturn - 
which in terms of its depth had no precedent in his 30-year career at the building materials group - he managed to 
continue the annual dividend payment at the pre-recession level.
To do this without stretching the balance sheet required extensive cost efficiency programmes; tight cashflow 
management; the disposal of non-core assets; and the minimisation of acquisitions to very small and highly 
selective bolt-ons that would be quickly cash-generative.
Investors who feel unnerved by a perceived culture change at CRH need some reassurance
Lee also shunned the    pile into emerging markets   theme that was so fashionable among peers at the time. His 
decision on that looks wise now.
Lee was an unlucky chief executive. He took over the top job at CRH at the worst possible point in the building 
materials and construction cycle and departed at his normal retirement date just as the cycle was close to turning 
back up again.
But his judicious and cautious steering of the ship through the storm will be remembered by dividend-hungry 
shareholders - especially those Irish ones who suffered so much from the wipeouts at other formerly reliable 
payers, not least the banks.
I focus on this because, having first floated in 1969, CRH was and remains a staple holding in many an elderly Irish 
person's share portfolio and on whose dividends they rely.
Many of them relied on AIB and Bank of Ireland for dividends too. It was CRH (and Diageo, which had taken 
formerly Irish-listed Guinness under its umbrella) that saved many of them from the old age penury that might 
otherwise have struck them in the wake of the Irish banking crisis.
As a relatively non-cyclical business, it was easy for Diageo to continue dividend paying but far from easy for CRH, 
had Lee's caution and stewardship not saved the day.
But the issue now is: with the departure of Lee as chief executive at the end of 2013, is CRH's culture changing?
It is premature, on the evidence to date, to conclude that his replacement Albert Manifold's acquisition spree over 
the past 18 months will culminate in disaster for CRH. But, given the cost and scale of those acquisitions, it is not 
premature to raise a red flag about the potential risks.
The fact is that, over the past 18 months of his tenure, the cost of CRH's spree on two acquisitions alone adds up to 
EUR 7.8 billion - a level of acquisition spend in one calendar year that equals the total of five years acquisition 
spend during the boom years leading up to the crisis. It has also involved a more than doubling in group borrowings 
relative to annual gross cashflow (before interest and tax payments) - and that's not on a cashflow at the cyclical 
low point.
Manifold must recognise that investors in CRH have always seen the group as a conservative, 'Steady Eddie' 
player in the market. They want to see him keep it that way. So it is imperative that he sticks to his commitment to 
use the cash generated over the next 18 months to bring the group's debt multiple of gross trading cashflow back 
down to a more prudent 2.5 times - even if that is a less prudent level than the 1.5 times that Lee left him with.
Without a fast and uncompromised reduction, the group's dividend will be very seriously threatened from another 
slowdown in global markets and the 'through the cycle' ratio could shoot up to levels that make sustaining the 
dividend impossible.
This would not only hammer the group's share price and see income funds head for the exit: it could also threaten 
the group's financial stability as the credit rating agencies marked the group down from its current borderline 
investment grade status to 'junk', with consequential difficulty for raising funds as bond market liquidity tightens.
This is not to detract from the very positive aspects of the recent acquisitions. They strengthen the vertical 
integration of the group's US business. The lion's share of the assets and earnings streams emanate from the US 
economy - probably the best place to be in current market circumstances. And the top management team is being 
beefed up, with reliable and experienced CRH veteran Maeve Carton moving from finance director to group 
transformation director and the recruitment of Senan Murphy to succeed her.
Murphy has built an excellent reputation at Bank of Ireland, and has a wealth of experience in operational 
management at the highest levels as well as a strong background in senior finance functions.
Investors who feel unnerved by a perceived culture change at CRH need some reassurance
That said, Manifold has put a highly cyclical business on a highly leveraged footing at a time when global tensions 
have heightened, and question marks are being placed on the sustainability of forecasted growth rates for many 
parts of the developed and developing world. As the IMF pointed out last week, strains on many parts of the global 
financial system remain in evidence.
In those circumstances, a currently relatively benign environment for CRH could easily turn. That would not leave 
the current credit ratings of the group unscathed.
In the event of a ratings downgrade, many institutional bond investors whose mandate is to invest only in 
investment grade bonds would have to run for the hills, whereupon the yields on CRH's bonds would soar and the 
cost to the company of refinancing debt, or raising new debt would soar with it. A risk mitigant - albeit only a modest 
one in those circumstances - might be the recently improved maturity profile of the group's debt.
My concerns have not been becalmed, either, by the lack of any material signal of confidence from executive 
director share purchases with hard cash over the past 18 months. Indeed, Maeve Carton dumped some of hers 
within weeks of her announced re-assignment from group finance director to group transformation director.
Manifold has been somewhat shy, too - which is strange, given the cyclical recovery of the past 18 months, and the 
fact that he is currently short of the stated target for executive directors' holdings as a multiple of salary.
So, all in all, shareholders have questions to ask management and pressures to apply to ensure that what look like 
two big strategically smart acquisitions are rapidly integrated with maximum synergies extracted and that the 
company is returned to the safer, more conservatively geared entity that served shareholders so well before the 
recent uncharacteristic leverage play.
Load-Date: October 12, 2015
End of Document
Michael O'Leary's 'boring' lesson The riff
Michael O'Leary's 'boring' lesson; The riff
Financial Times (London, England)
October 8, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: BUSINESS LIFE; Pg. 16
Length: 297 words
Byline: Emma Jacobs
Body
"Boring" is a difficult sell. Few politicians or business leaders stir our interest by espousing boringness. Charisma, 
passion and disruption are the attributes said to fire us up.
This week, the Financial Times published an interview with Michael O'Leary , above, buccaneering chief executive 
of budget airline Ryanair. Famed for spikiness and irreverence, the CEO conceded that the company had entered 
boring middle age. "We are probably moving from [being] what I would call errant teenagers into being somewhat 
more adult in the way we both interact with our customers and communicate with the outside world." Yes, this might 
be another public relations exercise, but adulthood certainly seems to have lifted the company's fortunes. The 
disrupter wants to be seen as dull.
This chimed with a recent article in the Harvard Business Review by Tomas Chamorro-Premuzic, whose book 
Confidence was published two years ago. In the HBR article , he argued that the best managers are boring. 
"Dullness is not how most organisations choose managers today. Instead, they look for flash and vision, and bold 
displays of confidence," he writes. Yet the best are often boring, "a function of being emotionally stable, agreeable 
and conscientious. Unsurprisingly, we all become more 'mature' (boring) as we age."
Intrigued, I asked him to expand on the theme. Passionate leaders frequently fail to deliver, he says. Charisma is 
the flipside of narcissism, making employees or voters mistake confidence for competence.
"In the long run, when you are looking for competent managers, they are often the opposite [of charismatic]."
Michael O'Leary's 'boring' lesson The riff
It will be interesting to see whether Mr O'Leary can keep it up. After all, as Prof Chamorro-Premuzic observes, 
"most people don't change much when left to their own devices".
Load-Date: October 7, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair recruiting for jobs Ryanair recruit...
Ryanair recruiting for jobs; Ryanair recruit...
Business World (Digest)
October 8, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 142 words
Highlight: Recruitment partner for Ryanair, Dalmac, have today announced that they are continuing their major 
European Recruitment Campaign to fill hundreds of Cabin Crew Positions on board Ryanair Aircraft.
Body
Recruitment partner for Ryanair, Dalmac, have today announced that they are continuing their major European 
Recruitment Campaign to fill hundreds of Cabin Crew Positions on board Ryanair Aircraft.
Successful candidates will have the opportunity to work in various Airports across Europe including Ireland.
Dalmac is now seeking new recruits as it holds recruitment days in Ireland. If lucky successful candidates will have 
the opportunity to complete their cabin crew training at their training centre in Hahn, Germany on the 5th of January 
2016.
Dalmac's Head of Recruitment, Niall Gleeson says, "We had a fantastic response in 2014 and were extremely 
satisfied with the very high calibre candidates we met in Ireland. We are now returning to fill 100's of positions, this 
is a fantastic opportunity to join a growing industry." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 13, 2015
End of Document
Norwegian Air Planning $69 Trans-Atlantic Flights
Norwegian Air Planning $69 Trans-Atlantic Flights
International Business Times News
October 7, 2015 Wednesday 2:03 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 585 words
Byline: Tim Marcin
Body
Oct 07, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> It could 
soon get a lot cheaper for people in the United States to cross the Atlantic. Norwegian Air is hoping to sell one-way 
tickets for flights to Europe for just $69 as early as 2017, CEO Bjørn Kjos said Tuesday, according 
to Reuters[1].<nl/>
 Kjos said the company hopes to keep costs low by flying out of United States airports with low fees. Norwegian air, 
Europe's third largest airline, is considering flights to Edinburgh, Scotland and Bergen, Norway. The flights would 
take off from airports that currently feature little to no international service, like New York's Westchester County 
Airport and Connecticut's Bradley International Airport, Kjos told Reuters.<nl/> While some one-way tickets are 
expected to go for just $69, the average round trip will be closer to about $300, Kjos said. Norwegian Air's fares are 
usually about $500 now because of higher fees levied at busier airports. <nl/> The potential move is part of an 
overarching plan from the airline to cut away at other airlines, such as Lufthansa, that typically dominate trans-
Atlantic service. Instead of focusing on flights to major hubs and then offering connections to hundreds of 
destinations, 
Norwegian 
is 
hoping 
to 
focus 
on 
smaller 
cities, 
thus 
keeping 
costs 
low.<nl/>https://w.graphiq.com/w/fvwgETiqtSJ[2]<nl/> Norwegian Air Shuttle | WanderBat[3]<nl/> "I think you will 
see a lot to that effect within five years' time," Kjos said to Reuters. "What will happen to [Lufthansa] when everyone 
starts to fly direct?"<nl/> Norwegian Air is not the first airline to consider offering budget flights across the Atlantic. 
Iceland's Wow Air offered[4] in March one-way tickets from Boston to Paris for about $99. Wow recently 
announced[5] it planned to offer $75 tickets from Canada to Iceland and Lufthansa subsidiary Eurowings also has 
plans for cheap trans-Atlantic flights.<nl/> Europe's largest budget airline, Ryanair, said in March it planned to offer 
cheap flights to Europe by 2020. The planned tickets would cost about $15. But the airline is a bit further away from 
being able to make trans-Atlantic plans a reality because it would have to invest in planes able to make the longer 
flights. <nl/> Ryanair was reportedly in talks with manufacturers over purchasing a long-haul fleet and hoped to offer 
the budget flights to Europe from 14 American cities. <nl/> "European consumers want lower cost travel to the 
U.S.A. and the same for Americans coming to Europe," said Robin Kiely, head of Ryanair communications, to CNN 
Money[6]. "We see it as a logical development in the European market."<nl/> The $15-ticket is a bit misleading, 
however, because numerous charges would likely apply to passengers who used the no-frills carrier. Baggage fees, 
passenger taxes and other add-ons could push the cost up by hundreds of dollars.<nl/> [ 1]:            
http://www.nbcnews.com/business/travel/norwegian-air-ceo-says-69-flights-u-s-europe-coming-n439686 [ 2]:            
https://w.graphiq.com/w/fvwgETiqtSJ [ 3]:            http://airlines.wanderbat.com/l/219/Norwegian-Air-Shuttle [ 4]:            
http://www.cnbc.com/2014/11/03/icelands-wow-air-eyes-more-us-flights-after-cheap-tickets-fly.html [ 5]:            
Norwegian Air Planning $69 Trans-Atlantic Flights
http://www.usatoday.com/story/todayinthesky/2015/10/01/wow-air-expands-to-canada-rolls-out-75-flights-to-
iceland/73142416/ [ 6]:            http://money.cnn.com/2015/03/17/news/companies/ryanair-transatlantic-flights/ 
Load-Date: October 7, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches summer 2016 Bristol schedule
Ryanair launches summer 2016 Bristol schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 6, 2015 Tuesday 6:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 227 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its summer 2016 Bristol schedule with two new routes to Krakow in Poland and 
Reus in Spain.
Body
UK consumers and visitors can choose from Ryanair's 29 low fare Bristol routes in S16 and can look forward to 
further improvements, as Ryanair continues its "Always Getting Better" programme, which includes new bases, a 
new personalised website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms and improved inflight menus. In Bristol, 
Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, David O'Brien said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Summer 2016 Bristol 
schedule, with 2 new routes to Krakow and Reus, and 29 routes in total, which will deliver over 1.5m customers p.a. 
and support 1,160 "on-site" jobs at Bristol Airport. 
"Our customers can look forward to further improvements in the coming months, including our ground breaking 
personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and real customer destination 
reviews, and improved menus, new cabin crew uniforms and new cabin interiors on board, with more to come in 
Year 3, as we continue to offer so much more than just lowest fares. "To celebrate the launch of our Bristol summer 
2016 schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our European network at fares starting from just 
GBP19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (1 Oct). Since these amazing low prices will be 
snapped up quickly, customers should log onto ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: October 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair calls on Google to enforce advertising transaparency; Ryanair calls o...
Ryanair calls on Google to enforce advertising transaparency; Ryanair calls 
o...
Business World (Digest)
October 6, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 86 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today called on Google to enforce greater transparency on theironline advertising.
Body
Ryanair have today called on Google to enforce greater transparency on theironline advertising.
They say that they have received extensive complaints from their customers who have been "misled" into booking 
Ryanair flights on non-Ryanair websites, which are purposely designed to mislead customers.
Ryanair urged customers to book directly on Ryanair.com and called on Google to enforce greater transparency on 
its advertising rules, to prevent European customers being misled and overcharged.
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches summer 2016 Glasgow schedule
Ryanair launches summer 2016 Glasgow schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 6, 2015 Tuesday 6:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its summer 2016 Glasgow schedule with one new route to Berlin.
Body
Scottish consumers and visitors can choose from Ryanair's 26 low fare Glasgow routes in S16 and can look 
forward to further improvements, as Ryanair continues its "Always Getting Better" programme, which includes new 
bases, a new personalised website and mobile app, new cabin interiors, and new crew uniforms. In Glasgow, 
Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Summer 2016 Glasgow schedule, with a new 
route to Berlin and 4 daily flights to London, and 26 routes in total, which will deliver 1.7m customers p.a. and 
support 1,275 "on-site" jobs at Glasgow Intl and Glasgow Prestwick. Ryanair will also add more flights on our 
Glasgow - London route to 4 times daily. "To celebrate the launch of our biggest ever Glasgow Summer 2016 
schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our European network at fares starting from just 
GBP19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (1 Oct). Since these amazing low prices will be 
snapped up quickly, customers should log onto ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: October 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair September passenger traffic increases 12%
Ryanair September passenger traffic increases 12%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 6, 2015 Tuesday 7:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 153 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of September 2015 was 9.55 million 
passengers, an increase of 12%, compared to 8.49 million passengers for September 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of September 2015 was 94%, an increase of four percentage points, compared to 90% for 
September 2014. Ryanair chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's September traffic grew by 12% to 
9.55m customers, while our load factor jumped 4% points to 94%. These record monthly numbers and load factors 
are due to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" 
customer experience programme, which continues to deliver stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our 
biggest ever summer schedule. "Ryanair customers can now look forward to more service enhancements, as we 
continue Year 2 of our AGB programme, which include our new car hire service, a new website, new app, new 
cabin interiors, new crew uniforms, and improved inflight menus, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more 
than just the lowest fares in Europe."
Load-Date: October 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair's passenger numbers soar
Ryanair's passenger numbers soar
City A.M.
October 6, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 157 words
Byline: LYNSEY BARBER
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair yesterday announced that the number of passengers it carried has soared 12 per cent, 
with 9.55m travelling in September, compared with 8.49m last year.
Load factors - how many seats were filled - increased four percentage points to 94 per cent.
"These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our 'Always Getting Better' customer experience programme, which continues to deliver 
stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our biggest ever summer schedule," said marketing chief Kenny 
Jacobs.
Rolling annual traffic - the number of passengers who have travelled with the carrier so far this year - now stands at 
97.3m, a rise of 16 per cent on the previous year.
Ryanair said it will continue to introduce new services such as car hire and embark on a makeover of its plane 
interiors in a bid to woo customers beyond cheap air fares.
Graphic
 
Ryanair's less abrasive attitude is paying dividends for the Irish budget airline
Ryanair's passenger numbers soar
Load-Date: October 6, 2015
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for October 5th 2015
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for October 5th 2015
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
October 5, 2015 Monday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 245 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Monday, October 5th 2015  ^ DATA RELEASES 
08:00 IRL: Ryanair                                   Traffic Data 09/15 09:15 E:   PMI Services 09/15 09:50 F:   PMI Services 
09/15 (Final ) 09:55 D:   PMI Services 09/15 (Final ) 10:00 EU:  PMI Services 09/15 (Final ) 10:30 GB:  PMI 
Services 09/15 10:30 D:   Sentix Economic Index 10/15 11:00 EU:  Retail Sales 08/15 11:00 NL:  Bills            
Maturity: 3 Months            Size: 2 bln EUR 14:50 F:   Bills            Maturity: 3, 6, 12 Months            Size: 7.6 bln Euro 
15:45 EU:  ECB Monthly report 09/15 15:45 USA: PMI Services 09/15 (Final ) 16:00 USA: ISM-Index Services 
09/15  MORE DATA RELEASES WITH NO TIME SPECIFIED       CH:  EMS-Chemie                                Q3        D:   
Frosta                                    9-Months Figures       GB:  International Airlines Group              Traffic Data 09/15       
GB:  Ferrexpo Plc                              Q3/15 Production Report       S:   SAS                                       Traffic Data 
09/15       D:   Continental - Schaeffler to announce new IPO time schedule        EU:  EU Eurogroup meeting, 
Brussels  NOTE      CHN: Public Holiday, Stock Exchange closed\xB0  While all data were researched with the 
greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the correctness of this information. 
All time designations are provided in CEST.  Copyright dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: October 5, 2015
End of Document
Growing up in public Monday interview: Michael O'Leary, Ryanair , CEO
Growing up in public; Monday interview: Michael O'Leary, Ryanair, CEO
Financial Times (London, England)
October 5, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: THE MONDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 14
Length: 1421 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Highlight: A less provocative, more adult approach has lifted profits, the head of Europe's biggest low-cost carrier 
tells Tanya Powley
Body
Within minutes of entering Michael O'Leary's office near Dublin airport, I quickly find myself at the receiving end of 
the jokey banter of Ryanair's voluble boss after he asks me who I flew with from London.
When I tell him that I travelled with rival airline British Airways and the flight landed 10 minutes late, Mr O'Leary's 
eyes twinkle with amusement. "You went for the high-cost option - and you were delayed," he laughs. "You'll be 
flying on Ryanair soon."
In his trademark open-necked shirt and jeans, the chief executive of Ryanair is in high spirits. And he has reason to 
be cheerful. The Irish airline, Europe's largest budget carrier that he has headed since 1994, is benefiting after its 
decision almost two years ago to treat its passengers as customers rather than adversaries. After two profit 
warnings in 2013, when oil prices were twice today's level, its new strategy helped boost its growth. Last month it 
increased full-year profit guidance by a quarter, to a range of EUR1.18bn to EUR1.21bn.
Gone are the days when he cultivated his deliberately spiky image , which saw him threaten to charge overweight 
passengers more and tell customers asking for a refund to "f*** off".
Growing up in public Monday interview: Michael O'Leary, Ryanair , CEO
Has Ryanair entered boring middle-age as it marks its 30th birthday this year? "We are probably moving from 
[being] what I would call errant teen-agers into being somewhat more adult in the way we both interact with our 
customers and communicate with the outside world," Mr O'Leary says.
He acknowledges that the cheeky start-up nature of the airline was alienating some of its customers, who preferred 
to pay a higher fare elsewhere because Ryanair irritated them too much. But in the early days of the airline, the 
provocative image was a deliberate way to generate lots of free publicity. Mr O'Leary says he became a "cartoon 
pantomime villain".
"I'm Irish so you're born with bullshit on tap. We can't help ourselves," he says. The economic imperative helped, he 
says, because the airline did not have the money for marketing. "You've got to go out and make as much noise as 
you can yourself. It becomes pretty simple."
But for those that enjoy the humour that Ryanair brings to the featureless plains of modern corporate life, the Irish 
carrier's new grown-up image does not mean the end of silly photo opportunities, during which Mr O'Leary has 
dressed up as anything from a mobile phone to the Pope. Only weeks before our meeting, he dressed as Batman's 
sidekick Robin to promote a new partnership with CarTrawler, a car website.
"Photo editors have a job to do so let's give them what they are looking for: middle-aged men in tights," he laughs.
The new, improved, "cuddly" Ryanair comes with offices to match. While its former headquarters next to Dublin 
airport looked tired and scruffy, the new building is colourful, with bright pictures chosen by staff on the walls. These 
range from an unconscious, drunk dog dressed as Father Christmas to giraffes and local football teams. There is 
even a games room and an emergency aircraft slide that takes you down to reception. It is a far cry from the mean 
low-cost airline that once issued, albeit for its publicity value, a memo banning employees from charging their 
mobile phones at work to save on electricity bills.
Behind Mr O'Leary's desk in his glass-walled office is a painting of his racehorse, Trifolium, a nod to the 54-year-
old's passion outside work . Mr O'Leary owns racehorses at his Gigginstown House Stud, part of his estate near the 
town of Mullingar, an hour's drive west of Dublin and where he grew up. His brother Eddie manages the 
Gigginstown operation and was the better rider of the two growing up, he says.
Would he consider retiring and focusing on racehorses? "Christ, no! Racehorses are not a business. Racehorses 
are just a money pit," he exclaims. "I enjoy jump racing only because there's not much else to do during winter but 
it's boxed off into 'hobby' and that's it."
In fact, retiring seems to be far from both his mind and his wife's, former banker Anita Farrell. "Anybody who has to 
live with me would not put pressure on me to retire," he jokes. "Jesus, I'm only 54. I'm such a beloved leader here. 
Can you imagine the devastation that I would cause if I announced on Monday I'm leaving?"
More than 20 years after he became chief executive, Mr O'Leary clearly continues to enjoy the challenge of 
expanding the no-frills behemoth. In 1991 the company flew 650,000 passengers on six aircraft. This year that will 
increase to an expected figure in excess of 100m with more than 300 aircraft. He admits what he enjoys most is 
working and says he will be involved in Ryanair as long as it is doing something "interesting".
He is tied into leading the airline until 2019 after signing a contract last year that replaced a rolling year-on-year 
arrangement in place since 1997. This year he will receive a basic package of EUR2.4m, up a third on 2014. 
According to one Irish newspaper's estimate he is worth more than EUR755m, largely thanks to a 3.7 per cent 
stake in Ryanair.
His 1,000-acre estate is his escape, where he enjoys walking through the fields with his four children - three boys 
and a girl all under the age of 10 - collecting horse chestnuts on a recent weekend. "I enjoy it as a release or as a 
change from running Ryanair or flying around Europe. I grew up on a farm. I wanted my kids to do the same." His 
children are not very aware of his public image, he says, as he does little media in Ireland beyond corporate 
interviews and the occasional racehorse item.
Growing up in public Monday interview: Michael O'Leary, Ryanair , CEO
"I've always been very careful. If you Google me, apart from horseracing, there'll be nothing out there personally 
about me or my family, my wife and kids. We live quietly," he says.
Before he became an extrovert chief executive he was a tax accountant. The son of a businessman, Mr O'Leary 
was educated at Ireland's best schools. He claims he was never interested in aviation as a child and still is not. 
"People ask me do you fly? Well yes, in the passenger seat. Would you like to learn how to fly? No! What the hell 
for? It's incredibly dull." His entry into the industry was an accident, he says, through working as an accountant for 
the Ryan family.
"It lost humongous amounts of money for the first two or three years, in the mid-1980s. I recommended very 
strongly that they shut it down because it would never, ever make any money, which goes to show my lack of basic 
foresight," he says.
Mr O'Leary was sent in to staunch the losses, which saw him cut the fleet by about 12, to six aircraft. After visiting 
Southwest Airlines in the US, the original low-cost airline, Ryanair found its successful model.
Throughout our conversation, Mr O'Leary often leans back in his chair and waves his hands around to emphasise a 
point. He is set on plans to grow annual passenger numbers to about 160m in six to eight years, and almost double 
profits to EUR2bn.
He says he respects his competitors, acknowledging that Carolyn McCall , easyJet's chief executive, has done a 
"good job" at repositioning the brand away from trying to compete with Ryanair on price. "We're Lidl and Aldi. You 
don't want to get into a price war with us," he says.
Mr O'Leary says he will be more vocal in supporting Britain staying in Europe, despite having been critical of 
European regulation. "The EU gets a lot of unfair criticism in the UK, but it has delivered much for the UK economy. 
It needs people, companies like us, to actively campaign."
Meanwhile, Ryanair will maintain its softer approach, with the occasional bit of mischief. As Mr O'Leary says at the 
end of our interview: "I haven't sworn. I've been very good. I'm learning. I'm trying to get better."
CV
Born 20 March 1961, Republic of Ireland
Education  Clongowes Wood College; Economic and Social Studies, Trinity College, Dublin
Career 
1984: Tax consultant, KPMG
1986: Financial adviser to Tony Ryan
1988: Deputy chief executive, Ryanair
1991: Chief operating officer, Ryanair
1994: Chief executive officer, Ryanair
Interests  Horseracing and football
Second opinion
The former rival CEO
Growing up in public Monday interview: Michael O'Leary, Ryanair , CEO
Christoph Mueller, chief executive at Malaysia Airlines, spent five years as one of Mr O'Leary's main rivals, as head 
of Aer Lingus. Ryanair was also one of its main shareholders, after Mr O'Leary attempted to buy its Irish competitor 
several times.
"I have been in a lot of competition, all over the world, and in everything from cargo to charter to low-cost," he says. 
"Michael was by far the best fun to compete against. Very tough, very Irish but always a gentleman."
Load-Date: October 4, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair traffic grows 12% Ryanair traffic...
Ryanair traffic grows 12%; Ryanair traffic...
Business World (Digest)
October 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 110 words
Highlight: Ryanair has today released traffic statistics for September.
Body
Ryanair has today released traffic statistics for September.
According to the data, traffic grew 12% to 9.55m customers. While rolling annual traffic to September grew 16% to 
97.3m customers.
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair's September traffic grew by 12% to 9.55m customers, while our load factor 
jumped 4% points to 94%.
"These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience programme, which continues to deliver 
stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our biggest ever summer schedule." Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Sept. Traffic, Load Factor Increase
Ryanair Sept. Traffic, Load Factor Increase
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
October 5, 2015 Monday 8:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 175 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced that traffic for the 
month of September 2015 increased 12 percent to 9.55 million customers from 8.49 million customers in the same 
month of prior year.  Load factor for the month also improved by 4 percentage points to 94 percent from last year's 
90 percent.  Europe's favorite airline noted that the rolling annual traffic to September grew 16 percent to 97.3 
million customers.  'These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower fares, our stronger 
forward bookings and the continuing success of our 'Always Getting Better' customer experience programme, which 
continues to deliver stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our biggest ever summer schedule.  Looking 
ahead, Ryanair said customers can now look forward to more service enhancements, as it continues Year 2 of its 
AGB programme, which include new car hire service, a new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew 
uniforms, and improved inflight menus.      
Load-Date: October 5, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Sept. Traffic, Load Factor Increase - Quick Facts
Ryanair Sept. Traffic, Load Factor Increase - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
October 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 188 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced that traffic for the month of 
September 2015 increased 12 percent to 9.55 million customers from 8.49 million customers in the same month of 
prior year.
Load factor for the month also improved by 4 percentage points to 94 percent from last year's 90 percent.
Europe's favorite airline noted that the rolling annual traffic to September grew 16 percent to 97.3 million customers.
"These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience programme, which continues to deliver 
stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our biggest ever summer schedule.
Looking ahead, Ryanair said customers can now look forward to more service enhancements, as it continues Year 
2 of its AGB programme, which include new car hire service, a new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new 
crew uniforms, and improved inflight menus.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: October 5, 2015
End of Document
OLIVER GROUP BUYS DIGITAL AGENCY DARE THE WEEK IN BRIEF
OLIVER GROUP BUYS DIGITAL AGENCY DARE; THE WEEK IN BRIEF
City A.M.
October 5, 2015 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 21
Length: 69 words
Body
The independent agency Oliver Group has acquired Dare from EDC Communications. The digital shop was created 
in 2000 by former Bartle Bogle Hegarty joint managing director Mark Collier and has won several awards for its 
mobile campaigns for Axe (Lynx) before it was purchased by Cossette, a Canadian group, in 2007. Dare, whose 
clients include EE, Nike, Barclays and Ryanair, will continue to operate independently.
Load-Date: October 5, 2015
End of Document
Kerry Group's pathway to success has been challenging and complex, but the best is, almost certainly, yet to 
come
Kerry Group's pathway to success has been challenging and complex, but 
the best is, almost certainly, yet to come
Sunday Business Post
October 4, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1328 words
Body
Success never comes easy in business unless you enjoy something close to a monopoly, have a huge inherited 
franchise, or a patented product for which there is a mass market and high barriers to entry for others.
Looking at the Irish plcs which have risen to the top in performance terms, Ryanair created its own success. But it 
was initially facilitated by the presence of what was then a state-owned, commercially deficient domestic airline that 
was massively over-staffed, had a    high cost   culture and hence offered an over-priced service which people 
generally availed of only when they had to.
Similarly our banks enjoyed a near duopoly. Before modern technology there was in essence just one nationwide 
distribution channel (the branches) with a dominant position enjoyed by the two majors (AIB and Bank of Ireland) - 
unthreatened for decades by technological disruption.
There were other companies too - less complex in many ways than Kerry Group. The highly cyclical (like Smurfit 
and CRH); food players IAWS (now Aryzta) and Glanbia. While these have all made good progress, in terms of 
consistency of growth and reliability of their track record, relatively speaking, they have been in the halfpenny place.
Kerry Group - with uninterrupted earnings and dividend growth over the past decade and a prudently geared 
balance sheet - is now a truly global group with a presence in more than 120 countries, a stock market value of 
EUR 11.6 billion (double what it was just years ago).
Kerry is perhaps the only shining example of an Irish plc that has consistently excelled in its corporate governance 
and in corporate development through its formidable strategic capabilities in transforming a local cooperative step 
by step into what is now one of the world's leading global flavours and ingredients businesses supplying the world's 
top international food and drinks manufacturers.
Kerry Group's pathway to success has been challenging and complex, but the best is, almost certainly, yet to 
come
Through their formulations and research and development, Kerry has progressively knotted into place a range of 
strong and sustainable growth platforms which enjoy real competitive advantage, and the pricing power that goes 
with it.
For Kerry, a milestone was reached last week with the official opening of its Global Technology and Innovation 
Centre in Co Kildare, its global centre for scientific research and nutrition as well as a support centre for its 
customer base across Europe, the Middle East, and Africa - part of a major strategic plan first hatched nearly a 
decade ago.
That plan has now come to fruition. Since its original strategic decision to internationalise through acquisitions (of 
which it has made more than 200 over the past 30 years), Kerry has, despite being among the youngest of most of 
the global players in ingredients and flavours, become (along with DuPont and Corn Products International) one of 
the leaders in consolidating the industry globally.
The mega trends that are now driving growth in Kerry's markets include the global trend towards healthier food and 
drinks, a parallel increase in demand for more natural ingredients, and a bigger emphasis on convenience foods 
arising from the growth in    time poor, cash rich consumers  .
Formulations and ingredients that serve specific health, wellness and nutritional requirements of the many age 
segments of the population are also an important part of the Kerry offering and future opportunity. Kerry's new 
product development, innovation and technology centre in Kildare is unique in its nature and scope, and the 'One 
Kerry' project which, through this centre of excellence is propelling the company forward in terms of innovation and 
in generating substantial cost efficiencies in support functions for the wider business.
The opportunity that this global technology and innovation centre presents for a single interface with its 
multinational customer base and for meeting and collaborating with them to deliver the formulations, textures, 
flavours and functionalities that they demand in response to an ever-changing and more demanding consumer 
should confer considerable competitive advantage.
Barriers to entry are relatively high in food ingredients, hence for Kerry, growth has had to be acquisition led. This 
has meant that instead of paying out generous dividends, the company has deployed cashflows from existing 
businesses to finance a continuous programme of acquisitions over the past 30 years - some transformative, many 
incremental - but all adding to the group's capabilities to enhance the scale and scope of their value added offering 
to their powerful global food manufacturing base. Increasingly diverse consumers whose demands in terms of 
functional, formulation and nutritional requirements evolve and change with age, lifestyle, wealth and health 
presents a challenge for    Big Food   companies.
Kerry's ingredients and flavours division is not only a provider to the global food manufacturers, it is effectively a 
support function for them too. Its intellectual property, science, formulations and collaborative engagement with 
customers in assisting product development to meet the changing and highly segmented end-consumers that their 
customers serve is what gives them their pricing power which, along with continuous bolt-on acquisitions, 
strengthens capability, expands global reach and drives the growth in the bottom line.
Kerry Group's growth story through four decades has - almost alone among Irish corporates - been a story without 
either a stumble or a scandal. Rarely interrupted advances in earnings through good times and bad are explained 
by the strong corporate culture, the outward looking perspective with a global vision, the strong governance and risk 
management processes, and the relentless pursuit of operational excellence and sustainable competitive 
advantage.
Shareholders have never been rewarded with generous dividends, but have been well rewarded by the company 
retaining the lion's share of the added value it generates to re-invest and redeploy in the business itself, improving 
its processes, extending its reach, broadening and deepening its relationships with, and hold on, its customer base, 
and ensuring disciplined capital management that adds value for shareholders through consistently high returns on 
equity and on the capital employed in the business.
Kerry Group's pathway to success has been challenging and complex, but the best is, almost certainly, yet to 
come
Whether shareholders get their returns via capital appreciation or dividends it shouldn't really matter (although for 
tax reasons capital appreciation will often be preferable).
The development of infrastructure and technologies to serve a global market where the growth dynamics across the 
cycles are likely to remain favourable for many years to come and where Kerry's ramped up innovation capabilities 
and acquisition skills should combine to underpin the delivery of double digit returns on equity and on the capital it 
employs in the business which has been a consistent feature over the past decade.
While the slowdown in emerging markets may be something of a headwind in the near term, the fall in commodity 
prices should prove a countervailing tailwind.
Longer term, investors have a choice: if they want capital accumulation, based on management's track record to 
date they should be happy to leave the group's management with the earnings generated to reinvest in the 
business rather than paying out dividends at a materially higher level than currently.
A change in dividend policy may be attractive for income investors, but Kerry's investor base is predominantly 
populated by those looking for long term capital growth rather than income.
To shift this would constrain the further development of the business.
On the basis of its four-decade long track record to date, I have trust in Kerry's management to continue to deliver 
growth organically and by acquisition, financed by retained earnings. That track record under the same 
management team and current strategy should serve to underpin the continued creation of enhanced value for 
shareholders - of whom I am happily one.
Load-Date: October 5, 2015
End of Document
The week in business
The week in business
Sunday Business Post
October 4, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1001 words
Body
Ryan's heir propels promising start-ups
Venturing to the commuter-crammed wilds of Citywest in rush hour is no small mission. But it was worth it.
I called out on Thursday to the DCU Ryan Academy, which is chaired by aviation entrepreneur Declan Ryan, to see 
its Propeller fund start-ups showcase their wares.
An accelerator fund that nurtures start-ups of all kinds hopefully into the bigtime, it usually attracts some big names 
and I noticed that software tycoon Pat McDonagh was there, looking on with great interest. Each of the five firms 
got EUR 45,000 in cash and services in return for a 7.5 per cent equity share and access to a top-flight group of 
mentors and investors.
Propeller has seen 24 companies pass through and raise over EUR 9 million in funding and employ 100 people 
between them to date, chief executive Eoghan Stack told us.
The company of the year gong went to Rendicity, a firm with a cool cloud software solution to help animation 
studios and architects render 3D images which has attracted interest from IBM and Huawei.
Others involved were DropChef, a healthy and tasty meal solution for the time poor, eco waste bag maker Obeo, 
big data tackler Red Sqirl and business-to-business solution firm AppSelekt.
I missed UStart, the student start-up pitches later that day, but I hear they were equally impressive. App firm 
PhotoCad was named the company of the year there, while eco energy donations platform DaysE was judged 
UStart's 'most innovative company'.
One of the student start-ups, fintech firm TouchTech Payments is already en route to raising upwards of EUR 
500,000, I hear.
The week in business
Ever feel like you wasted your youth?
   Better to break the handle than let the spade rust,   as Eoghan Stack put it, quoting Declan's dad Tony Ryan, the 
legendary Ryanair founder.
Declan, who usually hosts the event, was absent as, sadly, his mother Mairéad passed away during the week.
.........................
**Any more Longboat Quays?**
I'm told by reliable sources that Longboat Quay, the Bernard McNamara built Dublin development that looks set to 
cost the taxpayer and owners millions in fire safety repair is not the only building where the state may end up having 
a liability.
I've asked questions of the state's docklands authority, the DDDA and Dublin City Council and sought Freedom of 
Information documents, and my requests were twice declined.
An appeal to the Information Commissioner has been pending since early July and will take several months more, 
its office tells me. The holdup is partly because there was    some difficulty obtaining records from the body 
responsible  . I know the feeling.
..........................
**Murphy queries CIE's skyscraper deal**
Catherine Murphy, the Social Democrats TD known for having the kind of enquiring mind more politicians could do 
with, was well refreshed when the Dáil returned last week, with plenty of parliamentary questions lined up.
One of them was about the deal struck by CIE during the summer to partner with Johnny Ronan to develop a very 
nicely-located, docklands-adjacent site at Tara Street, Dublin with plans for a EUR 130 million skyscraper.
Funnily enough, I had a call from someone who claimed to be an underbidder in that tender process, asserting that 
the first they heard of the winning bid was when they read it in the press. So I made a few calls, but others involved 
in the bid either declined to comment or said they were very happy with, and even praised, the way CIE conducted 
the process.
Murphy asked transport minister Paschal Donohoe whether he had received any correspondence voicing concerns 
or queries from third parties about how the sale was conducted.
Donohue responded that CIE's property disposals were a matter for the transport body, and that he had received no 
correspondence on the issue.
So all is well clearly. But it never hurts to ask.
..........................
**Powerscourt hotel suite tiff back in court**
I hear that Tetrarch, the owner of the five-star Powerscourt Hotel in Wicklow is still trying to tackle a standoff with 
investors over its luxurious private suites.
The beaks at the High Court are still mostly on their holidays, but among the proceedings waiting for an airing on 
their return are new cases lodged against Meath developer Eugene O'Connor and another Powerscourt suite 
owner.
The legals relate to claims for outstanding service fees apparently.
The week in business
Last year, O'Connor set about leasing his suite through an ad saying that he would accept social welfare rent 
allowance at the five-star property with access to a Swarovski crystal lite pool, gym and champion golf courses.
A Tetrarch-related company and its US investment partner bought the hotel, formerly the Ritz-Carlton, from Nama 
in 2013.
O'Connor and O'Leary were among 200 investors who paid EUR 1.32 million each for suites there which were to be 
leased back to the hotel. Under the new owners and in the new economic climate, the rent was cut by half.
.........................
**Board favourite joins Origin**
Congratulations to Rose Hynes, the former Bank of Ireland director who is most in demand as a non executive 
board presence and has now joined the board of agri-services group Origin.
The North Clare native is also chairwoman of Ervia, which runs Irish Water, having formerly chaired under its old 
Bord Gáis identity, and of Shannon Airport Authority.
Then further on the private sector side she is a director of fruit and veg giant Total Produce and of investment 
company One51.
Past board roles include Fyffes, Aer Lingus and Concern.
She was a director of Bank of Ireland Mortgage Bank in 2004 and then joined its main board in 2007 just as things 
were about to go rather pear shaped for the banking system.
.........................
**Tweete of the week:**Edward Snowden @Snowden Sep 29    Can you hear me now?   Edward Snowden joins 
Twitter and gains 1.2 million followers overnight
..........................
**Word on the street:**Shy and retiring rocker Bono may be one of the backers of a zeitgeisty new Irish start-up 
launching soon
Load-Date: October 5, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches summer 2016 Edinburgh schedule
Ryanair launches summer 2016 Edinburgh schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 2, 2015 Friday 6:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 141 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has launched its summer 2016 Edinburgh schedule with one new route to Copenhagen.
Body
Ryanair's summer 2016 Edinburgh schedule will deliver: 33 routes; 1 new route Copenhagen (4 weekly); more 
flights to Alicante, Barcelona, Brussels, Gdansk, Krakow, London, Malaga, Malta & Palma; 2.3m customers p.a. 
(12% growth); and support 1,725 "on-site" jobs at Edinburgh Airport. In Edinburgh, Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: 
"Ryanair is pleased to launch our Summer 2016 Edinburgh schedule, with a new route to Copenhagen, and more 
flights on 9 other routes including our Edinburgh - London route to 5 times daily, which will deliver 2.3m customers 
p.a. and support 1,725 "on-site" jobs at Edinburgh Airport. "To celebrate the launch of our Edinburgh Summer 2016 
schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our European network at fares starting from just 
GBP19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (1 Oct)."
Load-Date: October 8, 2015
End of Document
Q & A
Q & A
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
October 1, 2015 Thursday 2:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 607 words
Body
       'Ryanfair': How dpa was ensnared by a hoax By Jens Dudziak and Thomas Pfaffe, dpa   There is hardly 
anything worse for a news agency than falling victim to a hoax. It happened to dpa on Wednesday.  BERLIN (dpa-
AFX) - The German Press Agency fell victim Wednesday to a hoax that involved false information about a 
programme for transporting refugees.  An announcement that appeared to be sent by the Irish discount airline 
Ryanair described a programme under which the carrier would transport refugees without visas from Greece and 
some Eastern European countries into other EU countries. 
The announcement was a fake.  The email was sent by a source that so far has not been identified. There is no 
Ryanair refugee programme with the name Ryanfair. Dpa retracted the report that was based on the fake 
announcement as soon as the hoax was exposed.  How did the mistake occur?  The announcement in English 
arrived Wednesday morning in the email inbox of dpa at its headquarters in Berlin. In the subject line were the 
words Press Release - Ryanair for Refugees. The text contained an announcement saying the airline intended to 
ferry refugees within the EU without checking visas. The email contained details about the purported offer, including 
when it started, departure locations and destination countries.  The email was forwarded to dpa's London bureau, 
which is responsible for news from Ireland. A dpa correspondent there wrote an initial short story about the airline's 
purported campaign, followed by a longer article. Both were edited in Berlin and sent to dpa's clients.  Was the 
mistake avoidable?  First and foremost: dpa shouldn't have relied solely on a news release for an important story 
such as this. In this case the news release could have been relatively easily recognized as a fake. The sender's 
address, using the domain @ryanfair.org, should have raised suspicion; the correct internet domain of the airline is 
ryanair.com. Overall, the information was not researched carefully enough.  Who was the originator of the fake?  
This isn't known. The email with the fake news release was sent from Italy. The country of origin can be determined 
from the IP address, which is normally in the undisplayed technical header. Google mailservices was used to sent 
the email.  There is in fact an internet website with the address ryanfair.org. It looks similar to the real Ryanair site 
in terms of colour and has the fake Ryanair programme in the centre of its homepage. In addition, the site includes 
data about Ryanair's fleet and other information, which is also located on the real Ryanair site.  An inquiry at 
Whois.net, a database for web addresses, shows that ryanfair.org obviously does not belong to Ryanair. Who 
registered the domain is not recorded, in contrast to nearly all corporate websites. In addition, ryanfair.org has 
Q & A
existed only since September 16. This allows the conclusion to be reached that the internet page was set up 
specifically as a fake.  Unfortunately, these inconsistencies were noticed by dpa only later, in a review of how the 
mistake occurred.  Are such hoaxes common?  Fake announcements - sent previously by fax and now in email or 
over social networks - are received often by news agencies. The vast majority are uncovered, but unfortunately not 
all.  What does dpa do to avoid such mistakes?  The agency continually reviews its procedures and reevaluates its 
practices and safeguards. When dpa receives completely unexpected or implausible statements, it is obliged to 
take steps to ensure the veracity of the material in order not to fall victim to a hoax or hacking.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: October 1, 2015
End of Document
Q & A
Q & A
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
October 1, 2015 Thursday 2:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 606 words
Body
       'Ryanfair': How dpa was ensnared by a hoax By Jens Dudziak and Thomas Pfaffe, dpa   There is hardly 
anything worse for a news agency than falling victim to a hoax. It happened to dpa on Wednesday.  BERLIN (dpa-
AFX) - The German Press Agency fell victim Wednesday to a hoax that involved false information about a 
programme for transporting refugees.  An announcement that appeared to be sent by the Irish discount airline 
Ryanair described a programme under which the carrier would transport refugees without visas from Greece and 
some Eastern European countries into other EU countries. 
The announcement was a fake.  The email was sent by a source that so far has not been identified. There is no 
Ryanair refugee programme with the name Ryanfair. Dpa retracted the report that was based on the fake 
announcement as soon as the hoax was exposed.  How did the mistake occur?  The announcement in English 
arrived Wednesday morning in the email inbox of dpa at its headquarters in Berlin. In the subject line were the 
words Press Release - Ryanair for Refugees. The text contained an announcement saying the airline intended to 
ferry refugees within the EU without checking visas. The email contained details about the purported offer, including 
when it started, departure locations and destination countries.  The email was forwarded to dpa's London bureau, 
which is responsible for news from Ireland. A dpa correspondent there wrote an initial short story about the airline's 
purported campaign, followed by a longer article. Both were edited in Berlin and sent to dpa's clients.  Was the 
mistake avoidable?  First and foremost: dpa shouldn't have relied solely on a news release for an important story 
such as this. In this case the news release could have been relatively easily recognized as a fake. The sender's 
address, using the domain @ryanfair.org, should have raised suspicion; the correct internet domain of the airline is 
ryanair.com. Overall, the information was researched carefully enough.  Who was the originator of the fake?  This 
isn't known. The email with the fake news release was sent from Italy. The country of origin can be determined from 
the IP address, which is normally in the undisplayed technical header. Google mailservices was used to sent the 
email.  There is in fact an internet website with the address ryanfair.org. It looks similar to the real Ryanair site in 
terms of colour and has the fake Ryanair programme in the centre of its homepage. In addition, the site includes 
data about Ryanair's fleet and other information, which is also located on the real Ryanair site.  An inquiry at 
Whois.net, a database for web addresses, shows that ryanfair.org obviously does not belong to Ryanair. Who 
registered the domain is not recorded, in contrast to nearly all corporate websites. In addition, ryanfair.org has 
Q & A
existed only since September 16. This allows the conclusion to be reached that the internet page was set up 
specifically as a fake.  Unfortunately, these inconsistencies were noticed by dpa only later, in a review of how the 
mistake occurred.  Are such hoaxes common?  Fake announcements - sent previously by fax and now in email or 
over social networks - are received often by news agencies. The vast majority are uncovered, but unfortunately not 
all.  What does dpa do to avoid such mistakes?  The agency continually reviews its procedures and reevaluates its 
practices and safeguards. When dpa receives completely unexpected or implausible statements, it is obliged to 
take steps to ensure the veracity of the material in order not to fall victim to a hoax or hacking.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: October 1, 2015
End of Document
Analysis: Etihad closes $700 million bond
Analysis: Etihad closes $700 million bond
AirFinance Journal
October 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,MIDDLE 
EAST,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,RISK,ANALYSIS,SEYCHELLES,INDIA,GERMANY,ITALY,SERBIA,UNITED 
ARAB EMIRATES
Length: 1921 words
Highlight: The Etihad Alliance Partners' bond was arranged on an unsecured basis despite the fact that several of 
the obligors are weak credits. Jack Dutton and Mike Duff investigate.
Body
Etihad closed a novel $700 million platform financing to raise five-year unsecured debt for members of its equity 
alliance in September. The financing was arranged on an unsecured basis, despite the fact that some of the 
obligors are weak credits.
The structure involves the issue of fixed-rate notes by an orphan special purpose vehicle, EA Partners IBV (EAP), 
the proceeds of which have been on-lent to the six airline partners "" Etihad, Alitalia-CAI, airberlin, Jet Airways, Air 
Serbia and Air Seychelles "" and Etihad subsidiary Etihad Aviation Services (EAS). The allocation of the proceeds 
is shown in Figure 1.
The deal was structured as a collateralized loan obligation (CLO). Some would call it a blended credit, where the 
better rated sweet tranches come with the requirement also to assume some of the sour tranches, all blended in a 
single interest rate. Each of the obligors' material obligations is on a several basis, though default by one may lead 
to an event of default on the notes.
Figure One (source: offering memorandum)
The notes carry a coupon of 6.875%, payable quarterly for a period of five years and are listed on the Global 
Exchange Market, which is regulated by the Irish Stock Exchange. They mature on September 28 2020. The notes 
priced at par.  The mandate for the deal was given a year ago and was initially set at a $1.3 billion programme. The 
proceeds from the bond will be used for a mixture of capital expenditure and investment in fleet, as well as for 
refinancing, depending on each airline's individual needs, according to a statement released by Etihad. Etihad 
declined to comment on the transaction. Goldman Sachs International, ADS Securities and boutique merchant bank 
Anoa Capital acted as joint lead book-running managers for the offering. Ashurst represented the managers on the 
deal, while Paul Hastings Europe and Loyans & Loeff represented the issuer (EAP) and Freshfields Bruckhaus 
Deringer represented the obligors (the airlines and EAS). Each obligor pays a different coupon, reflective of their 
individual credit risk, as shown in Figure 2. Etihad has paid a high price for its share of the financing when 
compared with straight unsecured bond issues by its highly rated peers. It is paying a coupon of 4.16% for its 
portion, compared to Ryanair's (BBB+) 1.125% for eight years and WestJet's (BBB-) 3.287% for five-year 
Analysis: Etihad closes $700 million bond
unsecured financing. The facility adds more debt to already stretched balance sheets, which might be better 
bolstered by equity financing. However, the deal was innovative and raised unsecured funding for the equity 
partners without recourse to Etihad, so it presumably achieved the airline's objectives.
Deal structure
The structure of the transaction originally confused investors, partly because the deal had certain credit 
enhancement elements to it.
Figure 2
Source: offering memorandum and source on the deal.
The deal was marketed as a bespoke CLO, involving the special purpose vehicle, EAP, providing individual 
unsecured loans to each of the obligors. The security of the transaction is the loans provided by EAP. By definition, 
the investors are structurally subordinated to the senior secured debt of each obligor and unsecured debt of the 
obligors' subsidiaries.
The primary credit protection for investors comes in the form of change of control language for each individual 
obligor, limited negative pledge conditions and limitations on distributions by any of the obligors in the event that 
certain conditions are not met. These include a 2:1 coverage ratio measured as earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortization (Ebitda) divided by fixed charges (debt interest and interest component of finance 
lease rentals).
There are also further enhancements. The first is a liquidity pool comprising an initial deposit of 4.75% of the 
notional loan amounts and additional deposits of 10% of each obligor's coupon payments, which are placed into a 
cash reserve account and can be applied to an overdue coupon payment. This is the only cross-collateralized 
feature of the transaction.
Another enhancement is a ratchet mechanism, which protects the investors in the bond if one of the obligors 
borrows at a higher rate later on. For example, if Alitalia under the structure pays 6.31% and, one year later, it 
borrows money at 9%, the investor captures some of the additional spread Alitalia is paying on the other loan.
"The deal has a cash reserve that is composed of three components: one, 4.75% of initial deposit; two, 10% of 
coupons; and three, a ratchet mechanism. They are all available to investors in case of a default," says Nader Al 
Salim, executive director, investment banking division, Goldman Sachs, who led the transaction.
Determining the rating
Etihad obtained an unsecured rating of A- from Fitch earlier this year, making it the highest-rated airline in the 
world. Notably, however, this rating was based on the sovereign ratings criteria and not the airline ratings criteria. 
According to Fitch, the rating "incorporates strategic, operational and, to a lesser extent, legal ties with its sole 
shareholder Abu Dhabi (AA/Stable)".
The transaction is not cross-guaranteed, meaning each airline is standing on its own feet from a risk perspective. 
Each airline obtained its own individual rating. The overall rating for the transaction of B- was not determined by 
averaging the ratings of all the obligors involved, but instead was taken from the lowest-rated obligor, according to 
two sources that worked on the deal. They added that the lowest-rated airline was airberlin, at B-, and, not 
unexpectedly, has the highest coupon at 10.56%.
Fitch in its rating of the transaction stated: "While the obligors with the weakest profiles alsobenefit from the 
shareholder support of their minority parent, Etihad Airways, their standalone profiles remain weak largely due to 
weak credit metrics."
The summary financial and operational data about each of the obligors provided in the offering memorandum is 
shown in Figures 3 and 4.
Analysis: Etihad closes $700 million bond
Figure 3
Source: offering memorandum
We have added some data and ratios to provide a better insight to the credits, starting with the earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (Ebitdar) margin. While these calculations show Etihad having a mid-
teen Ebitdar margin, the Ebitdar margins for Alitalia, airberlin and Jet Airways are weak, in the 4% to 8% range. The 
two smallest carriers, by contrast, have high Ebitdar margins.
Leverage is calculated by incorporating the capitalized value of operating leases based on the companies' reports 
or estimates from The Airline Analyst. The leverage calculations show the challenge that lies ahead for Etihad in 
turning the individual obligors' performance around so that the companies can support their high levels of adjusted 
debt. In fact, even Etihad has high leverage by this measure.
A difficult deal
According to Dirk van Daele, chief executive officer of Anoa Capital, an undiversified CLO at $700 million is big in 
its own right in the CLO market. Daele adds that producing a CLO against mainly an emerging market portfolio has 
not been done before.
"The structure of this offering is unique in both size and nature. It is a large, high-yield CLO focusing on corporate 
loans, with seven borrowers, each of whom have been individually rated," van Daele tells Airfinance Journal.
A source on the deal, who did not want to be named, told Airfinance Journal: "When the deal hit the market, nobody 
wanted to touch it. For example, anybody you would approach with this deal would say, "~Oh, so Etihad's going to 
guarantee the whole thing?' No. Or "~You are going to provide collateral?' No."
A year ago, none of the airlines involved had a credit rating. The bookrunners convinced Etihad that it needed to get 
a public rating and then take all the other airlines involved to the ratings agency to get individual ratings.
Etihad had the choice of either leaving its equity partners to fend for themselves and source its own funding or 
trying to pull the capital together. Why did it choose to pull the capital together in one bond? Although the deal was 
creative and innovative, it was highly expensive for Etihad.
"It's a valid point, but say you were going to do it all separately, like going to do an airberlin bond: investors don't 
want a $200 million bond because they don't view it as a liquid enough," says Al Salim. "If you need $150 million of 
senior unsecured funding, you're not going to do a bond for $150 million funding. When you do something for the 
group, it becomes of a certain scale and it enhances liquidity."
Another source on the deal adds: "Then what we had was called a non-diversified CLO. If you are going to take 
such a structure, and then put it in an environment of emerging markets, yes, initially, a lot of people run away. We 
took this project on. We worked on it with all the airlines, with the rating agency. Then, in about June, we got one of 
our partners involved, which was ADS Securities. We are doing other deals to do with the Middle East region with 
them, and then Goldman came on board."
Van Daele tells Airfinance Journal that Anoa Capital wanted to enter the marketplace being a price setter, not a 
price taker. Initially, it closed the deal at $500 million. On the night it closed the deal, investors said to Anoa that 
they were interested in coming in if Anoa was to price the bond at a higher level. It reopened the bond the next day 
and accommodated another large institutional investor, raising another $200 million to make $700 million overall.
Road show
The bond was taken on road shows by the airline and the bookrunners in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and London. A 
statement released by Abu Dhabi Financial Group said it had placed and syndicated 20.3% of the note.
Analysis: Etihad closes $700 million bond
The airline and the bookrunners went to Dubai on Thursday for day one of the road show. On Friday they went to 
London, and then they went to Abu Dhabi on Sunday. On Monday, they were back in London and, on Tuesday, 
they closed the deal. With Eid being celebrated on September 24, the day after the road show, Etihad and the 
bookrunners were pressed for time.
"For this transaction to work, it needed to have two pillars.If you turn up in London and you don't have regional 
demand, why would they have a go if the region doesn't buy? So the investor base is sitting on bothestablished 
institutional investors out of the London market andthe regional demand from UAE," a source on the deal tells 
Airfinance Journal.
It was a diversified book across regions all the way from the Middle East to Europe. As well as the UK, there was 
participation from Italy, Germany and Switzerland.
"We wanted to be in and out of the market as quickly as possible given the volatility but we had a well-diversified 
participation from investors, including European participation," says Al Salim.
The bond has performed well in the secondary market and was trading at 104 on October 15. The bond was 
scalable, big enough for investors to care about and has proved to be liquid.
"It's a unique structure that acts as a centralized funding vehicle, and the next natural step in the strategic tie out 
within the equity alliance partners," says Al Salim. "It enables all airlines to access the capital markets in a 
transparent and efficient way. It allows investors to capture multiple airline risk in one structure buying into 
something large, liquid and a proxy to a group performance as opposed to a single entity exposure."
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.comand mduff@theairlineanalyst.com
Load-Date: November 16, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to flout EU visa rule to help asylum seekers
Ryanair to flout EU visa rule to help asylum seekers
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 30, 2015 Wednesday 1:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 243 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Budget airline Ryanair on Wednesday said it plans to flout EU rules by allowing asylum 
seekers without visas to board flights from several airports in south-eastern Europe to Belgium, Italy, France, Spain, 
Denmark and Germany.  A RyanFair campaign from October 12 will ignore a 2001 European Council directive that 
penalises airlines for failing to ensure that passengers have the right to enter their destination country, the company 
said. 
 The waiver will apply to non-EU passengers 'for whom the EU asylum right is applicable, and who will produce at 
the RyanFair desks a preliminary documentation concerning the chance of obtain asylum in the countries of 
destination,' it said.  The airline plans to open RyanFair desks in Kos, Greece; Podgorica, Montenegro; Bratislava, 
Slovakia; and Budapest, Hungary.  'We decided to open to refugees our routes from Greece and East Europe, 
violating a rule that simply dumps government responsibilities on the carriers,' said Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief 
marketing officer Kenny Jacobs.  'We will proudly cover all the costs of this violation,' Jacobs said.  'We want to give 
our small contribution to healing the suffering for thousands of refugees who were forced to abandon their homes 
and flee for their lives.'  He said Ryanair hoped other airlines will 'join us in this campaign, and force the EU to come 
together and agree to a plan to tackle the refugee crisis.'   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: September 30, 2015
End of Document
Wizz Air: purple patch
Wizz Air: purple patch
Financial Times (London, England)
September 30, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 16
Length: 333 words
Body
An eastern European budget airline with a goofy name sounds like the punchline of a gag about bad investment 
ideas. But Wizz Air is no joke. It made it onto the London Stock Exchange at the second attempt this year. The 
shares are up over 60 per cent, outperforming rival low-cost carriers. It just raised its full-year profit targets for the 
second time this year.
Its private equity backers, who still own three-quarters of the company, may offload more shares now that post-IPO 
lock-up agreements have expired. That might cause temporary weakness in the shares. The bigger issue is 
whether the company can maintain its excellent profitability - its return on capital was an impressive 21 per cent last 
year - as it grows.
It may well. Wizz is based in Budapest, making for low costs. Staff expenses were just 7 per cent of revenue in the 
last year, even lower than Ryanair's 9 per cent. It operates in an underpenetrated market, central and eastern 
Europe, where spending power is growing. And it is domiciled in Switzerland, so it paid a tax rate of just 4.5 per 
cent last year. New aircraft will cut unit operating costs still further (but won't start arriving until 2019).
Support from falling fuel prices is limited. Hedging delays that impact, some gains are lost to exchange rates, and 
much of what remains is passed on as cheaper tickets. And there are inflationary pressures elsewhere. So for the 
2016 financial year, Wizz expects total costs to fall only slightly. Revenue per available seat kilometre is also 
expected to drop next year - seat miles flown will grow by almost a fifth, mostly on existing routes.
Wizz Air: purple patch
In terms of passenger numbers, Wizz is the size that Ryanair was in 2003. Its shares are fairly highly-rated, but 
expansion has been well managed - it is debt-free (excluding capitalised aircraft leases). Local flag carriers such as 
LOT and Tarom are weak . Low-cost rivals could cause pricing problems - a threat to all airlines. But for now, 
improbably, no one is laughing at Wizz.
Load-Date: September 29, 2015
End of Document
KILL KILL KILL
KILL KILL KILL
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 30, 2015 Wednesday 2:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 34 words
Body
       Attention editors Do not use this item  Attention editors:  Please kill this item as it was based on inaccurate 
information: Ryanair to flout EU visa rule to help asylum seekers.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: September 30, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to open new base at Santiago in Spain
Ryanair to open new base at Santiago in Spain
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 29, 2015 Tuesday 1:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 131 words
Highlight: Ryanair, an airline company, has announced that it will open a new base at Santiago in Spain for 
summer 2016, with one based aircraft.
Body
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce a new Santiago base for 
summer 2016, our 12th base in Spain, with one based aircraft, and we look forward to discussing growth 
possibilities with the Concello de Santiago de Compostela. As Spain's No.1 airline we are pleased to add another 
base airport to our network, which will allow us to offer improved schedules on domestic services, making Ryanair 
the idea choice for both business and leisure customers. "To celebrate our new Santiago base we are releasing 
seats for sale at prices starting from just E9.99 for travel in October, which must be booked by Monday (14 Sep). 
Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid 
missing out."
Load-Date: October 5, 2015
End of Document
O'Leary sees EUR2bn profits from ' Amazon for travel' plan Ryanair chief wants to sell more services such as 
hotels and concerts
O'Leary sees EUR2bn profits from 'Amazon for travel' plan; Ryanair chief 
wants to sell more services such as hotels and concerts
Financial Times (London, England)
September 28, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 19
Length: 469 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Michael O'Leary , Ryanair chief executive, wants to almost double annual profits to EUR2bn over the next six to 
eight years as the budget airline aims to become the "Amazon for travel" in Europe.
The target comes after a bumper summer in which Ryanair increased full-year profit guidance this month by a 
quarter to a range of EUR1.18bn-EUR1.23bn.
While Ryanair is looking for growth across Europe as it focuses on countries such as Germany , it also plans to 
expand its website into travel and leisure services, such as hotels and concerts.
"We now have an opportunity with the new website to build Ryanair.com not just as the airline's website but as a 
kind of Amazon for travel in Europe," said Mr O'Leary in an interview with the Financial Times. "All the services will 
be available on Ryanair.com - hotels, Trip-Advisor - we want to disintermediate all the disintermediators . . . We 
have the scale to do it."
Ancillaries were likely to stay about 20-25 per cent of total revenue, he said, but make a bigger contribution to 
profitability in the future.
O'Leary sees EUR2bn profits from ' Amazon for travel' plan Ryanair chief wants to sell more services such as 
hotels and concerts
His comments come as the airline benefits from the launch of its "Always Getting Better" campaign two years ago in 
which it sought to present a friendlier face and be "nicer" to passengers.
Following two profit warnings in 2013, Ryanair changed its business model , reduced or axed unpopular fees and 
let passengers take a second item of carry-on luggage. It is also flying to more primary airports and its website has 
been improved to make bookings easier.
Last week, the company announced plans to return EUR400m to shareholders, bringing the total funds returned by 
Ryanair to shareholders this year to EUR800m - and more than EUR3.3bn since 2008.
The airline wants to increase the number of passengers it carries from about 100m this year to 160m over the next 
six to eight years. Over that period, it is aiming for profits of EUR2bn.
Mr O'Leary ruled out the likelihood of Ryanair making any big acquisitions but said it could take minority stakes in 
rivals such as Lufthansa or Air France.
He expects market conditions to remain favourable for the next 12-18 months as low oil prices boost airlines' 
profitability.
"The summer peak this year was extraordinary. In all the 28 years I've been in the business I've never seen such a 
perfect summer. Even the incompetent airlines made money," he said, pointing towards the benefits of strong 
sterling, bad weather in northern Europe, recovering European economies and low fuel prices.
"In the absence of any unforeseen shock, the next 12 to 18 months - with the combination of low fuel prices, low 
finance costs - most airlines will look like they are geniuses run by management gurus until oil prices tick back up 
again and [then], as Warren Buffett said, you will see who is swimming naked and who's wearing trunks."
Load-Date: September 27, 2015
End of Document
LUFTHANSA HITS BACK AT RYANAIR
LUFTHANSA HITS BACK AT RYANAIR
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
September 28, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 7
Length: 44 words
Byline: ARCHIBALD PREUSCHAT, ELLEN PROPER
Body
ABSTRACT
Deutsche Lufthansa AG CEO Carsten Spohr says company's current revamp of its short-haul operations will 
protect its market share, and vows to defend German carrier's domestic market from further encroachment by 
budget airline Ryanair Holdings PLC and others (M)
Load-Date: September 28, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
September 27, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 548 words
Body
**Aryzta selling Origin Enterprises stake**
Irish-Swiss food group Aryzta has announced that it will sell off its stake in agri-services company Origin 
Enterprises.
Aryzta said it will sell more than 36 million ordinary shares in Origin - about 29 per cent of its ordinary share capital.
Origin reported operating profits of EUR 93 million for the year to the end of July last week, with revenues of EUR 
1.46 billion.
Meanwhile, Aryzta will publish results tomorrow.    This is a crucial earnings release for the company, which needs 
to deliver evidence of a rebound in North American volumes to help restore investor confidence in the stock,   
Cantor Fitzgerald said in a research note.
The broker said that investor confidence in Aryzta had been    significantly dented   in the past year.
**Boost for Ryanair shareholders**
Ryanair has said it will distribute the EUR 398 million it received from the sale of its 29.8 per cent stake in Aer 
Lingus to shareholders.
The money will be distributed via a 'B' share programme which the airline said will be concluded before December, 
subject to approval at an extraordinary general meeting.
Ryanair said this will bring total funds returned by the airline to shareholders this year to EUR 800 million, and to 
more than EUR 3.3 billion since 2008.
The airline expects to grow traffic by more than 13 million to 104 million customers this year while it foresees profits 
of EUR 1.2 billion, it announced at its annual general meeting last week.
Boardroom Briefing
**Management change at CRH**
CRH has said that Mark Towe, currently president and chief executive of its Oldcastle division in the US, will 
assume the new role of chairman of CRH Americas.
The appointment of Towe, who will remain on the board of the building materials company, is effective from January 
1, 2016.
Towe will work with chief executive Albert Manifold    to support performance and excellence programmes across 
the group  , the company said in a statement.
**Hibernia to hold egm next month**
Hibernia Reit will hold an extraordinary general meeting next month to consider the proposed    internalisation   of 
its investment manager.
Earlier this year, the property investment company announced plans to acquire its investment manager.
The proposed transaction will be considered at the meeting at the Marker Hotel in Dublin's Grand Canal Square on 
October 27.
**Currency weighs on Diageo profits**
Drinks giant Diageo, the maker of Guinness, has said that adverse currency shifts will reduce full-year operating 
profit by £150 million (EUR 208 million), more than it had expected previously.
In a trading update issued last week, the company's chief executive Ivan Menezes predicted    modest organic   
profit margin improvement as volume improves.
   Volume has grown mid-single digit reflecting both improved volume growth trends and comparison against 
weakness at the start of last year, especially in US spirits,   he said.
   Our outlook for this financial year included the possibility that further currency weakness could impact demand for 
premium spirits in the emerging markets.  
**The week ahead**
As mentioned above Aryzta will publish results tomorrow.
Also tomorrow, GameAccount Network, the gaming software firm headed by Dermot Smurfit Jr, will publish its 
results for the six months to June 30.
Load-Date: September 28, 2015
End of Document
Windfall for Ryanair investors Airlines
Windfall for Ryanair investors; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
September 25, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 24
Length: 235 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair will use the money from the sale of its 29.8 per cent stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus to return EUR400m to 
shareholders by the end of this year.
The low-cost airline agreed to sell its shareholding to International Airlines Group, the owner of British Airways and 
Iberia, in July as part of the group's EUR1.36bn takeover of Aer Lingus.
The EUR398m proceeds will bring the total funds returned by Ryanair to shareholders this year to EUR800m - and 
over EUR3.3bn since 2008.
Ryanair yesterday said it would return the money to shareholders by buying "B" shares in a programme expected to 
be completed by the end of the year. The return has to be approved by shareholders at an extraordinary general 
meeting.
The low-cost airline increased its full-year profit guidance by 25 per cent this month after more Britons spent their 
holidays in Europe. Ryanair said it was raising its net profit guidance to a range of EUR1.18bn to EUR1.23bn for the 
full year, up from EUR940m to EUR970m.
Strong trading led the company to bring forward a shareholder update scheduled for yesterday's AGM.
Windfall for Ryanair investors Airlines
In June, the Competition and Markets Authority, the UK watchdog, issued a final order to Ryanair, which was Aer 
Lingus's largest shareholder, to sell down its stake to below 5 per cent following lengthy regulatory scrutiny.
Aer Lingus delisted from the Irish and London stock exchanges last week after IAG completed its takeover.
Load-Date: September 24, 2015
End of Document
Thomas Cook shows signs of recovery after year of upheaval Travel & leisure
Thomas Cook shows signs of recovery after year of upheaval; Travel & 
leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 25, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 25
Length: 412 words
Byline: Daniel Dombey and Nathalie Thomas
Body
Thomas Cook, the UK holiday company, has said poor weather in northern Europe helped it recover from external 
shocks, as it seeks to draw a line under a year marked by controversy and a terrorist attack.
Yesterday the group reported that it had sold 91 per cent of its overall capacity for the summer 2015 season, which 
lasts until the end of October. This was a 2 per cent increase in bookings from the same period a year before, but 
the average selling price was down 2 per cent.
It left guidance unchanged from its update in July , when it had warned that a terrorist attack in Tunisia and the 
Greek crisis would hit its profits by about £25m.
Shares in Thomas Cook rose 2.7 per cent to close at 119p.
Peter Fankhauser , chief executive, said prospects for next year were encouraging, with more than a third of the 
coming winter season sold.
The group is working on a joint venture in China with Fosun , the country's largest private conglomerate, to focus on 
domestic, inbound and outbound tourism, which it said would become operational by the end of this year.
Thomas Cook shows signs of recovery after year of upheaval Travel & leisure
But the past 12 months have been difficult. In November Harriet Green 's tenure as chief executive ended abruptly 
amid tensions at the top of the company.
In May a British inquest jury ruled that Thomas Cook had breached its duty of care over the 2006 deaths of two 
children from carbon monoxide poisoning during a holiday it had sold, although it had no direct responsibility for the 
tragedy.
The group subsequently announced that it would make a substantial donation to charities nominated by the 
children's family.
After the June terrorist attack in Tunisia, which left 38 tourists dead, Thomas Cook cancelled all holidays to the 
country - where previously it had sent 35 flights a week - until the end of October.
The company also said in July that it would take a £39m hit to its pre-tax profits because of fluctuating currencies, in 
particular the fall of the euro and the Swedish krona against the pound.
However, in its latest update Thomas Cook said business in northern Europe had picked up after a slower start to 
first-half bookings, noting that sales had been helped by poor weather in Scandinavia.
The update came a day after Tui Group, Europe's largest travel company, said trading remained robust.
European airlines including Ryanair and easyJet have said summer bookings were better than expected as Britons 
in particular bought tickets to beach destinations in August to avoid drab summer weather at home.
Load-Date: September 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair investors will reap (EURO)400m in spoils from sale of Aer Lingus
Ryanair investors will reap (EURO)400m in spoils from sale of Aer Lingus
City A.M.
September 25, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 175 words
Byline: MADELINE RATCLIFFE
Body
RYANAIR announced at its AGM yesterday it would be sharing the (EURO)398m (£293m) spoils from the sale of its 
Aer Lingus stake with shareholders.
Ryanair agreed to sell its 29.8 per cent stake in the Irish airline to International Airlines Group, which owns British 
Airways and Iberia, this summer.
The budget airliner also said it would be increasing its full year traffic forecasts to 104m customers, from a previous 
estimate of 103m, and increasing its profits guidance by 25 per cent - to (EURO)1.2bn.
The company announced it expected the funds to be returned to shareholders before December, subject to EGM 
approval.
It will bring the total shareholder returns this year to (EURO)800m, and more than (EURO)3.3bn since 2008.
Ryanair chairman David Bonderman said: "During our 30th year, Ryanair will grow traffic by over 13m to 104m 
customers."
He added: "It is clear that consumers all over Europe are delighted by our 'Always Getting Better' customer 
experience programme, and our combination of low fares and customer service continues to deliver."
Load-Date: September 25, 2015
Ryanair investors will reap (EURO)400m in spoils from sale of Aer Lingus
End of Document
Ryanair to distribute 398m Aer Lingus proceeds to shareholders Ryanair to dist...
Ryanair to distribute 398m Aer Lingus proceeds to shareholders; Ryanair to 
dist...
Business World (Digest)
September 24, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 205 words
Highlight: Ryanair held their AGM in Dublin this morning.
Body
Ryanair held their AGM in Dublin this morning.
At the AGM Ryanair briefed shareholders on further AGB improvements later this year, including new primary 
airports in Amsterdam, Cologne, and Copenhagen, a new personalised website with advanced features ('hold the 
fare'), an improved mobile app, new cabin interiors, crew uniforms and improved inflight menus.
Ryanair's AGM also heard of plans to distribute the proceeds (E398m) from the sale of Ryanair's 29.8% stake in 
Aer Lingus, to its shareholders via a 'B' Share programme which will be concluded, subject to EGM approval, before 
December.
This will bring the total funds returned by Ryanair to shareholders this year to E800m and in excess of E3.3bn since 
2008. Ryanair Chairman David Bonderman commented, "Following the sale of our 29.8% stake in Aer Lingus, the 
Board intends to distribute the E398m proceeds to shareholders by way of a 'B' share programme. We expect this 
programme will be completed - subject to EGM approval - before the end of the calendar year. "When completed 
we will have returned E800m to shareholders this year, and over E3.3bn over the last 7 years, in addition to more 
than doubling our share price over the last 18 months." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 29, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair To Distribute EUR 398 Mln Aer Lingus Proceeds To Shareholders
Ryanair To Distribute EUR 398 Mln Aer Lingus Proceeds To Shareholders
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 24, 2015 Thursday 11:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 272 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) will distribute the 398 million euros proceeds  from 
the sale of its 29.8 percent stake in Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL.L) to its shareholders via a 'B' Share program to 
be concluded before December. 
The buyback needs the approval of an emergency general meeting.  It was in July that Ryanair decided to accept 
International Consolidated Airlines Group's   (ICAGY.PK, IAG.L) offer for Aer Lingus.  This will bring the total funds 
returned by Ryanair to shareholders this year to 800 million euros, Ryanair, which held its annual general meeting 
in Dublin today, said. This is in excess of 3.3 billion euros since 2008.     During the meeting, Ryanair briefed 
shareholders on the success of its 'Always Getting Better' or AGB customer experience program. The program 
enabled Ryanair to raise its full year traffic forecast to 104 million customers, and its profit guidance by 25 percent 
to 1.2 billion euros.  It was earlier this month that Ryanair lifted its profit guidance, citing stronger than expected 
peak summer traffic and prices, as its Always Getting Better customer experience program won new customers at 
slightly higher than estimated air fares.   Ryanair Chairman David Bonderman said today, 'It is clear that consumers 
all over Europe are delighted by, and switching to our 'AGB' customer experience programme, our industry leading 
punctuality and our unbeatable low fares. Ryanair's combination of low fares and AGB service continues to deliver 
for our customers, our people and our shareholders.'  RYA.L fell 1.5 percent in morning trade to 13.58 pence.      
Load-Date: September 24, 2015
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for September 24th 2015
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for September 24th 2015
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 24, 2015 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 207 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Thursday, September 24th 2015  ^ DATA 
RELEASES 08:00 S:   Hennes & Mauritz                      Q3  08:00 GB:  Thomas Cook                           Pre-close 
Trading Update 08:10 D:   GfK Consumer Sentiment 10/15 08:45 F:   Business Climate Indicator 09/15 10:00 D:   
ifo Business Climate 09/15 10:30 D:   Retail - HDE industry association autumn press conf., D\xFCsseldorf 14:30 
USA: Initial jobless claims (Week) 14:30 USA: Durable Goods 08/15 14:30 USA: CFNA-Index 08/15 15:00 B:   
Business Climate Indicator 09/15 16:00 USA: Existing Home Sales 08/15 18:00 F:   Unemployment data 08/15 
22:15 USA: Nike                                  Q1  MORE DATA RELEASES WITH NO TIME SPECIFIED       CH:  
Schaffner                             Investor Day, Z\xFCrich       CH:  Cassiopea                             Half Year Results       
GB:  Daily Mail & General Trust            Trading Update       IRL: Ryanair                               Annual General 
Meeting\xB0  While all data were researched with the greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH 
assumes no liability for the correctness of this information. All time designations are provided in CEST.  Copyright 
dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: September 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair To Distribute EUR 398 Mln Aer Lingus Proceeds To Shareholders
Ryanair To Distribute EUR 398 Mln Aer Lingus Proceeds To Shareholders
RTT News (United States)
September 24, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 284 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) will distribute the 398 million euros proceeds from the sale of its 
29.8 percent stake in Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL.L) to its shareholders via a 'B' Share program to be concluded 
before December. The buyback needs the approval of an emergency general meeting.
It was in July that Ryanair decided to accept International Consolidated Airlines Group's (ICAGY.PK, IAG.L) offer 
for Aer Lingus.
This will bring the total funds returned by Ryanair to shareholders this year to 800 million euros, Ryanair, which held 
its annual general meeting in Dublin today, said. This is in excess of 3.3 billion euros since 2008.
During the meeting, Ryanair briefed shareholders on the success of its "Always Getting Better" or AGB customer 
experience program. The program enabled Ryanair to raise its full year traffic forecast to 104 million customers, and 
its profit guidance by 25 percent to 1.2 billion euros.
It was earlier this month that Ryanair lifted its profit guidance, citing stronger than expected peak summer traffic and 
prices, as its Always Getting Better customer experience program won new customers at slightly higher than 
estimated air fares.
Ryanair Chairman David Bonderman said today, "It is clear that consumers all over Europe are delighted by, and 
switching to our "AGB" customer experience programme, our industry leading punctuality and our unbeatable low 
fares. Ryanair's combination of low fares and AGB service continues to deliver for our customers, our people and 
our shareholders."
RYA.L fell 1.5 percent in morning trade to 13.58 pence.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Plans To Distribute EUR 398 Mln Aer Lingus Proceeds To Shareholders
Ryanair Plans To Distribute EUR 398 Mln Aer Lingus Proceeds To 
Shareholders
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 24, 2015 Thursday 10:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 173 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) Thursday briefed shareholders on the continuing 
success of its 'Always Getting Better' or AGB customer experience programme, which has enabled Ryanair to raise 
its full year traffic forecast to 104 million customers from its previous 103 million customers, and its profit guidance 
by 25% to 1.2 billion euros.  Ryanair briefed shareholders on further AGB improvements later this year, including 
new primary airports in Amsterdam, Cologne, and Copenhagen, a new personalised website with advanced 
features, an improved mobile app, new cabin interiors, crew uniforms and improved inflight menus.  Ryanair plans 
to distribute the proceeds of 398 million euros from the sale of Ryanair's 29.8% stake in Aer Lingus, to its 
shareholders via a 'B' Share programme which will be concluded, subject to EGM approval, before December. This 
will bring the total funds returned by Ryanair to shareholders this year to 800 million euros and in excess of 3.3 
billion euros since 2008.      
Load-Date: September 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Plans To Distribute EUR 398 Mln Aer Lingus Proceeds To Shareholders
Ryanair Plans To Distribute EUR 398 Mln Aer Lingus Proceeds To 
Shareholders
RTT News (United States)
September 24, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 186 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) Thursday briefed shareholders on the continuing success of its 
"Always Getting Better" or AGB customer experience programme, which has enabled Ryanair to raise its full year 
traffic forecast to 104 million customers from its previous 103 million customers, and its profit guidance by 25% to 
1.2 billion euros.
Ryanair briefed shareholders on further AGB improvements later this year, including new primary airports in 
Amsterdam, Cologne, and Copenhagen, a new personalised website with advanced features, an improved mobile 
app, new cabin interiors, crew uniforms and improved inflight menus.
Ryanair plans to distribute the proceeds of 398 million euros from the sale of Ryanair's 29.8% stake in Aer Lingus, 
to its shareholders via a 'B' Share programme which will be concluded, subject to EGM approval, before December. 
This will bring the total funds returned by Ryanair to shareholders this year to 800 million euros and in excess of 3.3 
billion euros since 2008.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to open new base at Milan Malpensa Airport
Ryanair to open new base at Milan Malpensa Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 22, 2015 Tuesday 8:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 174 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced that it will open a new base at Milan Malpensa Airport, the company's 73rd base 
in total and 15th in Italy, on December 1, 2015.
Body
From 1st December, Ryanair's new Milan Malpensa base will deliver: 1 based aircraft ($100m investment); 4 routes 
to Bucharest, Comiso, London Stansted & Seville; 28 weekly flights; 450,000 customers p.a.; and support 450 "on-
site" jobs at Milan Malpensa Airport. Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, David O'Brien said: "Ryanair is pleased to 
announce a new Milan Malpensa base, opening in December, our 15th base in Italy, initially with one based aircraft 
and 4 routes to London Stansted, Comiso, Bucharest and Seville, which will deliver 450,000 customers p.a. and 
support 450 jobs at Milan Malpensa Airport. "As Italy's No 1 airline, we are pleased to add another key primary 
airport to what is already Europe's largest route network, as we continue to connect Italy with Europe's major 
centres of business. We will continue to operate and grow at Milan Bergamo Airport and as demonstrated by the 
success of our dual airport strategies in Brussels, Glasgow and Rome, Ryanair will remain the ideal choice for both 
business and leisure customers."
Load-Date: September 28, 2015
End of Document
Market Talk
Market Talk
Sunday Business Post
September 20, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 752 words
Body
When it comes to wielding sticks with banks to change policy, many have tried to clobber them, but few have found 
themselves on the winning side. Minister for Finance Michael Noonan was on the losing side again last week, after 
waging a summer-long campaign to drive down the cost of standard variable interest rates.
The last man to attempt to tackle the banks was former financial regulator Matthew Elderfield. With the mortgage 
arrears crisis at its peak the then regulator threatened to impose higher capital levels unless the banks implemented 
credible solutions. It has taken several more years to get the banks on top of that crisis. And still the most preferred 
treatment option for those in arrears is to stretch out the term of their loans - hardly a long-term viable option.
Noonan's stick to the banks was a    penal   increase in the deposit levy and the prospect of legislation to give the 
Central Bank powers to regulate interest rates.
Neither Elderfield nor Noonan have had a great hand when it comes to bending the banks to their will.
Had Elderfield imposed higher capital levels, it would have effectively choked off their recovery at the worst possible 
time. And the problem for Noonan is that while the banks have recovered, he has a different problem: he is still 
trying to flog them to investors.
Jacking up the levy, which costs the banking sector EUR 150 million a year, would have simply meant it would be 
passed on to depositors, while going the nuclear option of allowing the Central Bank to (reluctantly on its part) 
decide rates would be a true draconian measure, particularly as the world knows AIB is already being lined up for 
sale.
AIB has so far been the only lender to comply with Noonan's demands that variable rates come down for all 
customers, and, on the back of the three cuts it has announced to its standard variable rate, its share of mortgage 
lending has surged. That perhaps will spur its rivals into action on pricing. And that is about the best Noonan can 
hope for from his battle with the banks.
Market Talk
.....
**Are Ryanair shareholders in for a treat?**
Will Ryanair's new friendly, customer-centric image extend to better treats for shareholders at its annual general 
meeting? Shareholders have been used to frugal offerings pre and post meetings, which are usually held very early 
in the morning at Dublin Airport.
In reality, that is all its investors have to complain about at the airline. It has been a phenomenally successful couple 
of years, with profits jumping and bundles of cash being paid out through dividends and share buy backs. Thanks to 
lower oil prices, better fares and more passengers, Ryanair hiked its profit guidance for the financial year, which 
ends next March, to EUR 1.22 billion. To put that number in context, Ryanair's net profits are not far below the 
entire amount of revenue Aer Lingus generates in a year.
The only things investors can complain about are the coffee and biscuits. Even those may get better!
.....
**Watsa rides to FBD's rescue**
Prem Watsa, the Canadian billionaire, has come to the rescue of another troubled Irish financial company, thanks to 
his decision to take up a EUR 70 million convertible bond issued by FBD.
We've reported extensively on the difficulties of FBD this year, from rising losses, management overhaul and an 
insurance industry going through a period of hefty compensation claims.
FBD is selling off its hotel joint venture, slashing costs and raising capital to meet new European rules for insurers 
that come into effect in January and deal with its own legacy issues.
But Watsa, who was one of the handful of international investors who saved Bank of Ireland from state ownership in 
2011, isn't doing this because he's a friend of distressed Irish companies.
The bond deal, which requires the approval of investors, comes with a coupon of 7 per cent. That's an annual 
payment of nearly EUR 5 million until it converts into equity.
Shares in FBD rose sharply on the back of the deal, although they are well off where they started the year, and the 
insurer called Watsa's decision a    significant vote of confidence in FBD and in our future success  .
The deal also raises the question as to why FBD, which has a strong anchor investor in its founding shareholder - 
Farmers Business Development - and a supportive Irish Farmers Association, which signalled it would invest in a 
bond transaction, didn't go straight out and do a rights issue to raise cash.
Perhaps we'll find out the answer to that question from FBD soon.
Load-Date: September 21, 2015
End of Document
Alitalia CEO Resigns Just Months Into Restructuring Job
Alitalia CEO Resigns Just Months Into Restructuring Job
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 18, 2015
Copyright 2015 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 407 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) - Fri, Sep 18, 2015 Silvano Cassano, chief executive 
of Alitalia, has resigned with immediate effect after less than a year in the job. Alitalia last year picked Cassano as 
CEO of the new company formed when Etihad agreed to buy a 49 percent stake in the Italian airline as part of a 
EURâ‚¬1.76 billion (USD$2 billion) rescue plan. Cassano, 58, is leaving for personal reasons and his duties will be 
shared between other executives until a replacement is found, Alitalia said, with a spokesman adding that 
Cassano's departure was unrelated to the airline's financial performance. 
Hours after announcing Cassano's departure, Alitalia reported a net loss of EURâ‚¬130 million (USD$148 million) in 
the first half of 2015, which it said was better than it had budgeted for. It said the loss had increased by EURâ‚¬30 
million in the second quarter from the first and had been affected by a fire in May at Rome's Fiumicino airport, which 
had cost it EURâ‚¬80 million. Alitalia has been loss-making for years but after the tie-up with Etihad it forecast a 
return to profitability by 2017, a target it confirmed on Friday. However, a change at the helm so early into its latest 
restructuring does not bode well for the company's recovery path, said Andrea Giuricin, a transport analyst at 
Milan's Bicocca university. "The airline has done poorly in the first three months of the year, which are usually the 
most difficult, and the second and third quarter are also likely to have been very weak after Vueling, Ryanair and 
easyJet have added a number of flights from Rome's Fiumicino airport," he said before the first-half results were 
released. Low-cost airlines have added more than 200 weekly flights from Fiumicino during the summer season, he 
added. The tie-up with Etihad is expected to bring Alitalia money to invest in more profitable long-haul routes and 
make it less reliant on domestic and regional services, where it has struggled to compete against budget carriers 
and high-speed trains. Reuters
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2015 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 28, 2015
Alitalia CEO Resigns Just Months Into Restructuring Job
End of Document
EU court rules carriers are liable for technical delays to flights Airlines
EU court rules carriers are liable for technical delays to flights; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
September 18, 2015 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 407 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger in London and Duncan Robinson in Brussels
Body
Airlines could have to pay millions in compensation to passengers after the European Court of Justice ruled that 
carriers are liable if a flight is delayed due to technical problems.
KLM, the Dutch airline that is part of the Air France-KLM group, yesterday lost its long-running battle in the 
European courts with a passenger who suffered a 29-hour delay on a flight from Ecuador to the Netherlands 
because of technical difficulties with the aircraft.
The case has been closely watched by airlines across Europe, some of which were resisting compensation in 
similar circumstances until the ruling.
AirHelp, a compensation claims firm, estimated the ECJ ruling could lead to calls for some £860m in flight disruption 
payments to passengers.
Under European law, passengers are allowed to claim compensation of up to EUR600 if their flight is delayed for 
three hours or more - as long as the delay was not caused by extraordinary circumstances. The European Court of 
Justice ruled yesterday that unforeseen technical problems do not in general count as exceptional.
Unexpected technical problems are part of being an airline, argued the judges in Luxembourg, and should not been 
seen as exceptional - even if, as happened in KLM's case in Ecuador, new parts had to be flown in from 9,500km 
away.
EU court rules carriers are liable for technical delays to flights Airlines
KLM said the ECJ's "statement has ensured clarity, for travellers as well as airlines, regarding the definition of a 
technical defect as an exceptional circumstance".
Some technical faults are considered "exceptional circumstances", but only if they stem from issues such as 
sabotage or terrorism, according to the ECJ.
Other airlines privately said the ruling could make carriers liable for technical problems that could not be foreseen 
and were not part of the ordinary operation of an aircraft - for example, when the fault lay with the manufacturer of a 
part.
"It is another case of where we will be the last resort insurance," said one airline. "It makes airlines responsible for 
all technical issues."
An analysis by Which?, the consumer rights publication, recently found more than 9,000 flights in the UK are 
delayed for three hours or more.
Ryanair, the Irish low-cost carrier which last month lost a court battle to impose a two-year limit on compensation 
claims, noted the case and said that "since less than half of 1 per cent of Ryanair flights are delayed by over three 
hours, this ruling will have less effect on Ryanair than any other airline".
Load-Date: September 17, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair targets quarter of European traffic within decade Ryanair targets...
Ryanair targets quarter of European traffic within decade; Ryanair targets...
Business World (Digest)
September 17, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 687 words
Highlight: Ryanair expects to be operating one in every four European short-haul flights within the next eight to 10 
years, driven by expansion in countries such as Germany as some of its rivals retreat, its chief executive said.
Body
Ryanair expects to be operating one in every four European short-haul flights within the next eight to 10 years, 
driven by expansion in countries such as Germany as some of its rivals retreat, its chief executive said.
The Irish carrier, which has around 380 Boeing planes on order, has a market share of about 14 percent in Europe, 
serving about 100 million passengers a year and aims to increase that to 160 million passengers by about 2024.
"We're going to grow across all the European markets. We'll go to a 25 percent market share over the next eight to 
10 years," Michael O'Leary said in an interview on the sidelines of the FVW travel conference in Essen, Germany.
Germany, Europe's biggest economy and largest travel market, will play a big part in reaching that target. The 
airline hopes to increase its market share in the country to 20 percent from 5 percent over the next five years. 
Expansion in Germany is a key test of hitting the 25 percent market share target, Merrion Stockbrokers' analyst 
David Holohan said. "If they can crack Germany then it's doable," Holohan said. "Given the size of the fleet they'll 
be running, that should be readily achievable in 10 years." Other analysts warn it will not be easy for Ryanair to 
expand in Germany, especially given its policy of avoiding expensive airports such as Frankfurt and Munich, 
Germany's largest. "I therefore think it's unlikely Ryanair will quickly reach such a strong position in Germany as it 
has in Britain," said aviation expert Gerald Wissel from Airborne Consulting. He pointed to Air Berlin, which has 
posted operating losses in four of the last five years, as an example of how tough competition in Germany is. 
Ryanair, which also plans to grow in Scandinavia, Italy, and Spain, this month started its first domestic route in 
Germany since 2011, a five-times-a day hop between the cities of Cologne and Berlin. O'Leary said bookings were 
"phenomenal" thanks in part to an offer for fares as low as 10 euros, while Business Plus tickets were selling well. 
He said growth in Germany would mainly be through routes to and from the country, rather than domestic services. 
Airports were approaching Ryanair, he added, asking the carrier to set up routes as others such as Air Berlin cut 
back on capacity. His new emphasis on customer service, an expanding route network and the carrier's low prices 
Ryanair targets quarter of European traffic within decade Ryanair targets...
led Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers to raise its full-year profit forecast by 25 percent. Analysts expect 
low-cost carriers such as Ryanair, easyJet , Wizz and Vueling to continue to take share from established carriers 
such as Lufthansa and Air-France-KLM which are battling to reduce costs so they too can compete on price. In the 
short-term, the low-cost carriers are growing quickly. UBS analysts published in a note this month data showing 
planned capacity growth for the fourth quarter of 2015, with Ryanair increasing seats by 12.5 percent, easyJet by 
about 9 percent and Wizz by about 23 percent. That compares with a predicted a drop of 2 percent for Air France, 
growth of under 1 percent for Lufthansa and 7 percent for IAG, which also owns Vueling, alongside British Airways 
and Iberia. "If easyJet happens to be in a market we enter, they get blown up, if British Airways, Lufthansa are in a 
market that we happen to enter, they get blown up. They're not able to compete with us on price," O'Leary said, 
highlighting easyJet's decision to cut the number of flights it operates from Italy's busiest airport Rome Fiumicino. 
Bolstered by the growing passenger numbers and the sale of its stake in Aer Lingus to IAG, Ryanair is considering 
another share buyback, and a special dividend, following a 400 million euros buyback earlier this year. "There's a 
strong likelihood we'll do another share buyback," O'Leary said. "If we were to do another 400 million, that would be 
800 million this year alone in buybacks and then next year probably back into special dividend territory." The 
buyback would likely be on the agenda at the carrier's annual shareholder meeting on Sept. 24, O'Leary said. 
(Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 22, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair will be operating one in every four European short-haul flights
Ryanair will be operating one in every four European short-haul flights
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 17, 2015
Copyright 2015 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 445 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) - Thu, Sep 17, 2015 Ryanair expects to be operating 
one in every four European short-haul flights within the next eight to 10 years, driven by expansion in countries 
such as Germany as some of its rivals retreat. The Irish carrier, which has around 380 planes on order, has a 
market share of about 14 percent in Europe, serving about 100 million passengers a year and aims to increase that 
to 160 million passengers by about 2024. "We're going to grow across all the European markets. We'll go to a 25 
percent market share over the next eight to 10 years," Michael O'Leary said in an interview on the sidelines of the 
FVW travel conference in Essen. 
Germany, Europe's biggest economy and largest travel market, will play a big part in reaching that target. The 
airline hopes to increase its market share in the country to 20 percent from 5 percent over the next five years. 
Expansion in Germany is a key test of hitting the 25 percent market share target, Merrion Stockbrokers' analyst 
David Holohan said. "If they can crack Germany then it's doable," Holohan said. "Given the size of the fleet they'll 
be running, that should be readily achievable in 10 years." Other analysts warn it will not be easy for Ryanair to 
expand in Germany, especially given its policy of avoiding expensive airports such as Frankfurt and Munich, 
Germany's largest. "I therefore think it's unlikely Ryanair will quickly reach such a strong position in Germany as it 
has in Britain," said Gerald Wissel from Airborne Consulting. He pointed to Air Berlin, which has posted operating 
losses in four of the last five years, as an example of how tough competition in Germany is. Ryanair, which also 
plans to grow in Scandinavia, Italy and Spain, this month started its first domestic route in Germany since 2011, 
five-times-a day between Cologne and Berlin. O'Leary said bookings were "phenomenal" thanks in part to an offer 
for fares from EURâ‚¬10, while Business Plus tickets were selling well. He said growth in Germany would mainly be 
through routes to and from the country, rather than domestic services. Airports were approaching Ryanair, he 
added, asking the carrier to set up routes as others such as Air Berlin cut back on capacity. Reuters
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2015 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Ryanair will be operating one in every four European short-haul flights
Load-Date: September 28, 2015
End of Document
Ryanairâ€™s new emphasis on customer service
Ryanairâ€™s new emphasis on customer service
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 17, 2015
Copyright 2015 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 379 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) - Thu, Sep 17, 2015 Ryanairâ€™s new emphasis on 
customer service, an expanding route network and the carrier's low prices led Ryanair to raise its full-year profit 
forecast by 25 percent. Analysts expect low-cost carriers such as Ryanair, easyJet, Wizz and Vueling to continue to 
take share from established carriers such as Lufthansa and Air-France-KLM which are reducing costs so they too 
can compete on price. In the short-term, the low-cost carriers are growing quickly. 
UBS analysts published in a note this month data showing planned capacity growth for the fourth quarter of 2015, 
with Ryanair increasing seats by 12.5 percent, easyJet by about 9 percent and Wizz by about 23 percent. That 
compares with a predicted drop of 2 percent for Air France, growth of under 1 percent for Lufthansa and 7 percent 
for IAG, which also owns Vueling, alongside British Airways and Iberia. "If easyJet happens to be in a market we 
enter, they get blown up, if British Airways, Lufthansa are in a market that we happen to enter, they get blown up. 
They're not able to compete with us on price," O'Leary said, highlighting easyJet's decision to cut the number of 
flights it operates from Italy's busiest airport Rome Fiumicino. Bolstered by the growing passenger numbers and the 
sale of its stake in Aer Lingus to IAG, Ryanair is considering another share buyback, and a special dividend, 
following a EURâ‚¬400 million (USD$453 million) buyback earlier this year. "There's a strong likelihood we'll do 
another share buyback," O'Leary said. "If we were to do another EURâ‚¬400 million, that would be EURâ‚¬800 
million this year alone in buybacks and then next year probably back into special dividend territory." The buyback 
would likely be on the agenda at the carrier's annual shareholder meeting on September 24, O'Leary said. Reuters
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2015 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 28, 2015
End of Document
New low-cost African airlines hope to undercut larger carriers
New low-cost African airlines hope to undercut larger carriers
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 16, 2015
Copyright 2015 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 488 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) - Wed, Sep 16, 2015 Before Fastjet launched low-
cost flights between Harare and Dar es Salaam last year, Zimbabwean businessman Jonathan Jabangwe had to 
brave a three day bus journey to meet his clients in Tanzania. Fastjet is among a wave of low-cost airlines 
launching or expanding operations in Africa as they seek to capture middle-income people who are tired of 
dangerous road journeys but cannot afford major international carriers. The new airlines hope to undercut larger 
carriers by offering no frills services, replicating the model used by European airlines such as easyJet and Ryanair. 
Where low-cost routes have launched in Africa, prices have dropped by around 40 percent and passenger numbers 
have risen by almost half, a study by consultants Intervistas showed. "It makes a big difference to me. The roads 
are very slow and you take your life into your own hands," Jabangwe said as he waited to catch a flight from 
Johannesburg. "Why aren't these flights all over Africa? With the global economic situation, every dollar counts." 
Africa's aviation industry is growing at 4.7 percent, faster than any other region. Passenger numbers are expected 
to double to 300 million in the next two decades, according to IATA. Growth is, however, off a very low base and 
widespread expansion of low-cost aviation is hampered by government protectionism, high taxes and stringent 
regulation. An open skies agreement, similar to the EU pact agreed in the 1990s that led to a boom in low-cost air 
travel, was signed 28 years ago but has never been fully implemented. Low-cost airlines say governments block 
competitors from flying international routes to protect state-owned airlines such as Kenya Airways, South African 
Airways and Ethiopian Airlines. African countries continue to champion national airlines, despite nearly all ventures 
resulting in losses or bankruptcy. South African has been subject to several government rescues in recent years. 
Kenya Air posted record losses this year and may need a $500 million - USD$600 million bailout, its government 
said this month. Nigeria is considering re-launching a state airline and tiny Djibouti said this month it would revamp 
its previously bankrupt national carrier. The new Air Djibouti will be managed by Iron Maiden rock singer Bruce 
Dickinson. If governments were more pro-competition and reforms were imposed it could add USD$1.3 billion a 
year in revenue to African economies and create 155,000 jobs, IATA says. Reuters
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2015 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
New low-cost African airlines hope to undercut larger carriers
Load-Date: September 28, 2015
End of Document
Dublin concern over Brexit damage to N Ireland deal EU membership
Dublin concern over Brexit damage to N Ireland deal; EU membership
Financial Times (London, England)
September 14, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 399 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
As it struggles to make its argument heard in the din of the UK debate on membership of the EU, the Irish 
government is increasingly taking its case to British audiences.
In two high-profile recent speeches - in Cambridge and London - Enda Kenny, the Irish Taoiseach (prime minister), 
and Charlie Flanagan, the foreign minister - amplified Irish concerns about a British exit from the EU for bilateral 
relations, trade, and, in particular, the fragile post-conflict political settlement in Northern Ireland.
The increasingly assertive Irish stance has been joined by one of Ireland's - and the UK's - most prominent 
businessmen. Michael O'Leary , chief executive of Ryanair, slammed the call by David Cameron, the prime 
minister, for UK business leaders not to speak out in favour of EU membership while he renegotiates the UK's 
terms.
"It is beholden on all businesses to be active in this campaign," Mr O'Leary told the British-Irish Chamber of 
Commerce. He urged Irish businesses with operations in the UK to "go out and in a nice, polite Irish way to 
campaign for the UK to remain in the EU".
The step up in activity reflects concern in Dublin that two events - the migrant crisis in the EU and the prospect that 
the Labour party would be more anti-EU under the leadership of Jeremy Corbyn - could strengthen the No camp in 
the UK, just when Irish officials were becoming optimistic that the Yes campaign was gaining momentum.
Dublin concern over Brexit damage to N Ireland deal EU membership
"We have resolved, despite being respectful of the democratic process here, to make our voices heard," Mr 
Flanagan told an audience at Chatham House last week. "We in Ireland can't steer the debate along the way, but, 
as Britain's great friend and partner within the EU, we will do all we can to help you remain part of it."
Mr Kenny told the British-Irish Association annual meeting in Cambridge that, given the economic and political 
turmoil in Europe and on its borders, now was not the time for the EU "to lose one of its foremost members".
One concern is trade. Some EUR1bn a week in imports and exports cross the Irish Sea; the UK is the biggest 
export market for indigenous Irish companies in the food and drink sector.
But Irish officials also emphasise the benefits of the UK's EU membership for Northern Ireland, not just 
economically but in the wider sense of the peace process there, is only now starting to be appreciated and 
understood in London and Belfast.
Load-Date: September 13, 2015
End of Document
Stronger economy bolsters fortunes of Iseq firms
Stronger economy bolsters fortunes of Iseq firms
Sunday Business Post
September 13, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: PERSONAL FINANCE
Length: 1380 words
Body
'In the short run,   according to Ben Graham, the grandfather of value investing,    the market is a voting machine, 
but in the long run it is a weighing machine.  
At no point in the recent past was the truth of that maxim more pronounced than in the Iseq index of Irish shares 
this summer.
The companies on the Iseq - just like the companies of the rest of the world - saw their share prices swing wildly 
through the summer as pressures from first Greece and then China caused investors to panic.
On the day known globally as Black Monday - August 24 - when the entire world's markets plummeted on news of 
China's stock market difficulties, the Iseq closed down 5.05 per cent - its worst performance in five years.
And yet, as the summer wore on, those same companies that had been watching their share prices whipsaw during 
the summer were announcing often robust half-year and full-year financial results that highlighted the regular 
deviation between balance sheets and share prices.
For example, CRH, the biggest company on the Iseq, announced in August that its revenue had grown by 13 per 
cent to EUR 9.4 billion in the six months to the end of June, and that its pre-tax profits were up by EUR 2 million to 
EUR 53 million. It came on the back of two enormous billion dollar transactions, one of the £5 billion purchase of 
some assets from Lafarge Tarmac, the other of the buyout of Los Angeles-based CR Laurence (CRL), one of the 
biggest glazing distributors in North America.
In July, Diageo, the maker of Guinness, had announced full year results that showed that its sales had risen by 5 
per cent to £10.8 billion and that its profits for the year were up 3 per cent to £2.8 billion.
Recruitment company CPL, meanwhile, saw its gross profits jump from EUR 54.6 million to EUR 58.7 million, driven 
by revenue growth of 7 per cent - from EUR 369.2 million to EUR 393.6 million over the course of the year.
Stronger economy bolsters fortunes of Iseq firms
And last week, in an unplanned trading update, Ryanair amended its profits forecast upwards from EUR 970 million 
to an upper range of EUR 1.22 billion in the year ending in March, leading to a massive surge in trading in the 
company's shares - which added over EUR 1.6 billion to the airline's market capitalisation.
**Helped by the economy**
For Robert Eason, head of research at Goodbody Stockbrokers, those financial results are indicative of a broader 
improvement in the Irish economy - an improvement underlined by the announcement last week that the economy 
grew by just under 2 per cent in the second quarter of this year, according to the latest CSO figures.
   They're strong figures and that's helping a lot of the Iseq companies,   he said.
   The majority would have some exposure to the Irish economy. And the second economy that the Irish companies 
would have most exposure to would be the UK, and that has been relatively strong lately. The economic backdrop 
of those two most important economies is the biggest driver.  
Several companies have benefited from the return of the consumer in the Irish economy, he said, and he pointed to 
the likes of ferry company ICG - which saw its revenue for the year to the end of June rise by 9.5 per cent to EUR 
143.1 million, and its pre tax profits rise from EUR 2.7 million to EUR 14.9 million.
For David Holohan of Merrion Stockbrokers, that strong reporting season was also driven by the fruits of many of 
those companies having carefully grown business outside Ireland.
   A lot of these companies would have sought to diversify their exposure to different markets and this has really 
started to pay off as the investment they've made has started to produce results,   he said.
He pointed to companies such as Kingspan making investments in North America with the likes of the building 
products division of Canadian construction firm Vicwest, or the purchase of Belgian company Joris Ide.
   There's also been a general recovery in European markets, and they've got a favourable foreign exchange rate - 
and a lot of Irish companies have significant US operations, so they'll benefit from a weaker euro,   Holohan said.
That said, these conditions will not last forever, he warned.
   These things do move in both directions. It just happens that there are a lot of positive points moving in Irish 
corporates' favour right now,   he said.    Some will reverse in time. It's unlikely to happen all at one point, but 
they're definitely benefiting from a convergence of tailwinds.  
**Large companies dominate**
For Holohan, investing in the Iseq is no longer synonymous with investing in Ireland. And, as a direct investment in 
an index of companies, it's not without its risks.
   The Iseq has been one of the strongest performing markets globally,   he said.    It was the real standout, while 
the rest of the world came apart at the seams.  
However, he said, that was down to the frankly unbalanced weighting of companies on the Irish stock exchange, 
thanks to a combination of factors that included various mergers, acquisitions and delistings.
What's left is an exchange dominated by the movements of half a dozen very large companies.
   If you look at the construction of the Iseq, it's heavily weighted to CRH, which makes up 25 per cent of it, Bank of 
Ireland, with 10.7 per cent, Smurfit with 7 per cent, Ryanair with 30 per cent and Kerry with 11 per cent,   he said.
   So if they're doing well, it propels the index.  
Stronger economy bolsters fortunes of Iseq firms
For stock-pickers, though, such solid recent economic growth means they can look past the unbalanced index and 
the market swings to find a clutch of companies with sound fundamentals in an economy that - for the time being at 
least - is on a solid growth trajectory.
A research report Goodbody issued in early August projected 4 per cent growth in the Irish economy in 2016 and 
2017, with 5.5 per cent growth this year.
   Unlike the mid-2000s, this growth is broad-based and sustainable,   the report states.
In order to take advantage of such growth, it recommended several of those stocks. CPL, ICG and Dalata, the 
report said, were well positioned to capitalised on the growth in the consumer sector - CPL on labour recruitment, 
Dalata on a growth in the hotel sector, and ICG on ferry traffic between Britain and Ireland coupled with a lower fuel 
bill thanks to the current oil environment.
Meanwhile, Grafton Group is    the only significant way to play the recovery in the Irish construction sector  , with an 
alternative being through the Reits, while Bank of Ireland, it said, was the    purest large-cap way to play the 
recovery in the Irish economy  .
Not every company is booming, however.
Most of the Iseq's oil and exploration stocks have struggled thanks to the wider problems with the oil price, which 
slipped below $40 a barrel recently.    They're largely powerless in that,   Holohan said, and have to wait until that 
price regularises itself.
Meanwhile,    one of the least optimistic companies was Grafton - they're just seeing more of a challenge lately, and 
they're getting more competition for their their merchanting business, and their operations in Belgium are quite 
challenged  , according to Holohan.
Even more challenged was insurance company FBD, whose difficulties have been well documented. Last month, it 
announced a EUR 96 million pre-tax loss for the first half of the year.
It is also rumoured to have been considering shelving a potentially EUR 100 million bond issue due to tricky market 
conditions.
John Looby of Kleinwort Benson Investors agreed that Ireland's economy has lifted a lot of boats.
   Whatever about the global turmoil and the debates about the US Federal Reserve and what they might do or 
might not do, and then China, and Greece before it - none of that seems to be impacting on the extraordinary and 
sustaining recovery in the domestic recovery here,   he said.
However, the key for investors is to look beyond Ireland - much like many of the corporates on the Iseq have done. 
Logic, he said, dictated that better investment opportunities were likely to lie elsewhere.
   Think about opportunities that exist globally. Why get narrowed down into a perspective like just the Irish market?   
he asked.
   Investors should be reminding themselves that the best companies and investment opportunities in the world 
aren't always likely to be listed on the Iseq.  
Load-Date: September 14, 2015
End of Document
Stock take: market week
Stock take: market week
Sunday Business Post
September 13, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 463 words
Body
Shareholders flying high as Ryanair announces new figures
Low fares airline Ryanair last week surprised the markets by raising its profit forecasts for the year by a full 25 per 
cent from an upper range of EUR 970 million to potentially EUR 1.2 billion. It triggered a huge jump in trading in the 
shares, which saw the company's share price rise from about EUR 75 to EUR 81 by the end of the week - an all-
time high for the company.
   We do not expect these favourable conditions will persist, and we would urge shareholders and analysts to avoid 
irrational exuberance.  
*Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive*
.....
**Green Reit says golden period for commercial property may be over**
Dublin's office market is at risk of becoming over-supplied with properties, Green Reit's chief executive Pat Gunne 
said last week, while executive chairman Stephen Vernon concurred, saying that the golden period of returns for 
commercial property was probably over.
Green Reit has a large proportion of its portfolio in commercial property and the firm said last week that it had 
delivered a total return of 24.4 per cent in 2015. It reported that the 24 properties in that portfolio were worth just a 
shade under a billion euro, at EUR 968.3 million, at the end of June.
.....
**Profits rise at Next, but retailer warns of price increases ahead**
Stock take: market week
Fashion outlet Next saw its pretax profits increase by 7.1 per cent to £347 million (EUR 474 million) in the half-year 
to the end of July, which was higher than analysts expected.
It triggered a bump in the company's share price, which went from 7,670 pence at the start of the week to a high of 
7,875 at one point.
Meanwhile, the company said it could absorb Britain's living wage increase with a rise in its prices.
.....
**Wetherspoons still focused on increasing pub numbers**
Fashion outlet Next saw its pretax profits increase by 7.1 per cent to £347 million (EUR 474 million) in the half-year 
to the end of July, which was higher than analysts expected.
It triggered a bump in the company's share price, which went from 7,670 pence at the start of the week to a high of 
7,875 at one point.
Meanwhile, the company said it could absorb Britain's living wage increase with a rise in its prices.
.....
**Bookseller Barnes & Noble continues to struggle**
Losses at giant American bookseller Barnes and Noble grew in the quarter to the end of August. Figures were down 
1.5 per cent, the bookseller revealed, to $1.2 billion, compared to the previous quarterly figures. That produced a 
total loss of $6 million for the company, a drop of $36 million from the previous year.
It triggered a massive sell-off of the company's shares, and they closed at $11.80 on Wednesday, the day of the 
results. That was more than 27 per cent lower than they had started the day.
Load-Date: September 14, 2015
End of Document
Arconics clinches major deal with Qatar Airways
Arconics clinches major deal with Qatar Airways
Sunday Business Post
September 13, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: SMALL BUSINESS
Length: 243 words
Body
Company: Arconics
**Done deal:**ten-year Qatar Airways deal
**The clincher:**   The rapid adoption by airlines of mobile devices and the impending arrival of global broadband 
connectivity creates extraordinary opportunities to improve safety and compliance.   - **Niall O'Sullivan**, chief 
executive, Arconics
.....
Document management software developed by an Irish company will be used by Qatar Airways across its fleet of 
166 aircraft, flying to 152 destinations on six continents.
The ten-year deal with Qatar's national carrier will see Arconics' AeroDocs platform deployed across all operations, 
handling paperwork for flight and ground operations, engineering, inflight services and cargo.
   The airline is very conscious that rapid expansion requires rigorous precision in how we manage growth,   said 
Akbar Al Baker, group chief executive, Qatar Airways.
   Effective communication and secure data exchanges are crucial when it comes to safeguarding our global 
operations.  
The airline's operational teams will begin training to use Arconics AeroDocs system later this year, and the system 
is expected to go live in 2016.
Qatar Airways flies 166 Boeing and Airbus aircraft to 152 destinations on six continents. Arconics' other clients 
include Cathay Pacific, Ryanair, Aer Lingus, and Philippine Airlines.
Arconics clinches major deal with Qatar Airways
The company develops enterprise software and mobile applications for aircraft operators. It is headquartered in 
Dublin, with an office in Sydney, Australia.
Load-Date: September 14, 2015
End of Document
Budget airlines warmed by a continental shift Travel & leisure: Revenue revival
Budget airlines warmed by a continental shift; Travel & leisure: Revenue 
revival
Financial Times (London, England)
September 12, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 18
Length: 760 words
Byline: Nathalie Thomas and Michael Pooler
Highlight: Strong European demand coupled with falling costs have bolstered short-haul profits
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary can always be relied on for a touch of drama.
Just five months after he warned that a bitter price war was shaping up in Europe's skies, the prospects for his 
Dublin-based airline and its low-cost competitors in the short-haul aviation market are suddenly looking up.
Ryanair this week increased its full-year profit guidance by 25 per cent to a range of EUR1.12bn-EUR1.23bn on the 
back of a bumper summer. The move followed a similar one by rival easyJet to upgrade its pre-tax profit guidance 
for the year ending this month to £675m-£700m from £620m-£660m. IAG, which owns British Airways and Iberia, is 
also expected to have benefited on short-haul European routes, analysts said.
Analysts suggest the fiercely competitive European aviation industry is enjoying something of a "sweet spot", a 
sharp change from the start of the year when a cautious mood prevailed among aviation executives. European 
consumers are shrugging off concerns over the direction of the global economy and spending money on trips 
abroad, at a time when the airline industry is also benefiting from low fuel prices.
This is especially the case in the UK, where a strong pound is "encouraging people to holiday abroad," says Oliver 
Sleath, airlines analyst at Barclays.
Budget airlines warmed by a continental shift Travel & leisure: Revenue revival
Buoyant demand from sun-seeking holidaymakers has allowed airlines to keep fares higher than originally 
anticipated. That allows the benefit of cheaper oil to go straight to the bottom line rather than being used to keep 
ticket prices low, according to analysts.
"We are in an unusual period where you have had a big input cost decline and the economy has remained robust," 
says Mr Sleath.
Ryanair's unscheduled trading update was a further milestone in the airline's recovery from two profit warnings in 
the autumn of 2013. Back then its practice of flying to so-called "secondary" airports, far from town centres, and its 
questionable record on customer service were seen as the source of its trouble. The company credits a subsequent 
overhaul of its business model for a revival of its fortunes.
Shares in the airline have gained 158 per cent since November 2013, as it launched flights to more central airports, 
relaxed its strict baggage policy and lowered fees. "Approximately 50 per cent from the [recent] uptick is from [these 
changes]," says Neil Sorahan, Ryanair's finance director.
In the case of easyJet , the profit upgrade was all the more unexpected. The airline had in May issued a profit 
warning, after French air traffic control strikes forced it to cancel more than 600 flights. The company put a strong 
summer showing largely down to a strong pound - 40 per cent of easyJet customers are from the UK - and said that 
digital products, such as a mobile boarding pass that directs passengers to airport gates, have bolstered brand 
loyalty.
Airlines have also benefited from a bout of self-restraint, as most groups avoided the temptation to add additional 
flights in a bid to gain a bigger slice of the market. This helped to drive up load factors, which measures how many 
seats on a flight are occupied by passengers. In August, easyJet's load factor reached a record 94.4 per cent
Capacity across the industry rose about 4 per cent between June and August, which was "pretty consistent with 
previous years", says John Grant of aviation data group OAG.
How long these fair macroeconomic winds will last is not clear. With almost one-third of its tickets for the third 
quarter already booked, Ryanair expects a continuation.
As part of its overhaul, the airline has changed its booking model, putting cheap tickets on sale earlier, and some of 
the advanced booking may also be down to consumer confidence. Mr O'Leary has cautioned investors against 
"irrational exuberance" despite this week's profits upgrade. He warned that the "mother and father" of price wars 
could still break out this winter as rivals cut their own fares to defend market share.
Some in the industry see this as "scaremongering" from Ryanair and an attempt to frighten rivals into cutting 
capacity. For even if competition does heat up, analysts point out that several of the bigger airlines will soon enjoy 
an even greater benefit from lower crude prices. In Ryanair's case, 90 per cent of its fuel for its current financial 
year is hedged at $91 a barrel, but 70 per cent of its fuel needs for the following year have already been hedged at 
$66 a barrel - a 27 per cent reduction.
EasyJet meanwhile has hedged 80 per cent of its requirements for 2016 at $844 per metric tonne, against $878 this 
year.
Load-Date: September 11, 2015
End of Document
Miners come up gold for FTSE as London rallies
Miners come up gold for FTSE as London rallies
City A.M.
September 10, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 25
Length: 357 words
Body
ASIAN market gains helped the FTSE to rally yesterday for a third straight session - also boosted by encouraging 
corporate news from mining companies and financial firms.
The FTSE 100 index was up 1.4 per cent at 6,229.01 points at its close, still around 12.6 per cent off April's record 
high, after uncertainty over China's growth caused market turmoil in August.
The FTSE 350 mining sector index was up 3.5 per cent, extending the previous session's rise of 2.6 per cent.
The market ignored a report that British manufacturing output fell in July, since it makes an interest rate increase by 
the Bank of England less likely.
"I don't think this miss in manufacturing production is that much of a big surprise," said Fawad Razaqzada, technical 
analyst at Gain Capital.
The rally in mining shares followed a rebound by Chinese stocks, which reached a three-week high on hopes of 
further government stimulus. China is a major consumer of minerals.
Anglo American jumped 5.5 per cent, one of the biggest gains on the FTSE 100.
Its Anglo American Platinum (Amplats) unit sold labour-intensive South African mines to Sibanye Gold for 4.5bn 
rand (£213m) to focus on newer, mechanised mines.
"We feel this is a good result for Anglo and clearly shows that the management team at both Amplats and Anglo 
American are delivering on promises made," analysts at Investec said in a note.
Miners come up gold for FTSE as London rallies
Asset manager Hargreaves Lansdown was the top performer, rising almost seven per cent after reporting a surge in 
full-year assets, despite forecast-lagging profit and revenue.
Drugmaker GLAXOSMITHKLINE was the index's top loser, falling 1.2 per cent. The company and its partner, 
Theravance, said their inhaled medicine Breo failed to prolong life for patients with chronic respiratory disease in a 
clinical trial.
Airline EASYJET suffered, down 0.7 per cent after a conference call by competitor Ryanair. One trader said 
EASYJET's numbers looked lacklustre compared with Ryanair's.
Among small-cap stocks, Monitise shares plummeted 51.8 per cent to 2.80p. Elizabeth Buse, the chief executive of 
the British mobilebanking software company quit after just over a year in the post.
Load-Date: September 10, 2015
End of Document
Strong pound helps lift Ryanair profits Sterling effort
Strong pound helps lift Ryanair profits; Sterling effort
Financial Times (London, England)
September 10, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 17
Length: 192 words
Byline: Michael Pooler and Nathalie Thomas
Body
A combination of higher air fares and lower fuel costs, along with more Britons taking advantage of a strong pound 
to holiday in the Mediterranean, has pushed Ryanair to increase its profit forecast by a quarter, write Michael Pooler 
and Nathalie Thomas.
The budget airline said it was raising its net profit guidance to a range of EUR1.12bn-EUR1.23bn for the full year, 
up from EUR940m-EUR970m, after higher than expected numbers of passengers over summer.
Following two profit warnings in 2013, Ryanair has been overhauling its business model, reducing or stamping out 
unpopular fees and allowing passengers to take a second, small item of carry-on baggage on flights.
"Fares grew by over 2 per cent, when we had expected them to be flat," said Michael O'Leary , chief executive.
Strong trading from July and August continuing into September led the company to bring forward a shareholder 
update originally scheduled for an annual meeting this month.
As a result, Ryanair boosted a range of its performance predictions. Traffic was up 13 per cent in the first half of the 
year and the airline expects 104m passengers in 2016, up 1m on a previous forecast.
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
Strong pound helps lift Ryanair profits Sterling effort
End of Document
Ryanair 's profit guidance takes off
Ryanair's profit guidance takes off
City A.M.
September 10, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 128 words
Byline: CATHERINE NEILAN
Body
RYANAIR yesterday raised its full-year profit guidance by 25 per cent, as its bid to win over customers with an 
improved service took off.
The budget airline said full-year net profit would now come in between (EURO)1.175bn (£858m) and 
(EURO)1.225bn, up from previous estimates of (EURO)940m to (EURO)970m "due to stronger-than-expected peak 
summer traffic and prices.".
It directly attributed this to its "Always Getting Better" programme, claiming it was winning over "millions of new 
customers".
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary said: "We have been surprised by the strength of close-in bookings and fares this 
summer during which we delivered record 95 per cent load factors in both July and August while fares grew by over 
two per cent, when we had expected them to be flat."
Load-Date: September 10, 2015
End of Document
UK Market Notably Higher, Miners Gain
UK Market Notably Higher, Miners Gain
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 9, 2015 Wednesday 1:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 349 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - The UK market rallied on Wednesday, tracking firm cues from Asia and Wall Street 
overnight, as investors chose to ignore an unexpected fall in U.K. industrial and manufacturing output.  The Asian 
stocks rallied, tracking strong gains in the U.S. and European markets overnight, as positive European GDP data 
and Beijing's relentless efforts to prop up the stock market boosted investors' appetite for riskier assets.   In the 
U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. 
In the previous session, stocks rose sharply as investors returned from a holiday weekend. The Dow rallied 2.4 
percent, the Nasdaq advanced 2.7 percent and the S&P 500 climbed 2.5 percent.  The Euro Stoxx 50 index of 
eurozone bluechip stocks added 2.05 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. 
companies, rose 1.94 percent.   The FTSE 100 index climbed 1.9 percent.  Anglo American climbed 7.1 percent 
and Glencore added 5.1 percent. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto were gaining 5 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively.  
HSBC and Standard Chartered gained around 3 percent each.  Ryanair climbed around 7 percent after the Irish 
airline lifted its forecast for 2016.  Other markets in the region also were firmly in positive territory.  Data released by 
the Office for National Statistics showed that the U.K. industrial and manufacturing output dropped unexpectedly in 
July. Industrial output dropped 0.4 percent on a monthly basis, confounding expectations for a marginal growth of 
0.1 percent. Manufacturing output declined 0.8 percent, while economists had expected it to grow 0.2 percent.  UK 
visible trade deficit widened for a second straight month in July to its biggest level in a year, exceeding economists' 
expectations, figures from the Office for National Statistics showed. The deficit in the trade in goods rose to 11.082 
billion pounds from 8.507 billion pounds in June. Economists had forecast a 9.5 billion pounds shortfall.  Crude for 
October delivery rose $0.03 to $45.97 per barrel, while December gold dropped $0.6 to $1120.4 a troy ounce.      
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair hikes annual profit forecast by 25 pct after strong summer; Ryanair hikes a...
Ryanair hikes annual profit forecast by 25 pct after strong summer; Ryanair 
hikes a...
Business World (Digest)
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 271 words
Highlight: Ryanair hiked its annual profit forecast by 25 percent on Wednesday after its summer performance was 
boosted by bad weather in northern Europe and the strength of the British pound.
Body
Ryanair hiked its annual profit forecast by 25 percent on Wednesday after its summer performance was boosted by 
bad weather in northern Europe and the strength of the British pound.
The Irish airline, Europe's largest by passenger numbers, said it now expects net profit of between 1.18 billion 
euros and 1.23 billion in the 12 months through March 2016, up from an earlier forecast of 940 million to 970 
million.
The airline credited part of the growth to the success of its two-year old drive to improve customer service, but said 
poor weather in Britain and other northern European markets, the lower oil price and the strength of sterling were 
key factors.
"We've been surprised by the strength of close-in (late) bookings over the peak summer period," Chief Executive 
Michael O'Leary said in a video statement. "It has been a very benign pricing environment for airlines across 
Europe." Ryanair's main rival EasyJet last week raised its annual profit outlook after record demand for beach 
holidays and city breaks, saying profit growth would be up to 21 percent for the year to end September, compared 
with a previous forecast of up to 14 percent. Lufthansa, which Ryanair is targeting with a major expansion in 
Germany, said last week it had experienced its strongest summer ever, with business substantially better in July 
and August than expected. Ryanair said it still expected sustained fare wars across Europe this winter, but added 
that fares in the three months to the end of December would be flat, withdrawing an earlier forecast that they would 
fall by between 4 and 8 percent. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 14, 2015
Ryanair hikes annual profit forecast by 25 pct after strong summer; Ryanair hikes a...
End of Document
European Markets Follow Asia Higher
European Markets Follow Asia Higher
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 9, 2015 Wednesday 1:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 511 words
Body
       BRUSSELS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets jumped on Wednesday, tracking firm cues from Asia and Wall 
Street overnight, as investors chose to ignore an unexpected fall in U.K. industrial and manufacturing output.  The 
Asian stocks rallied, tracking strong gains in the U.S. and European markets overnight, as positive European GDP 
data and Beijing's relentless efforts to prop up the stock market boosted investors' appetite for riskier assets.   In the 
U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. 
In the previous session, stocks rose sharply as investors returned from a holiday weekend. The Dow rallied 2.4 
percent, the Nasdaq advanced 2.7 percent and the S&P 500 climbed 2.5 percent.  The Euro Stoxx 50 index of 
eurozone bluechip stocks added 2.2 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. 
companies, rose 2.4 percent.   The German DAX, the French CAC 40, the FTSE 100 index of the U.K. and 
Switzerland's SMI were gaining between 1.7 percent and 2.3 percent.  In Frankfurt, Daimler and BMW climbed 3.2 
percent each, and Volkswagen rose 2.7 percent. Morgan Stanley raised BMW to 'Overweight' from 'Equalweight.' 
Tire maker Continental was up 2.7 percent.  HeidelbergCement added 2.7 percent, and Deutsche Telekom gained 
around 2 percent.  Insurer Allianz and specialty chemicals firm Lanxess rose 1.8 percent each.  In Paris, hotel 
group Accor climbed around 5 percent, thus leading the gainers.  Renault jumped 4.5 percent and Peugeot added 
3.5 percent. Car parts maker Valeo rose around 4 percent.  LVMH and Airbus gained 3.4 percent and 3.2 percent, 
respectively.  In London, Anglo American climbed 7.1 percent and Glencore added 5.1 percent. BHP Billiton and 
Rio Tinto were gaining 5 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively.  HSBC and Standard Chartered gained around 3 
percent each.  Ryanair climbed around 7 percent after the Irish airline lifted its forecast for 2016.  Volvo gained 3.2 
percent in Stockholm, following a positive broker recommendation.  Swiss engineering firm ABB lowered its 
revenue growth target for 2015-2020, reflecting reduced macroeconomic expectations. However, the company 
reaffirmed all other targets for profitability. The stock rose moderately in Zurich.  Data released by the Office for 
National Statistics showed that the U.K. industrial and manufacturing output dropped unexpectedly in July. 
Industrial output dropped 0.4 percent on a monthly basis, confounding expectations for a marginal growth of 0.1 
percent. Manufacturing output declined 0.8 percent, while economists had expected it to grow 0.2 percent.  UK 
visible trade deficit widened for a second straight month in July to its biggest level in a year, exceeding economists' 
expectations, figures from the Office for National Statistics showed. The deficit in the trade in goods rose to 11.082 
European Markets Follow Asia Higher
billion pounds from 8.507 billion pounds in June. Economists had forecast a 9.5 billion pounds shortfall.  Crude for 
October delivery fell $0.51 to $45.43 per barrel, while December gold dropped $1.6 to $1119.4 a troy ounce.      
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Lifts FY Profit Guidance 25% On Strong Summer Traffic, Prices; Stock Up
Ryanair Lifts FY Profit Guidance 25% On Strong Summer Traffic, Prices; 
Stock Up
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 9, 2015 Wednesday 9:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 352 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) Wednesday raised its full- year net profit guidance 
by 25 percent, citing stronger than expected peak summer traffic and prices, as its Always Getting Better customer 
experience program won new customers at slightly higher than estimated air fares. The stock soared over 9 percent 
in early trade.  The company now expects net profit for the year in the range of 1.175 billion euros to 1.225 billion 
euros, compared to the previous expectation of 940 million euros to 970 million euros. 
 The main drivers for this improved guidance are first-half traffic growth of 13 percent, which was previously guided 
to be 10 percent, and fares up over 2 percent, which was earlier expected to be flat.  Third-quarter traffic growth is 
now expected to be 15 percent, compared to the prior projection of 13 percent. Fares for the quarter are now 
expected to be flat, as against -4 to -8 percent expected earlier.  Full-year 2016 traffic forecast is now increased to 
104 million, from the previous expectation of 103 million.  Yet, Ryanair cautioned that its full-year result remains 
heavily dependent on close-in bookings in the third and fourth quarters.   The company continues to expect 
downward pressure on fares and yields this winter as it grows strongly in major EU markets like Germany. At this 
time, competitors will begin to benefit from lower oil prices as historic hedges unwind.  Ryanair also confirmed that it 
has successfully recovered all funds that were the subject of a fraudulent electronic transfer to a Chinese bank in 
April.  Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary said, 'We would caution that not all of this improvement is due to either our 
model or our management. As a 'load factor active/yield passive' airline we have clearly benefited from favourable 
industry trends this summer including bad weather in Northern Europe, stronger sterling encouraging more UK 
families to holiday in the Med, reasonably flat capacity across the EU industry and lower prices for our unhedged 
oil.'   The stock climbed 9.4 percent in early trade to 14.15 pence.      
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Lifts FY Net Profit Guidance By 25% Amid Strong Summer Traffic, Prices
Ryanair Lifts FY Net Profit Guidance By 25% Amid Strong Summer Traffic, 
Prices
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 9, 2015 Wednesday 8:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 373 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) Wednesday raised its full year net profit guidance by 
25 percent from a current range of 940 million euros to 970 million euros to a new range of 1.175 billion euros to 
1.225 billion euros.  The company attributed the boost to stronger than expected peak summer traffic and prices as 
its 'Always Getting Better' customer experience program continues to win new customers at slightly higher than 
expected air fares.        The main drivers for this improved guidance are first-half traffic growth of 13 percent, which 
was previously guided to be 10 percent, and fares up over 2 percent, which were earlier expected to be flat. 
 Third-quarter traffic growth is now expected to be 15 percent, compare to the prior projection of 13 percent. Fares 
for the quarter are now expected to be flat, in comparison with the previous guidance of -4 to -8 percent.  Full-year 
2016 traffic is increased to 104 million, compared to the previous expectation of 103 million.  Ryanair cautioned that 
its full year result remains heavily dependent on close-in bookings in the third and fourth quarters.  Ryanair also 
confirmed that it has successfully recovered all funds that were the subject of a fraudulent electronic transfer to a 
Chinese bank in April.  According to the company, it had originally planned to update shareholders on current 
trading at its AGM on September 24, but the strength of its July and August numbers is continuing into September 
and the scale of the upgrade requires this update to be brought forward.   Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said, 'We 
would caution that not all of this improvement is due to either our model or our management.  As a 'load factor 
active/yield passive' airline we have clearly benefited from favourable industry trends this summer including bad 
weather in Northern Europe, stronger sterling encouraging more UK families to holiday in the Med, reasonably flat 
capacity across the EU industry and lower prices for our unhedged oil.'  The company does not expect that these 
favorable conditions will persist, and O'Leary urged shareholders and analysts to avoid irrational exuberance while 
the firm continues to execute its ambitious growth plans.      
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
Ryanair Lifts FY Net Profit Guidance By 25% Amid Strong Summer Traffic, Prices
End of Document
UK Market Notably Higher, Miners Gain
UK Market Notably Higher, Miners Gain
RTT News (United States)
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 360 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market rallied on Wednesday, tracking firm cues from Asia and Wall Street overnight, as 
investors chose to ignore an unexpected fall in U.K. industrial and manufacturing output.
The Asian stocks rallied, tracking strong gains in the U.S. and European markets overnight, as positive European 
GDP data and Beijing's relentless efforts to prop up the stock market boosted investors' appetite for riskier assets.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks rose sharply as investors 
returned from a holiday weekend. The Dow rallied 2.4 percent, the Nasdaq advanced 2.7 percent and the S&P 500 
climbed 2.5 percent.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks added 2.05 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which 
includes some major U.K. companies, rose 1.94 percent.
The FTSE 100 index climbed 1.9 percent.
Anglo American climbed 7.1 percent and Glencore added 5.1 percent. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto were gaining 5 
percent and 4.2 percent, respectively.
HSBC and Standard Chartered gained around 3 percent each.
Ryanair climbed around 7 percent after the Irish airline lifted its forecast for 2016.
Other markets in the region also were firmly in positive territory.
Data released by the Office for National Statistics showed that the U.K. industrial and manufacturing output dropped 
unexpectedly in July. Industrial output dropped 0.4 percent on a monthly basis, confounding expectations for a 
marginal growth of 0.1 percent. Manufacturing output declined 0.8 percent, while economists had expected it to 
grow 0.2 percent.
UK visible trade deficit widened for a second straight month in July to its biggest level in a year, exceeding 
economists' expectations, figures from the Office for National Statistics showed. The deficit in the trade in goods 
rose to 11.082 billion pounds from 8.507 billion pounds in June. Economists had forecast a 9.5 billion pounds 
shortfall.
UK Market Notably Higher, Miners Gain
Crude for October delivery rose $0.03 to $45.97 per barrel, while December gold dropped $0.6 to $1120.4 a troy 
ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Climbed After Strong Performance In Asia
European Markets Climbed After Strong Performance In Asia
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 9, 2015 Wednesday 6:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 654 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - The European markets climbed again Wednesday, extending their gains to a third 
consecutive session. The strong performance of the Asian markets overnight, particularly the 7.7 percent surge in 
Japan's NIKKEI 225, sparked sharp gains in early trade. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to cut 
corporate tax rates to shore up economic growth.  China's Shanghai Composite Index also jumped by 2.3 percent, 
adding to the 2.9 percent gain posted in the previous session. 
 The continued strength among Chinese stocks is partly due to optimism that the government will take additional 
steps to support the economy.  The markets finished off their intraday highs after early enthusiasm began to fade in 
the afternoon. The unexpected drop in the U.K.'s industrial output also had a negative impact on sentiment.  The 
Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased by 1.12 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 1.49 percent.   The DAX of Germany climbed by 0.31 percent 
and the CAC 40 of France rose by 1.44 percent. The FTSE of the U.K. gained 1.35 percent and the SMI of 
Switzerland finished higher by 1.27 percent.  In Frankfurt, BMW rose by 1.89 percent after Morgan Stanley raised it 
to 'Overweight' from 'Equalweight.' Daimler increased by 1.43 percent and Volkswagen added 1.80 percent.  RWE 
dropped by 1.88 percent and E.ON lost 0.52 percent.  In Paris,  Air France-KLM lost 0.48 percent. The company 
reported that traffic in August, measured in terms of revenue pax-kilometers, increased 2.1 percent to 25.76 billion 
from 25.22 billion in the previous year.  Renault advanced by 2.75 percent and Peugeot gained 1.80 percent. Car 
parts maker Valeo also increased by 3.38 percent.  In London, GlaxoSmithKline fell by 1.24 percent. A study of its 
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 100/25mcg failed to meet its primary endpoint in the treatment of COPD.  Wm Morrison 
Supermarkets advanced by 3.47 percent, after it agreed to sell 140 M local convenience stores for about 25 million 
pounds in cash, to a team led by retail entrepreneur Mike Greene and backed by Greybull Capital LLP.  Ryanair 
climbed by 5.18 percent after the Irish airline lifted its forecast for 2016.  Mining stocks turned in another strong 
performance. Anglo American surged by 5.54 percent and Glencore added 4.80 percent. BHP Billiton climbed by 
3.68 percent and Rio Tinto rose by 2.94 percent.  Volvo gained 2.00 percent in Stockholm, following a positive 
broker recommendation.  Engineering firm ABB lowered its revenue growth target for 2015-2020, reflecting reduced 
macroeconomic expectations. However, the company reaffirmed all other targets for profitability. The stock dipped 
by 0.05 percent in Zurich.  U.K. industrial production dropped unexpectedly and the visible trade gap widened to the 
European Markets Climbed After Strong Performance In Asia
highest level in a year in July largely due to a strong pound, suggesting a weak start to the third quarter.   Industrial 
output dropped 0.4 percent on a monthly basis in July, having had an equivalent fall in the prior month, the Office 
for National Statistics said Wednesday. Economists had forecast 0.1 percent growth for July. This was the second 
consecutive fall in production.  UK visible trade deficit widened for a second straight month in July to its biggest 
level in a year, exceeding economists' expectations, figures from the Office for National Statistics showed 
Wednesday. The deficit in the trade in goods rose to GBP 11.082 billion from GBP 8.507 billion in June. Economists 
had forecast a GBP 9.5 billion shortfall.  British shop prices declined for the twenty-eighth consecutive month in 
August, defying expectations for a slower drop, the British Retail Consortium said on Wednesday. Shop prices fell 
1.4 percent year-over-year in August, the same rate of decrease as in the previous month. Economists had forecast 
only a 0.2 percent drop for the month.      
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Follow Asia Higher
European Markets Follow Asia Higher
RTT News (United States)
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 518 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets jumped on Wednesday, tracking firm cues from Asia and Wall Street 
overnight, as investors chose to ignore an unexpected fall in U.K. industrial and manufacturing output.
The Asian stocks rallied, tracking strong gains in the U.S. and European markets overnight, as positive European 
GDP data and Beijing's relentless efforts to prop up the stock market boosted investors' appetite for riskier assets.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks rose sharply as investors 
returned from a holiday weekend. The Dow rallied 2.4 percent, the Nasdaq advanced 2.7 percent and the S&P 500 
climbed 2.5 percent.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks added 2.2 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which 
includes some major U.K. companies, rose 2.4 percent.
The German DAX, the French CAC 40, the FTSE 100 index of the U.K. and Switzerland's SMI were gaining 
between 1.7 percent and 2.3 percent.
In Frankfurt, Daimler and BMW climbed 3.2 percent each, and Volkswagen rose 2.7 percent. Morgan Stanley raised 
BMW to "Overweight" from "Equalweight." Tire maker Continental was up 2.7 percent.
HeidelbergCement added 2.7 percent, and Deutsche Telekom gained around 2 percent.
Insurer Allianz and specialty chemicals firm Lanxess rose 1.8 percent each.
In Paris, hotel group Accor climbed around 5 percent, thus leading the gainers.
Renault jumped 4.5 percent and Peugeot added 3.5 percent. Car parts maker Valeo rose around 4 percent.
LVMH and Airbus gained 3.4 percent and 3.2 percent, respectively.
In London, Anglo American climbed 7.1 percent and Glencore added 5.1 percent. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto were 
gaining 5 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively.
HSBC and Standard Chartered gained around 3 percent each.
Ryanair climbed around 7 percent after the Irish airline lifted its forecast for 2016.
European Markets Follow Asia Higher
Volvo gained 3.2 percent in Stockholm, following a positive broker recommendation.
Swiss engineering firm ABB lowered its revenue growth target for 2015-2020, reflecting reduced macroeconomic 
expectations. However, the company reaffirmed all other targets for profitability. The stock rose moderately in 
Zurich.
Data released by the Office for National Statistics showed that the U.K. industrial and manufacturing output dropped 
unexpectedly in July. Industrial output dropped 0.4 percent on a monthly basis, confounding expectations for a 
marginal growth of 0.1 percent. Manufacturing output declined 0.8 percent, while economists had expected it to 
grow 0.2 percent.
UK visible trade deficit widened for a second straight month in July to its biggest level in a year, exceeding 
economists' expectations, figures from the Office for National Statistics showed. The deficit in the trade in goods 
rose to 11.082 billion pounds from 8.507 billion pounds in June. Economists had forecast a 9.5 billion pounds 
shortfall.
Crude for October delivery fell $0.51 to $45.43 per barrel, while December gold dropped $1.6 to $1119.4 a troy 
ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Lifts FY Profit Guidance 25% On Strong Summer Traffic, Prices; Stock Up
Ryanair Lifts FY Profit Guidance 25% On Strong Summer Traffic, Prices; 
Stock Up
RTT News (United States)
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 363 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) Wednesday raised its full- year net profit guidance by 25 
percent, citing stronger than expected peak summer traffic and prices, as its Always Getting Better customer 
experience program won new customers at slightly higher than estimated air fares. The stock soared over 9 percent 
in early trade.
The company now expects net profit for the year in the range of 1.175 billion euros to 1.225 billion euros, compared 
to the previous expectation of 940 million euros to 970 million euros.
The main drivers for this improved guidance are first-half traffic growth of 13 percent, which was previously guided 
to be 10 percent, and fares up over 2 percent, which was earlier expected to be flat.
Third-quarter traffic growth is now expected to be 15 percent, compared to the prior projection of 13 percent. Fares 
for the quarter are now expected to be flat, as against -4 to -8 percent expected earlier.
Full-year 2016 traffic forecast is now increased to 104 million, from the previous expectation of 103 million.
Yet, Ryanair cautioned that its full-year result remains heavily dependent on close-in bookings in the third and 
fourth quarters.
The company continues to expect downward pressure on fares and yields this winter as it grows strongly in major 
EU markets like Germany. At this time, competitors will begin to benefit from lower oil prices as historic hedges 
unwind.
Ryanair also confirmed that it has successfully recovered all funds that were the subject of a fraudulent electronic 
transfer to a Chinese bank in April.
Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary said, "We would caution that not all of this improvement is due to either our model 
or our management. As a "load factor active/yield passive" airline we have clearly benefited from favourable 
industry trends this summer including bad weather in Northern Europe, stronger sterling encouraging more UK 
families to holiday in the Med, reasonably flat capacity across the EU industry and lower prices for our unhedged 
oil." The stock climbed 9.4 percent in early trade to 14.15 pence.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Ryanair Lifts FY Profit Guidance 25% On Strong Summer Traffic, Prices; Stock Up
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Lifts FY Net Profit Guidance By 25% Amid Strong Summer Traffic, Prices
Ryanair Lifts FY Net Profit Guidance By 25% Amid Strong Summer Traffic, 
Prices
RTT News (United States)
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 383 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) Wednesday raised its full year net profit guidance by 25 percent 
from a current range of 940 million euros to 970 million euros to a new range of 1.175 billion euros to 1.225 billion 
euros.
The company attributed the boost to stronger than expected peak summer traffic and prices as its "Always Getting 
Better" customer experience program continues to win new customers at slightly higher than expected air fares.
The main drivers for this improved guidance are first-half traffic growth of 13 percent, which was previously guided 
to be 10 percent, and fares up over 2 percent, which were earlier expected to be flat.
Third-quarter traffic growth is now expected to be 15 percent, compare to the prior projection of 13 percent. Fares 
for the quarter are now expected to be flat, in comparison with the previous guidance of -4 to -8 percent.
Full-year 2016 traffic is increased to 104 million, compared to the previous expectation of 103 million.
Ryanair cautioned that its full year result remains heavily dependent on close-in bookings in the third and fourth 
quarters.
Ryanair also confirmed that it has successfully recovered all funds that were the subject of a fraudulent electronic 
transfer to a Chinese bank in April.
According to the company, it had originally planned to update shareholders on current trading at its AGM on 
September 24, but the strength of its July and August numbers is continuing into September and the scale of the 
upgrade requires this update to be brought forward.
Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said, "We would caution that not all of this improvement is due to either our model or our 
management. As a "load factor active/yield passive" airline we have clearly benefited from favourable industry 
trends this summer including bad weather in Northern Europe, stronger sterling encouraging more UK families to 
holiday in the Med, reasonably flat capacity across the EU industry and lower prices for our unhedged oil."
The company does not expect that these favorable conditions will persist, and O'Leary urged shareholders and 
analysts to avoid irrational exuberance while the firm continues to execute its ambitious growth plans.
Ryanair Lifts FY Net Profit Guidance By 25% Amid Strong Summer Traffic, Prices
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Climbed After Strong Performance In Asia
European Markets Climbed After Strong Performance In Asia
RTT News (United States)
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 662 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets climbed again Wednesday, extending their gains to a third consecutive 
session. The strong performance of the Asian markets overnight, particularly the 7.7 percent surge in Japan's 
NIKKEI 225, sparked sharp gains in early trade. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to cut corporate tax 
rates to shore up economic growth.
China's Shanghai Composite Index also jumped by 2.3 percent, adding to the 2.9 percent gain posted in the 
previous session. The continued strength among Chinese stocks is partly due to optimism that the government will 
take additional steps to support the economy.
The markets finished off their intraday highs after early enthusiasm began to fade in the afternoon. The unexpected 
drop in the U.K.'s industrial output also had a negative impact on sentiment.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased by 1.12 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 1.49 percent.
The DAX of Germany climbed by 0.31 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose by 1.44 percent. The FTSE of the 
U.K. gained 1.35 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 1.27 percent.
In Frankfurt, BMW rose by 1.89 percent after Morgan Stanley raised it to "Overweight" from "Equalweight." Daimler 
increased by 1.43 percent and Volkswagen added 1.80 percent.
RWE dropped by 1.88 percent and E.ON lost 0.52 percent.
In Paris, Air France-KLM lost 0.48 percent. The company reported that traffic in August, measured in terms of 
revenue pax-kilometers, increased 2.1 percent to 25.76 billion from 25.22 billion in the previous year.
Renault advanced by 2.75 percent and Peugeot gained 1.80 percent. Car parts maker Valeo also increased by 3.38 
percent.
In London, GlaxoSmithKline fell by 1.24 percent. A study of its Relvar/Breo Ellipta 100/25mcg failed to meet its 
primary endpoint in the treatment of COPD.
European Markets Climbed After Strong Performance In Asia
Wm Morrison Supermarkets advanced by 3.47 percent, after it agreed to sell 140 M local convenience stores for 
about 25 million pounds in cash, to a team led by retail entrepreneur Mike Greene and backed by Greybull Capital 
LLP.
Ryanair climbed by 5.18 percent after the Irish airline lifted its forecast for 2016.
Mining stocks turned in another strong performance. Anglo American surged by 5.54 percent and Glencore added 
4.80 percent. BHP Billiton climbed by 3.68 percent and Rio Tinto rose by 2.94 percent.
Volvo gained 2.00 percent in Stockholm, following a positive broker recommendation.
Engineering firm ABB lowered its revenue growth target for 2015-2020, reflecting reduced macroeconomic 
expectations. However, the company reaffirmed all other targets for profitability. The stock dipped by 0.05 percent 
in Zurich.
U.K. industrial production dropped unexpectedly and the visible trade gap widened to the highest level in a year in 
July largely due to a strong pound, suggesting a weak start to the third quarter.
Industrial output dropped 0.4 percent on a monthly basis in July, having had an equivalent fall in the prior month, 
the Office for National Statistics said Wednesday. Economists had forecast 0.1 percent growth for July. This was 
the second consecutive fall in production.
UK visible trade deficit widened for a second straight month in July to its biggest level in a year, exceeding 
economists' expectations, figures from the Office for National Statistics showed Wednesday. The deficit in the trade 
in goods rose to GBP 11.082 billion from GBP 8.507 billion in June. Economists had forecast a GBP 9.5 billion 
shortfall.
British shop prices declined for the twenty-eighth consecutive month in August, defying expectations for a slower 
drop, the British Retail Consortium said on Wednesday. Shop prices fell 1.4 percent year-over-year in August, the 
same rate of decrease as in the previous month. Economists had forecast only a 0.2 percent drop for the month.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa firm as 1,000 flights stay on tarmac
Lufthansa firm as 1,000 flights stay on tarmac
City A.M.
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 24
Length: 278 words
Byline: MADELINE RATCLIFFE ; JESSICA MORRIS
Body
LUFTHANSA, the German airliner has cancelled around 1,000 flights today after a pilot strike was extended from 
long-haul flights to medium- and short-haul flights.
Europe's largest airline operator said that around 140,000 passengers will be affected as some of the medium- and 
short-haul aircraft fly up to eight times a day.
Yesterday's strike, the 13th in 18 months, meant the German airline was forced to cancel 84 long-haul flights, just 
under half the number scheduled, affecting around 20,000 passengers.
A Lufthansa spokesman said: "It is an unfortunate situation. The dispute has been going on for nearly two years 
without any recognisable progress. It is not possible to enter into meaningful negotiations [while the strike is 
ongoing] and we have had to limit conversations on Eurowings."
The company is involved in a longrunning dispute with its pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) over pay, benefits 
and cost cuts.
Lufthansa is cutting costs to fend off competition through its budget airline Eurowings, in a bid to claw back market 
share from low-cost rivals such as Ryanair.
VC wants Lufthansa to stop employing staff on non-German contracts for the expansion of Eurowings, which has 
an Austrian operating li-cence. The airline also announced it has just filed for (EURO)60m (£43.7m)-worth of 
damages relating to a strike in April 2014, which it says did not accord with strike legislation.
A VC spokesman said the union has not ruled out further strikes next week.
Lufthansa firm as 1,000 flights stay on tarmac
This comes after Unite union accused BA of "holding a gun to senior cabin crew", over changes to its Gatwick 
operations. Unite couldn't comment on whether they were considering industrial action.
Graphic
 
Lufthansa has filed for (EURO)60m in damages from the pilots' union
Load-Date: September 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair shares hit all-time high Ryanair shares ...
Ryanair shares hit all-time high; Ryanair shares ...
Business World (Digest)
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 188 words
Highlight: Ryanair shares soared to an all-time high on Wednesday after the airline hiked its annual profit forecast 
by 25 percent on strong summer fare growth, helped by bad weather in northern Europe and retrenchment by 
rivals.
Body
Ryanair shares soared to an all-time high on Wednesday after the airline hiked its annual profit forecast by 25 
percent on strong summer fare growth, helped by bad weather in northern Europe and retrenchment by rivals.
The Irish carrier -Europe's largest by passenger numbers -said it now expects net profit of between 1.18 billion 
eurosand 1.23 billion in the 12 months through March 2016, up from an earlier forecast of 940 million to 970 million.
Ryanair, whose hub at Stansted in eastern England serves destinations including holiday hotspots such as Alicante, 
Corfu and Ibiza, credited part of the growth to the success of its two-year old drive to improve customer service.
But it said poor weather in northern European markets, lower oil prices, the strength of sterling and a lack of new 
capacity on European short-haul services were key factors. "The softer approach to customer care appears to be 
paying dividends," Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said in a video statement. "But I would credit more of this to 
there being generally benign industry factors across Europe this summer." (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 14, 2015
End of Document
European shares rise, lifted by Ryanair after profit forecast hike European shares...
European shares rise, lifted by Ryanair after profit forecast hike; European 
shares...
Business World (Digest)
September 9, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 89 words
Highlight: European shares rose on Wednesday, boosted by a rally in shares of Ryanair, which hit an all-time high 
after it lifted its full-year profit forecast.
Body
European shares rose on Wednesday, boosted by a rally in shares of Ryanair, which hit an all-time high after it 
lifted its full-year profit forecast.
Ryanair surged 10 percent after it hiked its annual profit forecast by 25 percent, after its summer performance was 
boosted by bad weather in northern Europe and the strength of the British pound.
It was the top riser on the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 , which was up 2.1 percent at 1,444.61 points by 0707 
GMT, up for its third straight session. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 14, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches London summer 2016 schedule
Ryanair launches London summer 2016 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 8, 2015 Tuesday 12:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 563 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its London summer 2016 schedule with four new routes to/from Milan Malpensa, 
Sofia, Verona and Vilnius, over 150 routes in total and extra flights on 20 routes, which will deliver 22.8 million 
customers per annum and support more than 17,000 jobs at London Stansted, London Gatwick and London Luton.
Body
Ryanair's London summer 2016 schedule at London Stansted will deliver: 37 based aircraft; 3 new routes to Milan 
Malpensa, Sofia & Verona; 129 routes in total; extra flights on 18 routes (incl Berlin x daily, Cologne 3 x daily, 
Edinburgh 5 x daily, Glasgow 4 x daily); 1,200 weekly flights (5% growth); 20m customers p.a.; and 15,000 "on-site" 
jobs p.a. Ryanair's London summer 2016 schedule at London Gatwick will deliver: 5 routes in total (Dublin, Cork, 
Kaunas, Shannon & Seville); extra flights to Dublin (6 x daily); 62 weekly flights (12% growth); 1m customers p.a.; 
and 750 "on-site" jobs p.a. Ryanair's London summer 2016 schedule at London Luton will deliver: 4 based aircraft; 
1 new route to Vilnius; 18 routes in total; extra flights to Copenhagen (4 x daily); 123 weekly flights (13% growth); 
1.8m customers p.a.; and 1,350 "on-site" jobs p.a. UK consumers and visitors can choose from over 150 London 
routes in summer 2016 and can look forward to further improvements, as Ryanair continues Year 2 of its "Always 
Getting Better" programme, which has already delivered native mobile apps, reduced sports and airport fees and a 
new car hire partnership with CarTrawler. 
Customers can next look forward to a new personalised website, with great new digital features such as 'hold the 
fare' and destination content (from October), as well as an enhanced insurance product (from October), new crew 
uniforms and improved inflight menus (both from November) and new cabin interiors (from January). Ryanair also 
announced that it will introduce defibrillators on all of its aircraft from November, following consulation with its 
customers. In London, Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said: "After a record summer 2015, where we grew our traffic and 
load factor and improved our industry leading punctuality, Ryanair is pleased to launch our London summer 2016 
schedule, which includes new routes to Milan Malpensa (our newest base), Sofia, Verona and Vilnius, with over 150 
routes in total, which will deliver 22.8m million customers p.a at London Stansted, London Gatwick and London 
Luton airports. "UK customers and visitors continue to choose Ryanair for the lowest fares and biggest route 
network, while enjoying our ongoing "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvements. After introducing 
allocated seating, a second free carry-on bag allowance, Family Extra and Business Plus services, and reducing 
Ryanair launches London summer 2016 schedule
our fees in Year 1, we've continued to roll out Year 2 of our AGB programme, which has included new native apps, 
reduced sports and airport fees and the launch of Ryanair Car Hire, which went live on Ryanair.com yesterday. 
"Our 103m customers can look forward to further improvements in the coming months, including our ground 
breaking personalised website, with exciting new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and real customer 
destination reviews, and improved menus, new cabin crew uniforms and new cabin interiors on board, with more to 
come in Year 3, as we continue to offer so much more than just lowest fares. "To celebrate the launch of our 
London summer 2016 schedule, and latest AGB improvements, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our 
European network, which are available for booking until midnight Monday (7 Sep). Since these amazing low prices 
will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: September 14, 2015
End of Document
Borderless world of technology threatens Europe's business base
Borderless world of technology threatens Europe's business base
Financial Times (London, England)
September 8, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: GLOBAL INSIGHT; Pg. 6
Length: 637 words
Byline: John Thornhill in London
Body
With the market mayhem in China, for the first time in a long while Europe is not being fingered as the culprit for the 
latest global financial turmoil.
The creditors' agreement with Greece has brought some temporary respite to the eurozone, even if few economists 
are predicting the deal will stick, and 27 of the EU's 28 member states are forecast to record economic growth next 
year.
"Europe is doing very well thanks to low oil prices and low interest rates," says Michael O'Leary, chief executive of 
Ryanair, the Irish airline. "It will take some kind of conflagration for oil not to remain low for the next two years. That 
is good for the recovery in Europe, for manufacturers and consumers."
But if one tempest is fitfully fading, another one is hoving into view. The disruptive force of technology threatens to 
uproot many of the industries on which Europe has built its prosperity and challenge the balance of power across 
the world. This technological challenge, of course, is convulsing all governments, societies and economies. But 
some US tech entrepreneurs, who attended the Ambrosetti forum in Italy at the weekend, warned that Europe might 
be particularly exposed to the fast-changing "techno-geopolitics" of the world.
Craig Mundie, Microsoft's former chief research and strategy officer, says: "People still talk about the geopolitics of 
oil. But now we have to talk about the geopolitics of technology. Technology is creating a new type of interaction of 
a geopolitical scale and importance."
Borderless world of technology threatens Europe's business base
It is significant, he notes, that cyber security, data protection and privacy concerns will top the list for discussion 
when China's President Xi Jinping visits the US.
Mr Mundie suggests that Europe's tendency to shelter incumbent businesses rather than encourage insurgent 
companies may leave its economies particularly vulnerable to this disruptive change. The EU's consensual style of 
politics may also be ill-adapted to the times. The danger is that Europe is trying to wield old tools to solve new 
problems, as in the privacy debate, he suggests. "Europe is using its antitrust activism and trying to become a 
global enforcer on some of these questions. But I do not think that Europe's approach can work. In Europe, it is all 
about controlling the data not the user. Controlling the data is a hopeless quest. There has to be a shift of focus."
Vivek Wadhwa, a tech entrepreneur who teaches at Stanford University, also highlights the regulatory challenges 
that are confronting all governments as they struggle to stay abreast of the phenomenal technological 
developments. Robots are transforming manufacturing. Tech companies are amassing a wealth of data about their 
users' health and expanding into the healthcare business. The ever-increasing efficiency of solar panels will 
challenge the energy industry. The provision of global wifi will threaten existing telecommunications companies.
"Regulators do not understand these things. Between Washington DC and Silicon Valley is 3,000 miles and several 
lights years in terms of knowledge of tech," he says. The EU is even more removed from such debates.
Some European policymakers may, perhaps rightly, discount much of this Silicon Valley talk as overenthusiastic 
hype. Mr Mundie argues that government institutions around the world will need to be reconfigured to deal with 
techno-geopolitics. "We are trying to retrofit a governance structure which was derived from geographic borders. 
But we live in a borderless world," he says.
While European policymakers are still obsessed with designing the optimal institutional structure to manage their 
own currency and managing the migrant crisis, the world is changing very fast around them. Do they also have the 
institutional bandwidth to address the emerging technological challenges of our age?
john.thornhill@ft.com 
Load-Date: September 7, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa : fighting on all fronts
Lufthansa: fighting on all fronts
Financial Times (London, England)
September 8, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 16
Length: 325 words
Body
Hier wird gestreikt ! Lufthansa's pilots will walk out again this week, grounding many of the group's long-haul flights.
The dispute, which knocked almost a sixth off adjusted first-half profits of EUR623m, is over pensions and the 
growing use of lower-cost subsidiaries Eurowings and Germanwings for short-haul flights within Europe.
The German carrier, which also owns Swiss and Austrian Airlines, certainly needs to cut its costs. Margins before 
interest are lower than those of British Airways owner IAG - itself no stranger to pension disputes - and way below 
low-cost carriers such as easyJet and Ryanair, according to CapitalIQ data. Its shares, which narrowly escaped 
ejection from the Dax last month, have lagged behind the benchmark and many peers. There will be no dividend 
this year .
Its tardiness in tackling costs has made progress difficult. Carsten Spohr, chief executive, told Reuters last week 
that the company had its best July and August ever and that, as a result, it was certain to hit its full-year target of 
EUR1.5bn operating profit. It would surely have been easier to ask staff to wear the hair shirt of austerity a few 
years ago, when times were leaner.
In any case, Lufthansa's profitability is somewhat ephemeral. Much of it is down to lower oil costs: its fuel bill fell by 
almost EUR1.2bn (before currency effects) during the first half, and kerosene prices have retreated further since 
then. Seat capacity is still increasing (by 3 per cent in the first half) though this is because of bigger and more 
efficient aircraft on existing routes, not more flights.
Lufthansa : fighting on all fronts
The company is also fighting many battles at once. In addition to its stand-off with pilots, Lufthansa has taken on 
distributors by imposing a charge on bookings made through agents.
And it is being squeezed by low-cost carriers on short-haul routes and Gulf-based airlines on Asian routes. The 
share price could do with a victory on at least one of these fronts.
Load-Date: September 7, 2015
End of Document
What Stock Gyrations Are Signaling
What Stock Gyrations Are Signaling
International Business Times News
September 6, 2015 Sunday 12:57 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1769 words
Byline: Jessica Menton
Body
Sep 06, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Global 
fears about China's economic slowdown have rocked equity markets around the world the past few weeks, and 
while many stocks, and even entire sectors, have remained in a slump since the country's so-called Black Monday, 
some securities have snapped back impressively. However, the list of winners in recent weeks has been pretty 
short. And experts indicate this is telling for where the U.S. economy and its markets are heading.<nl/>
 The major sell-off in U.S. equities recently has been broad-based across almost every sector in the Standard ...or's 
500 index, and market professionals suggest investors should wait for the dust to settle in the short term. With 
money flowing out of the stock market, investors should hold bigger cash positions in their portfolios, said Karl 
Snyder, chief market strategist at Garden State Securities.<nl/> 'There's not a lot of safe sectors to be in right now,' 
Snyder said. 'As an investor, you're better off waiting on the sidelines to see how this plays out.'<nl/> Phil Davis, 
founder of PSW Investments LLC, agreed. 'I really didn't like the way things were looking this week and decided to 
cash out our positions,' Davis said.<nl/> Buying Opportunity? <nl/> Investors pulled a record $29.5 billion from 
equity funds in the week ending Aug. 26, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. This was the largest outflow 
since 2002, even exceeding any weekly movement seen amid the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 
2008. Then investors cautiously came back into the stock market, adding $10.7 billion in global equity funds in the 
week ending Sept. 2, marking the biggest inflow in eight weeks, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.<nl/> With more 
than 80 percent of the stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange trading below their 200-day moving averages, 
the bargains could create buying opportunities for investors, as shares could get even cheaper.<nl/> 'The biggest 
mistake investors made in 2008 was they started buying when the market first fell 10-20 percent, but then they 
missed out on better buying opportunities when the market fell another 50 percent from there,' Davis said.<nl/> 
Bullish Stocks <nl/> Ryanair<nl/> Wall Street is bullish on Ireland-based discount airline Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) for two reasons.<nl/> First, airline companies are direct beneficiaries of comparatively low 
energy prices. Fuel is one of their largest fixed costs, so paying less for fuel helps their bottom lines.<nl/> Second, 
airline stocks are performing well right now largely because those companies cater to consumers, who benefit 
from comparatively low gasoline prices. Gas prices act as an indirect tax on businesses and consumers, so when 
energy prices are low, that increases discretionary spending, or the amount of money consumers have to spend. 
People then have more money to buy plane tickets, thus boosting the airline companies' revenue.<nl/> 'Even if 
there's a slowdown in the economy, airliners' profits are going to still benefit by people traveling more. They have 
more money put back into their pockets due to fuel prices coming down at such a rapid rate,' said Adam Sarhan, 
founder and CEO of Sarhan Capital.<nl/> Ryanair's share price shed nearly 7 percent in the market's downturn 
What Stock Gyrations Are Signaling
Aug. 20-24. Since then, however, its stock has rallied a bit more than 9 percent, hitting an all-time closing high of 
$76.31 Friday.<nl/> Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) lost more than 5 percent after U.S. stocks 
saw a steep sell-off Aug. 24. Since then, the shares have bounced back, and the stock hit an all-time closing high of 
$76.31 Sept. 4. Thomson Reuters <nl/><nl/>Baker Hughes, Transocean<nl/> Oil prices have lost more than half of 
their value over the last year, which has weighed on energy companies. However, experts are bullish on service 
companies, such as Baker Hughes Inc. (NYSE:BHI) and Transocean LTD (NYSE:RIG) because low oil prices don't 
greatly affect those companies since they still have to pump oil regardless of low energy prices.<nl/> 'They're so 
ridiculously low that you may as well buy them at this point because they're trading at such low valuation,' David 
said.<nl/> Shares of Baker Hughes lost more than 10 percent after the S...00 broke its key resistance level on Aug. 
20. However, shares have soared 16 percent since Aug. 25. Meanwhile, shares of Transocean lost 10 percent of 
their value from Aug. 20-24, but have since rallied nearly 10 percent. <nl/> Shares of Baker Hughes Inc. 
(NYSE:BHI) lost more than 10 percent after the S...00 broke through a key support level Aug. 20. However, shares 
have soared 16 percent since Aug. 25. Thomson Reuters <nl/><nl/>Bearish Stocks <nl/> Alibaba, JD.Com<nl/> 
However, experts warns to stay away from stocks that have large exposure to China, such as e-commerce retailers 
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (NYSE:BABA) and JD.Com Inc. (ADR) (NASDAQ:JD). 'I would avoid highly speculative 
stocks with poor fundamentals that are losing money,' Sarhan said.<nl/> Chinese e-commerce giant posted 
quarterly sales that missed Wall Street forecasts. Though the company's revenue rose 28 percent, it marked 
Alibaba's slowest growth in more than three years. More than 80 percent of its revenue comes from its home 
market, and as China and other Asian economies slow, the company's growth is decelerating.<nl/> Shares of 
Alibaba lost 10 percent between Aug. 20-24, and have lost another 3 percent since then. Meanwhile, shares of 
JD.Com lost 10.6 percent during the same time period, and has extended losses by nearly 5 percent from 
then.<nl/> Since Aug. 20, shares of Alibaba have lost nearly 13 percent. Thomson Reuters <nl/><nl/>Red 
Flags Emerging for Safe Haven Stocks <nl/> More troubling, many of the traditional 'go to' sectors are no longer 
doing well. For example, investors historically flock to safe-haven, defensive stocks in the utility sector during a 
corrective phase because those stocks typically still perform well as people will still need gas and electricity. 
However, most utility stocks haven't been doing well this year because the sector is not in a growth phase. The 
sector has lost 14 percent since January.<nl/> Not only are utilities taking a hit, but also healthcare stocks, which 
had gained 10 percent from January until Aug. 20. Since then, the sector has erased nearly all of its gains for the 
year.<nl/> 'It's indiscriminate selling across the board, which is signaling the trend is changing,' Snyder said.<nl/> 
The S...00 Utilities Sector has lost more than 9 percent since Aug. 20. Thomson Reuters <nl/><nl/>End of the Bull 
Market?<nl/> After nearly six-and-a-half years into the bull market following the Great Recession, the S...00 broke 
below a key six-month support level on Aug. 20, a little over a week after global markets traded volatile after China 
devalued the yuan. Leadership has narrowed considerably in the last 6 to 8 months as fewer and fewer stocks are 
holding the market up, and fewer and fewer stocks are hitting new highs.<nl/> 'That tells you that the structure of 
the market is changing,' Sarhan warned.<nl/> What came next was unprecedented. The Dow plummeted 1,000-
points within the first few minutes of trading on Aug. 24 -- the largest point loss ever during a trading day, 
surpassing the Flash Crash of 2010. The index then closed down 588 points for the trading session, recording its 
worst day for the blue-chip index since August 2011.<nl/>//www.findthebest.com/w/b9pMiIkrW7z[1]<nl/> Dow Jones 
Industrial Average ($DJI) Stock Price - Trailing Year | FindTheBest<nl/> The volatile swings on Aug. 24 were driven 
by a reaction to China's 'Black Monday,' which saw its benchmark Shanghai composite lose nearly 9 percent, 
erasing gains for the year. The recent volatility comes after the Dow and S...00 hit all-time closing highs in May, 
along with the Nasdaq hitting a new record in July.<nl/> U.S. stocks extended losses that same day, with the major 
averages all below their 200-day moving averages. A move through a major moving average is often used as a 
signal by traders that the trend is reversing.<nl/> 'We could be in the beginning stages of a bear market,' said Jim 
Samson, publisher of Wall Street Informer.<nl/> The recent downturn is more reminiscent of the correction in 
August 2011, said Snyder, rather than the downturn in market in 2007 that followed with the financial crisis in 2008, 
or in 2000 when the stock market burst following the dot-com bubble. The last time Wall Street saw a correction of 
more than 10 percent was in 2011 during the midst of Standard ...or's slashing U.S. government's credit rating 
below AAA for the first time.<nl/> Up Next: More China Data, Fed Meeting<nl/> Next week could bring more 
volatility in the global markets. Investors will sort through a series of economic data coming out of China data that 
will receive a high level of scrutiny, including China's trade balance, inflation data and retail sales.<nl/> The 
following week is the Federal Reserve's highly anticipated meeting on Sept. 16 and 17, which will include a news 
conference by Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen. Most economists had previously anticipated the central bank would 
What Stock Gyrations Are Signaling
announce raising interest rates this month for the first time in nearly a decade, but some experts say it could come 
down to the wire following the recent stock market gyrations.<nl/> 'If the market doesn't calm over the next two 
weeks, then the Fed probably won't announce a rate hike at this next meeting,' said Jeffrey Cleveland, chief 
economist at Payden ...gel. <nl/> If the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), considered the best gauge of fear in the U.S. 
stock market, spikes above 30 in the next two weeks, that could be a good gauge to use for whether the Fed will 
announced it will not hike rates at its meeting in mid-September, Cleveland said.<nl/> The VIX leaped as much as 
90 percent to 53 after the Dow dropped 1,000 points following the opening bell on Aug.24. The last time the index 
jumped above 50 prior to that day was in March 2009.<nl/> As the Fed moves closer to tightening monetary policy, 
it will likely shift the equity market into a more volatile environment.<nl/> 'It's a very fragile house of cards that 
central banks have built here, and it doesn't take much to knock it over,' David said. 'China is a big wrecking ball 
coming to hit everything. It's not worth the risk to stay invested in the stock market. It's easier to cash out.'<nl/> [ 1]:       
     http://www.findthebest.com/w/b9pMiIkrW7z 
Load-Date: September 6, 2015
End of Document
Market Briefs
Market Briefs
Sunday Business Post
September 6, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 625 words
Body
The Irish Stock Exchange has reported a pre-tax profit of EUR 6.2 million for 2014, down from the EUR 7.2 million 
recorded a year earlier.
However, the exchange reported a 9 per cent increase in revenue to EUR 24.9 million.
In a statement, it said that it had enjoyed a    record year of activity   in its equity trading and debt listing markets.
At the end of last year, more than 32,000 securities from 4,100 issuers in 81 countries were listed on the ISE's four 
international markets.
   We have strengthened our status as the leading European exchange for fixed income and funds and reinforced 
our position as the centre of liquidity for Irish equities,   chief executive Deirdre Somers said.
.........................
**Strong growth from Total Produce**
Fresh food company Total Produce has reported an 11.5 per cent rise in its first-half pre-tax profit to EUR 30.3 
million, helped by a strong operational performance and recent acquisitions.
The company also announced that revenue had increased to EUR 1.73 billion during the period, a jump of 9.2 per 
cent.
In a statement, Total Produce said that it plans to raise its interim dividend by 15 per cent to 0.736 cent per share.
According to Goodbody, the latest results    continues Total Produce's strong track record of consistent earnings 
growth  .
Market Briefs
   Total Produce has the capacity to continue its consolidation of the EU and US fresh produce markets,   the broker 
noted.
.........................
**New route for Ryanair**
Ryanair has launched its Dublin 2016 summer schedule with one new route to Amsterdam and extra flights on 14 
other routes, including those to Barcelona, Berlin, Birmingham and Brussels.
Meanwhile, the airline said last week that it carried 10.4 million passengers in August, a 10 per cent increase on the 
same month last year, as its load factor rose to 95 per cent from 93 per cent. Ryanair will hold its annual general 
meeting on September 24 in the Radisson Blu Hotel at Dublin Airport.
.........................
**AIB to add branches**
AIB has announced plans to open three new branches in Cork and Dublin at the end of October, the first expansion 
of its branch network in three years.
The new branches will be located at Grand Canal Dock and Carrickmines Retail Park in Dublin and in Little Island in 
Cork. All three locations will have extended opening hours during the week and the Dublin locations will open at 
weekends.
   Over the past number of years, AIB has transformed its business to be more focused on customer needs, with 
flexible banking hours, the latest in in-branch technologies and significant improvements in mobile and online 
banking,   the bank's chief executive Bernard Byrne said in a statement.
.........................
**Smurfit succeeds McGann**
Tony Smurfit has taken over as chief executive of packaging giant Smurfit Kappa, succeeding Gary McGann.
In a statement marking the transition, the company's chairman Liam O'Mahony said that the board    looks forward 
to the group's next phase of growth and development under Tony's leadership  .
Earlier this year, Smurfit Kappa announced that McGann would retire on August 31 and be replaced at the helm of 
the company by the then chief operating officer, Tony Smurfit.
McGann, who brought Smurfit Kappa back to the stock market in 2007, had been chief executive since 2002.
.........................
**The week ahead**
Tomorrow, exploration company Petroceltic will hold two extraordinary meetings, which investors are likely to watch 
closely. Also tomorrow, Green Reit will publish its latest results and Associated British Foods (ABF), the British 
sugar and ingredient company that also owns retailer Primark, will publish a trading update. Then, on Wednesday, 
hotel group Dalata will publish half year results.
Load-Date: September 7, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair pilot tested positive for alcohol before flight
Ryanair pilot tested positive for alcohol before flight
Sunday Business Post
September 6, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 250 words
Body
A Ryanair pilot who had reported for duty to fly out of Marseille airport tested positive for alcohol last month after 
local police were called by another crew member, The Sunday Business Post has learned.
The pilot, who is European but not Irish, is now facing Ryanair disciplinary procedures as well as possible legal 
action in France.
In a statement, Ryanair confirmed last week:    A Ryanair pilot in Marseille last month was suspected by his fellow 
crew members of smelling of alcohol when he reported for duty.  
   In line with Ryanair's 'zero tolerance' alcohol policy prior to duty, the local police were called by Ryanair and 
requested to breathalyse this individual,   it added.
   When he tested positive for alcohol, he was immediately stood down from duty and a stand-by pilot was rostered 
to Marseille to undertake this flight duty.  
   The pilot in question is now the subject of disciplinary procedures and possible legal action in Marseille.  
   Ryanair commended the other pilot and cabin crew members on duty that day for their action in reporting their 
concerns before the start of this duty,   the airline added.
The incident involving Ryanair happened about two weeks ago, but has not previously been reported.
Last month a Latvian co-pilot flying for AirBaltic, who was seven times over the legal limit to fly a plane, was jailed 
for six months.
The 38-year-old pilot admitted that he drank two bottles of whisky and some beer before the airBaltic flight from 
Oslo Airport in Norway.
Ryanair pilot tested positive for alcohol before flight
Load-Date: September 7, 2015
End of Document
The week in business
The week in business
Sunday Business Post
September 6, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1008 words
Body
Ryan's Latin American investment pays off as Viva Group takes wing
I see that Declan Ryan's plan to conquer the Latin American skies is flying high.
The Viva Group, where Ryan's Irelandia Aviation is a key investor, had a great first year bringing no-frills flying to 
Panama, with flights between Panama City, Bogotá and Medellín.
Panama ticket prices have fallen by 65 per cent, and the market has increased by 25 per cent, Viva told local press, 
and it has carried more than 123,000 passengers.
Grupo Viva, as it's known locally, includes VivaColumbia headquartered in Bogotá and VivaAerobus operating out 
of Mexico. As it expands, it plans to brand as VivaCam (the Cam standing for Central America).
Latin America was uncharted territory for the whole budget airline model until a few years ago, when bus travel was 
the choice for the masses, until a flourishing middle class with disposable income attracted carriers like Viva to 
compete and push down prices, the way Irelandia's Tiger Airways did in Asia.
Taxes, fees and lack of joined-up regulatory agreements across the region pose challenges, but Viva plans to roll 
out airlines in at least five more countries and add more flights from Latin America to US destinations.
Next up are Costa Rica and, possibly, Ecuador and Peru.
Separately, I note that Irelandia adviser and board member Howard Millar has acquired yet another directorship.
As well as joining the board of Ryanair, last month Millar also became a director at ASL Aviation Group, one of 
Europe's top freight carriers. He's a director of Applegreen and struggling property firm Ifcana Developments, and is 
chairman of BDO.
.........................
The week in business
**Hello, Joe, whaddya know?**
There seems to be a latte (sorry!) going on at Joe's Coffee, which is owned by culinary entrepreneur Domini Kemp. 
It has recently invested a tidy sum of EUR 5,000 in its new purchasing app, she tells us, and she's looking to 
expand to a third location and to buy a coffee truck.
The app was designed by Northern tech company Beans Up, and is good news for caffeine lovers who are beyond 
queuing (aren't we all!). With the app, you can pre-order and collect your coffees - and the first cup is free when you 
sign up, by the way.
Kemp said she had no expectations around sales just yet.    We are still learning about the possibilities regarding 
service and add-on benefits,   she said.    But it's interesting to note that Starbucks now has 12 million active users 
with its new app in the US.  
Since opening in Arnotts in November 2013, said Kemp, the business had seen double-digit growth.
   The first six to eight months were painfully slow. But Arnotts knew we needed to give the brand time to develop 
the right way. It takes at least a year to get traction with a new brand,   she said.
Joe's Coffee is also located on Montague Street in Dublin.
.........................
**CIE boss is a hot property again**
Congratulations to Mike Flannery, the soon-to-depart chief operations officer and financial head at CIE. Flannery, 
who formerly headed up a division of developer Bernard McNamara's empire, is returning to the property fray, I 
hear.
   Mike Flannery is leaving his role . . . to take up the position of chief executive of a company in the property sector,   
the state transport agency spokesman confirmed.    During his three years in CIE, in a most challenging 
environment, he successfully negotiated a new and extended banking facility, and led the group and its operating 
companies in managing our cash and finances to the new banking covenants, as well as strengthening financial 
reporting and liaising on behalf of the group with our funding department, the Department of Transport, Tourism and 
Sport.  
Phew! The property game will be positively restful after all that.
.......................
**Bowler wins at D4 monopoly**
Gillian Bowler got what she wanted in the end, but some of her neighbours are not too happy.
The businesswoman has won approval from planners to demolish her house on lush and leafy Morehampton Road 
in Dublin 4, and replace it with a development of four new ones.
It's a canny move to make - several houses smaller than the ones she's planning have sold for more than EUR 1 
million this year. So it's a case of    collect megabucks and pass Go  .
Several of the former Irish Permanent boss's neighbours were aghast, and appealed on grounds ranging variously 
from the classic planning objection of it being    out of character  , to flooding, to the rather more curious observation 
that it was applied for at the wrong address.
But the most interesting of all the objections came from PR spinner and former Sunday Times Ireland editor Rory 
Godson and his wife Hilary, who are concerned about    garden-grabbing   and the    loss of an urban wildlife haven  
.
The week in business
.........................
**Bean counters reach for their wellies**
Who should I see on the 2015 Ploughing Championships' massive list of 1,400 exhibitors, but the Central Bank of 
Ireland.
While they are notoriously difficult to engage with at their lofty Dame Street tower home, the financial system 
watchdogs are getting down with the people at Ratheniska, Co Laois towards the end of this month, writing to the 
attending Credit Union National Association and others that    we look forward to seeing you there  .
Less welcome was a recent letter to all credit unions reminding them of the several different levies (there are five, 
including 'industry funding' and a 'consumer protection' levy) the CBI collects, helpfully supplying IBAN numbers to 
remind them which money goes to which account.
.........................
**Tweete of the week:**Liam Hogan @Limerick1914    Cannot take Refugees, says Irish Delegates   as Ireland is    
too small   (July 1938) A Limerick historian tweeted a copy of a press piece about Ireland's excuses for refusing 
Jewish refugees. Plus ça change.
.........................
**Word on the street:**A certain mega-wealthy tax exile likes to circle the airport until the dot of midnight, to 
maximise his permitted time in Ireland to the last second . . .
Load-Date: September 7, 2015
End of Document
Cityjet to double its fleet in funding deal with UK firm
Cityjet to double its fleet in funding deal with UK firm
Sunday Business Post
September 6, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 791 words
Body
By Fearghal O'Connor
Cityjet is to double its fleet after striking an innovative new funding deal with an aircraft leasing company, according 
to Pat Byrne, its executive chairman.
Byrne returned seven months ago to the Swords, Co Dublin headquartered airline he founded in 1993 to lead a new 
strategy.
Within weeks Cityjet will announce a new aircraft deal and a big contract that will see it fly regional routes for a 
major European airline, Byrne told this newspaper.
The airline, which employs 500 people, has struck an innovative partnership with British aviation leasing firm Falko 
to invest an undisclosed amount in the airline.
The deal is currently before the Commission for Aviation Regulation to ensure it does not contravene strict EU 
airline ownership regulations, it is understood.
Cityjet and Falko are already jointly talking to major carriers to win so-called    wet lease   contracts to provide 
aircraft and crew to fly short haul routes.
   Negotiations are very advanced with one particular major brand European airline and we are tracking another 
two,   said Byrne.
The airline's fleet will grow from 18 to between 30 and 40 aircraft within three years, completely replacing its 
existing planes, as part of the Falko deal.
   We are looking at very modern jets with just under 100 seats. We are making final decisions between a couple of 
manufacturers at the moment and will make that selection very, very soon,   he said.
Cityjet to double its fleet in funding deal with UK firm
The withdrawal after just seven months of British carrier Flybe from the cut-throat Dublin-London City route, which 
accounts for 30 per cent of Cityjet's scheduled services, was    a moral victory  , said Byrne.    They only came on 
the route because they smelled blood in the water and thought we were gone. They muscled in to muscle us out. It 
was hugely important that we made them run the white flag up the pole.  
Cityjet, which competes with BA on the route, now has 65 per cent of the route, contributing to a 40 per cent overall 
traffic boost in the last six months, he said.
This he puts down to Cityjet's new strategy to broaden its appeal beyond business travellers towards the leisure 
market, a mirror image of Ryanair's new more business-oriented strategy.
But growth prospects for Cityjet are largely in the wet lease business, which Byrne expects will account for 60 per 
cent of its business. Nevertheless, the scheduled network based out of London City will remain the airline's    calling 
card  , said Byrne.
   When we offer big airlines our wet lease services, we can point to the high standards in our scheduled service to 
show what we provide. That's a huge selling tool,   he said.
The Falko partnership will allow Cityjet to develop almost self financing contracts with major airlines, said Byrne.
   If I win a contract from a big airline to fly 100 seat aircraft for them for a period of years, that's guaranteed income. 
The leasing company then understands where the money is coming from and can confidently source the aircraft. 
No other airline has such an innovative approach and it is the reason I came back to head up Cityjet.
   Being a regional airline just flying your own route network at your own risk is a difficult and fragile business and 
not a good model. We are turning Cityjet into a broader mixed aviation business. I think we are future proofed,   he 
said.
Byrne's previous tumultuous incarnation with Cityjet ended in 2000 with Air France buying the carrier and it taught 
him how limited options are when a company runs out of money.
   When I was trying to develop Cityjet I spent far too much time trying to raise money instead of spending time 
developing the business. So the big lesson I've learned is find a big stack of money and make sure you have the 
right funding.  
Air France finally exited the business last April, after what Byrne described as a    dark period  .
   Staff had been sort of suppressed because things had been pretty dark. Air France was going through its own 
troubles and trying to divest itself of a lot of subsidiaries. Things were very depressing and the last few months have 
been liberating,   he said.
Other large airlines have run into the same situation as Air France, said Byrne.
   They acquire small companies like Cityjet thinking they can get cheaper service delivery but when they subsume 
it into the organisation it becomes part of the organisation. It loses a lot of its efficiency and the rationale for doing it 
gets dissipated.  
He sees an increasing role for airlines like Cityjet providing services to bigger airlines but only if they are 
independent and retain their    enterprise culture  .
   If you don't have that, you won't control the costs, you won't have agility and flexibility and you just become 
institutionalised,   he said.
Load-Date: September 7, 2015
Cityjet to double its fleet in funding deal with UK firm
End of Document
Fellow travellers
Fellow travellers
Financial Times (London, England)
September 4, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 19
Length: 205 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
Keeping up with the O'Learys? EasyJet is always adamant it is a different sort of business to Ryanair. But one 
suspected the British low-cost airline might have brought forward passenger numbers - and with them a profits 
upgrade - to show it was holding its own against its Irish rival.
EasyJet, led by the doughty Carolyn McCall , yesterday announced it shifted 7m passengers last month, a 7 per 
cent jump compared with last time. On Wednesday, Ryanair, piloted by the tenacious Michael O'Leary , said it had 
raised cargoes of slightly squashed people 10 per cent to 10.4m.
Where EasyJet trumped Ryanair was in lifting its guidance for full-year profits before tax from £620m-£660m to 
£675m-£700m. Its financial year ends in September. So a late summer surge in business - triggered here by a 
strong pound and bad British weather - can sharply change the outlook.
Bulls hope easyJet's traditional 50 per cent stock price discount will erode. But as Davy's Stephen Furlong points 
out, the Irish airline retains big advantages of cost and scale. Moreover, it has copied some of easyJet's off-the-wall 
innovations. Like being nice to customers. Time for easyJet to copy Ryanair and be a little nastier, perhaps.
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com 
Load-Date: September 3, 2015
Fellow travellers
End of Document
Leading equity analysts back Wizz Air with a 'buy' rating
Leading equity analysts back Wizz Air with a 'buy' rating
City A.M.
September 4, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 136 words
Byline: LAUREN FEDOR
Body
LOW-COST carrier Wizz Air received a boost yesterday when both Inves-tec and UBS started coverage of the 
company with "buy" ratings.
"The leading low-cost carrier in Central and Eastern Europe [CEE] is set to outperform peers in terms of passenger 
and profit growth due to its highly attractive network anchored in a high growth region," said Investec analysts.
UBS analysts echoed Investec's comments, saying that the Hungarian carrier's focus on CEE offered opportunities 
for structural growth.
The analysts added that despite Ryanair proving a strong competitor in the region, Wizz Air had inc-reased its 
profitability and taken over as the carrier with the largest market share, at 39 per cent.
Investors weren't convinced however, Wizz Air, which floated in London in February, closed the trading day down 
0.45 per cent.
Load-Date: September 4, 2015
End of Document
Tourism Ireland welcomes new Ryanair routes Tourism Ireland...
Tourism Ireland welcomes new Ryanair routes; Tourism Ireland...
Business World (Digest)
September 3, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 195 words
Highlight: Tourism Ireland have today welcomed Ryanair's announcement of a new route from Amsterdam, 
commencing on 27 October, as well as extra flights from other important tourism markets like Germany (Berlin), 
Spain (Barcelona and Madrid), Italy (Treviso), Belgium
Body
Tourism Ireland have today welcomed Ryanair's announcement of a new route from Amsterdam, commencing on 
27 October, as well as extra flights from other important tourism markets like Germany (Berlin), Spain (Barcelona 
and Madrid), Italy (Treviso), Belgium (Brussels) and Britain (London Gatwick, Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham 
and East Midlands.
The organisation say that say that the new flights will provide a welcome boost for tourism from the Netherlands 
and elsewhere around Mainland Europe and Britain.
CEO of Tourism Ireland, Niall Gibbons said, "We have seen very welcome growth of almost +13% in visitors from 
Mainland Europe and +10% from Britain for the first seven months of 2015. Tourism Ireland is working hard to 
ensure that the island of Ireland increases its share of the global travel business this autumn, in 2016 and beyond."
Dublin Airport Managing Director, Vincent Harrison also welcomed the the news. "This announcement is good news 
for Irish business and tourism to Ireland, particularly as a recent economic study highlighted the huge importance of 
Dublin Airport as an engine of growth for the Irish economy," he said. Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches Dublin summer 2016 schedule Ryanair launche...
Ryanair launches Dublin summer 2016 schedule; Ryanair launche...
Business World (Digest)
September 3, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 132 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today launched their Dublin summer 2016 schedule which includes 83 routes in total and 
extra flights on 14 routes.
Body
Ryanair have today launched their Dublin summer 2016 schedule which includes 83 routes in total and extra flights 
on 14 routes.
They claim that this will deliver 11.75m customers p.a. (+1.1m) and will support 8,800 jobs, as Ryanair grows by 
15% at Dublin Airport.
Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport, Paschal Donohoe said, "The growth at Dublin Airport outlined here today 
by Ryanair is good news for customers, who now have greater choice; for job creation, which will grow as a result, 
and for Irish aviation, which is going from strength to strength.
"The addition of a new route to Amsterdam from winter 2015 and additional capacity on another 14 routes further 
strengthens Ryanair's position across Europe and facilitates the growth of tourism here at home." Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair posts sunny August data IN BRIEF
Ryanair posts sunny August data; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
September 3, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 69 words
Body
? Perhaps the grey and cloudy British summer had a silver lining for Ryanair, with 10 per cent more Brits escaping 
to the sun in August than the same month in 2014.
Passenger totals for last month rose to 10.4m customers. Load factor, an important airline industry metric to 
measure plane seats actually filled, was up two per cent to 95 per cent for August - meaning the chance of a spare 
seat next to you is slim.
Load-Date: September 3, 2015
End of Document
UK Market Slightly Up, Ashtead Climbs After Results
UK Market Slightly Up, Ashtead Climbs After Results
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 2, 2015 Wednesday 1:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 359 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - The UK market advanced fractionally on Wednesday afternoon, even as global growth 
worries continued. The sentiment was partly due to bargain-hunting, following steep losses in the previous session 
after China's faltering demand bruised metal and mining stocks.  On a light day for economic news, Eurozone's 
producer prices declined at a stable rate in July, in line with expectations, Eurostat said. 
The producer price index fell 2.1 percent year-over-year in July, the same rate of decrease as in the previous 
month.  British construction activity growth improved less-than-expected in August, survey results from the 
Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply and Markit Economics revealed.  The seasonally adjusted 
Markit/CIPS UK Construction Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 57.3 from 57.1 in July. Economists had forecast 
a score of 57.5.  The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks added 0.28 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 
50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, was unchanged.   The FTSE 100 index added marginally.  
Ashtead group climbed 5.6 percent, after reporting first-quarter results.  Hikma Pharmaceuticals added 3.6 percent 
and 3i group climbed 3.1 percent.  Ryanair gained more than 2 percent after reporting growth in traffic and load 
factor for August.  Antofagasta and BHP Billiton gained 3.1 percent and 3 percent, respectively. Meanwhile, 
Glencore dropped 2.6 percent.  Other major markets in the region also rose.  Across Asia/Pacific, markets steadied 
as Chinese stocks rebounded from an earlier sharp sell-off and futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average and 
the Standard & Poor's 500 Index rebounded after a bruising sell-off in global stocks the previous day.  In the U.S., 
futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the major averages lost about 3 percent each 
to post their third-worst drop this year, as signs of further weakness in China reignited investors' concerns about the 
global economy.  In the commodity space, crude for October delivery fell $1.04 to $44.37 per barrel, while 
December gold advanced $0.5 to $1140.3 a troy ounce.      
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Turn Positive; Ashtead Climbs
European Markets Turn Positive; Ashtead Climbs
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 2, 2015 Wednesday 1:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 519 words
Body
       PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets turned positive on Wednesday afternoon, even as global growth 
worries continued. The sentiment was partly due to bargain-hunting, following steep losses in the previous session 
after China's faltering demand bruised metal and mining stocks.  On a light day for economic news, Eurozone's 
producer prices declined at a stable rate in July, in line with expectations, Eurostat said.The producer price index 
fell 2.1 percent year-over-year in July, the same rate of decrease as in the previous month. 
 British construction activity growth improved less-than-expected in August, survey results from the Chartered 
Institute of Procurement and Supply and Markit Economics revealed.  The seasonally adjusted Markit/CIPS UK 
Construction Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 57.3 from 57.1 in July. Economists had forecast a score of 57.5.  
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks added 0.28 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which 
includes some major U.K. companies, was unchanged.  The German DAX, the French CAC 40, the U.K.'s FTSE 
100 and Switzerland's SMI were modestly higher.  In Frankfurt, Deutsche Boerse climbed 1.5 percent. Drugmaker 
Merck and Infineon technologies added 1.4 percent each.   Meanwhile, utility E.ON fell 2.1 percent and peer RWE 
lost 1.5 percent.  Commercial vehicles maker MAN SE said its board decided to apply for cancellation of the listing 
of the shares in the Prime Standard and transfer to a General Standard listing. The stock is down modestly.  In 
Paris, Alstom added around 2 percent amid report that General Electric Co. is poised to win approval in Europe for 
its purchase of the speed-train maker's energy business shortly.  Hotel group Accor gained 1.3 percent. Kering and 
Sanofi added moderately.  Car parts maker Valeo declined 1.7 percent. Bouygues and Safran dropped 1.6 percent 
and 1.4 percent, respectively.  Vivendi was up 0.6 percent. The media company reportedly increased its stake in 
French video platform Dailymotion, now controlling 90 percent of its holding.  In London, Ashtead group climbed 5.6 
percent, after reporting first-quarter results.  Hikma Pharmaceuticals added 3.6 percent and 3i group climbed 3.1 
percent.  Ryanair gained more than 2 percent after reporting growth in traffic and load factor for August.  
Antofagasta and BHP Billiton gained 3.1 percent and 3 percent, respectively. Meanwhile, Glencore dropped 2.6 
percent.  Across Asia/Pacific, markets steadied as Chinese stocks rebounded from an earlier sharp sell-off and 
futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index rebounded after a bruising sell-
off in global stocks the previous day.  In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous 
session, the major averages lost about 3 percent each to post their third-worst drop this year, as signs of further 
European Markets Turn Positive; Ashtead Climbs
weakness in China reignited investors' concerns about the global economy.  In the commodity space, crude for 
October delivery fell $0.98 to $44.43 per barrel, while December gold advanced $1.2 to $1138.6 a troy ounce.      
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
UK Market Slightly Up, Ashtead Climbs After Results
UK Market Slightly Up, Ashtead Climbs After Results
RTT News (United States)
September 2, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 369 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market advanced fractionally on Wednesday afternoon, even as global growth worries 
continued. The sentiment was partly due to bargain-hunting, following steep losses in the previous session after 
China's faltering demand bruised metal and mining stocks.
On a light day for economic news, Eurozone's producer prices declined at a stable rate in July, in line with 
expectations, Eurostat said. The producer price index fell 2.1 percent year-over-year in July, the same rate of 
decrease as in the previous month.
British construction activity growth improved less-than-expected in August, survey results from the Chartered 
Institute of Procurement and Supply and Markit Economics revealed.
The seasonally adjusted Markit/CIPS UK Construction Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 57.3 from 57.1 in July. 
Economists had forecast a score of 57.5.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks added 0.28 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which 
includes some major U.K. companies, was unchanged.
The FTSE 100 index added marginally.
Ashtead group climbed 5.6 percent, after reporting first-quarter results.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals added 3.6 percent and 3i group climbed 3.1 percent.
Ryanair gained more than 2 percent after reporting growth in traffic and load factor for August.
Antofagasta and BHP Billiton gained 3.1 percent and 3 percent, respectively. Meanwhile, Glencore dropped 2.6 
percent.
Other major markets in the region also rose.
Across Asia/Pacific, markets steadied as Chinese stocks rebounded from an earlier sharp sell-off and futures on the 
Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index rebounded after a bruising sell-off in global 
stocks the previous day.
UK Market Slightly Up, Ashtead Climbs After Results
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the major averages lost about 3 
percent each to post their third-worst drop this year, as signs of further weakness in China reignited investors' 
concerns about the global economy.
In the commodity space, crude for October delivery fell $1.04 to $44.37 per barrel, while December gold advanced 
$0.5 to $1140.3 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Finished Mostly Higher After Yesterday's Sell-Off
European Markets Finished Mostly Higher After Yesterday's Sell-Off
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 2, 2015 Wednesday 6:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 700 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - The majority of the European markets ended Wednesday's session to the upside, 
following the sharp declines of the previous session. Concerns over China dominated the headlines yesterday, after 
the nation's manufacturing data came in weaker than expected.  Gains in Europe began to erode in late trade, due 
to weakness in energy stocks. Crude oil prices accelerated to the downside after a U.S. government report showed 
that U.S. crude oil inventories increased by much more than expected. 
 Early gains were fueled by bargain hunting, following Tuesday's sharp sell-off. U.S. private sector employment data 
was also viewed positively ahead of Friday's jobs report. Investors will now shift their focus to tomorrow's meeting of 
the European Central Bank.  The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased by 0.32 percent, while 
the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, added 0.38 percent.   The DAX of 
Germany climbed by 0.32 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose by 0.30 percent. The FTSE of the U.K. gained 
0.41 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.06 percent.  In Frankfurt, Commercial vehicles maker 
MAN SE finished up by 0.47 percent. The company said its board decided to apply for cancellation of the listing of 
the shares in the Prime Standard and transfer to a General Standard listing.   RWE declined by 1.18 percent and 
E.ON lost 0.87 percent.  In Paris, Alstom gained 2.26 percent on reports that General Electric Co. is poised to win 
approval in Europe for its purchase of the speed-train maker's energy business shortly.  Vivendi rose by 0.25 
percent. The media company reportedly increased its stake in French video platform Dailymotion, now controlling 
90 percent of its holding.  In London, Ashtead Group surged by 7.74 percent, after reporting first-quarter results.  
Ryanair climbed by 3.30 percent, after reporting growth in traffic and load factor for August.  Glencore sank by 8.01 
percent after the company has opted to pay back $350 million in bonds next month.  ARM Holdings finished higher 
by 0.88 percent. JPMorgan upgraded its rating on the stock to 'Neutral' from 'Underweight.'  Merlin Entertainments 
rose by 1.30 percent, after UBS upgraded its rating to 'Buy' from 'Neutral.'  Hikma Pharmaceuticals gained 4.36 
percent, after Barclays increased its price target on the stock.  Telefonica dropped by 2.37 percent in Madrid. RBC 
Capital downgraded its rating on the stock to 'Underperform' from 'Outperform.'  Eurozone's producer prices 
declined at a stable rate in July, in line with expectations, figures from Eurostat showed Wednesday. The producer 
price index fell 2.1 percent year-over-year in July, the same rate of decrease as in the previous month, revised 
down from the 2.2 percent drop reported earlier.  British construction sector sustained its robust growth in August, 
European Markets Finished Mostly Higher After Yesterday's Sell-Off
albeit at a slower pace, with continued boost from the housing sector and new impetus from the commercial sector. 
The seasonally adjusted Markit/CIPS UK Construction Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 57.3 from 57.1 in July, 
survey results from the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply and Markit Economics revealed Wednesday. 
Economists had forecast a higher score of 57.5.  Employment in the U.S. private sector saw a notable increase in 
the month of August, according to a report released by payroll processor ADP on Wednesday, although the pace of 
job growth fell short of economist estimates.  ADP said private sector employment climbed by 190,000 jobs in 
August following a downwardly revised increase of 177,000 jobs in July. Economists had expected employment to 
jump by about 210,000 jobs compared to the increase of 185,000 jobs originally reported for the previous month.  
Labor productivity in the U.S. jumped by much more than previously estimated in the second quarter, the Labor 
Department revealed in a report on Wednesday.  The report said labor productivity surged up by 3.3 percent in the 
second quarter, reflecting a notable upward revision from the previously reported 1.3 percent growth. Economists 
had expected the pace of growth to be upwardly revised to 2.8 percent.      
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Turn Positive; Ashtead Climbs
European Markets Turn Positive; Ashtead Climbs
RTT News (United States)
September 2, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 527 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets turned positive on Wednesday afternoon, even as global growth worries 
continued. The sentiment was partly due to bargain-hunting, following steep losses in the previous session after 
China's faltering demand bruised metal and mining stocks.
On a light day for economic news, Eurozone's producer prices declined at a stable rate in July, in line with 
expectations, Eurostat said.The producer price index fell 2.1 percent year-over-year in July, the same rate of 
decrease as in the previous month.
British construction activity growth improved less-than-expected in August, survey results from the Chartered 
Institute of Procurement and Supply and Markit Economics revealed.
The seasonally adjusted Markit/CIPS UK Construction Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 57.3 from 57.1 in July. 
Economists had forecast a score of 57.5.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks added 0.28 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which 
includes some major U.K. companies, was unchanged.
The German DAX, the French CAC 40, the U.K.'s FTSE 100 and Switzerland's SMI were modestly higher.
In Frankfurt, Deutsche Boerse climbed 1.5 percent. Drugmaker Merck and Infineon technologies added 1.4 percent 
each.
Meanwhile, utility E.ON fell 2.1 percent and peer RWE lost 1.5 percent.
Commercial vehicles maker MAN SE said its board decided to apply for cancellation of the listing of the shares in 
the Prime Standard and transfer to a General Standard listing. The stock is down modestly.
In Paris, Alstom added around 2 percent amid report that General Electric Co. is poised to win approval in Europe 
for its purchase of the speed-train maker's energy business shortly.
Hotel group Accor gained 1.3 percent. Kering and Sanofi added moderately.
Car parts maker Valeo declined 1.7 percent. Bouygues and Safran dropped 1.6 percent and 1.4 percent, 
respectively.
European Markets Turn Positive; Ashtead Climbs
Vivendi was up 0.6 percent. The media company reportedly increased its stake in French video platform 
Dailymotion, now controlling 90 percent of its holding.
In London, Ashtead group climbed 5.6 percent, after reporting first-quarter results.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals added 3.6 percent and 3i group climbed 3.1 percent.
Ryanair gained more than 2 percent after reporting growth in traffic and load factor for August.
Antofagasta and BHP Billiton gained 3.1 percent and 3 percent, respectively. Meanwhile, Glencore dropped 2.6 
percent.
Across Asia/Pacific, markets steadied as Chinese stocks rebounded from an earlier sharp sell-off and futures on the 
Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index rebounded after a bruising sell-off in global 
stocks the previous day.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the major averages lost about 3 
percent each to post their third-worst drop this year, as signs of further weakness in China reignited investors' 
concerns about the global economy.
In the commodity space, crude for October delivery fell $0.98 to $44.43 per barrel, while December gold advanced 
$1.2 to $1138.6 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Finished Mostly Higher After Yesterday's Sell-Off
European Markets Finished Mostly Higher After Yesterday's Sell-Off
RTT News (United States)
September 2, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 707 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The majority of the European markets ended Wednesday's session to the upside, following the sharp 
declines of the previous session. Concerns over China dominated the headlines yesterday, after the nation's 
manufacturing data came in weaker than expected.
Gains in Europe began to erode in late trade, due to weakness in energy stocks. Crude oil prices accelerated to the 
downside after a U.S. government report showed that U.S. crude oil inventories increased by much more than 
expected.
Early gains were fueled by bargain hunting, following Tuesday's sharp sell-off. U.S. private sector employment data 
was also viewed positively ahead of Friday's jobs report. Investors will now shift their focus to tomorrow's meeting of 
the European Central Bank.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased by 0.32 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 0.38 percent.
The DAX of Germany climbed by 0.32 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose by 0.30 percent. The FTSE of the 
U.K. gained 0.41 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.06 percent.
In Frankfurt, Commercial vehicles maker MAN SE finished up by 0.47 percent. The company said its board decided 
to apply for cancellation of the listing of the shares in the Prime Standard and transfer to a General Standard listing.
RWE declined by 1.18 percent and E.ON lost 0.87 percent.
In Paris, Alstom gained 2.26 percent on reports that General Electric Co. is poised to win approval in Europe for its 
purchase of the speed-train maker's energy business shortly.
Vivendi rose by 0.25 percent. The media company reportedly increased its stake in French video platform 
Dailymotion, now controlling 90 percent of its holding.
In London, Ashtead Group surged by 7.74 percent, after reporting first-quarter results.
Ryanair climbed by 3.30 percent, after reporting growth in traffic and load factor for August.
Glencore sank by 8.01 percent after the company has opted to pay back $350 million in bonds next month.
European Markets Finished Mostly Higher After Yesterday's Sell-Off
ARM Holdings finished higher by 0.88 percent. JPMorgan upgraded its rating on the stock to "Neutral" from 
"Underweight."
Merlin Entertainments rose by 1.30 percent, after UBS upgraded its rating to "Buy" from "Neutral."
Hikma Pharmaceuticals gained 4.36 percent, after Barclays increased its price target on the stock.
Telefonica dropped by 2.37 percent in Madrid. RBC Capital downgraded its rating on the stock to "Underperform" 
from "Outperform."
Eurozone's producer prices declined at a stable rate in July, in line with expectations, figures from Eurostat showed 
Wednesday. The producer price index fell 2.1 percent year-over-year in July, the same rate of decrease as in the 
previous month, revised down from the 2.2 percent drop reported earlier.
British construction sector sustained its robust growth in August, albeit at a slower pace, with continued boost from 
the housing sector and new impetus from the commercial sector. The seasonally adjusted Markit/CIPS UK 
Construction Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 57.3 from 57.1 in July, survey results from the Chartered Institute 
of Procurement and Supply and Markit Economics revealed Wednesday. Economists had forecast a higher score of 
57.5.
Employment in the U.S. private sector saw a notable increase in the month of August, according to a report 
released by payroll processor ADP on Wednesday, although the pace of job growth fell short of economist 
estimates.
ADP said private sector employment climbed by 190,000 jobs in August following a downwardly revised increase of 
177,000 jobs in July. Economists had expected employment to jump by about 210,000 jobs compared to the 
increase of 185,000 jobs originally reported for the previous month.
Labor productivity in the U.S. jumped by much more than previously estimated in the second quarter, the Labor 
Department revealed in a report on Wednesday.
The report said labor productivity surged up by 3.3 percent in the second quarter, reflecting a notable upward 
revision from the previously reported 1.3 percent growth. Economists had expected the pace of growth to be 
upwardly revised to 2.8 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair traffic grows 10% to 10.4m customers Ryanair traffic...
Ryanair traffic grows 10% to 10.4m customers; Ryanair traffic...
Business World (Digest)
September 2, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 103 words
Highlight: Ryanair have released their traffic statistics for August which show that traffic grew 10% to 10.4m 
customers and that load factor rose 2% points to 95%.
Body
Ryanair have released their traffic statistics for August which show that traffic grew 10% to 10.4m customers and 
that load factor rose 2% points to 95%.
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair's August traffic grew by 10% to 10.4m customers, while our load factor 
jumped 2% points to 95%.
"These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience programme, which continues to deliver 
stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our biggest ever summer schedule."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 7, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair August Traffic, Load Factor Rise
Ryanair August Traffic, Load Factor Rise
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
September 2, 2015 Wednesday 9:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 183 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced that traffic for the 
month of August 2015 increased 10 percent to 10.4 million customers from 9.4 million customers in the same month 
of prior year.  Load factor for the monthly also improved 2 percentage points to 95 percent from last year's 93 
percent.  Europe's favorite airline noted that the rolling annual traffic to August grew 15 percent to 96.3 million 
customers.  'These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower fares, our stronger forward 
bookings and the continuing success of our 'Always Getting Better' customer experience programme, which 
continues to deliver stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our biggest ever summer schedule,' Chief 
Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs said.  Looking ahead, Ryanair said customers can look forward to more service 
enhancements in the autumn, as it continues Year 2 of its AGB programme, which include a new car hire service, a 
new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms, and improved inflight menus.      
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair August Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
Ryanair August Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
September 2, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 196 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced that traffic for the month of 
August 2015 increased 10 percent to 10.4 million customers from 9.4 million customers in the same month of prior 
year.
Load factor for the monthly also improved 2 percentage points to 95 percent from last year's 93 percent.
Europe's favorite airline noted that the rolling annual traffic to August grew 15 percent to 96.3 million customers.
"These record monthly numbers and load factors are due to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience programme, which continues to deliver 
stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our biggest ever summer schedule," Chief Marketing Officer 
Kenny Jacobs said.
Looking ahead, Ryanair said customers can look forward to more service enhancements in the autumn, as it 
continues Year 2 of its AGB programme, which include a new car hire service, a new website, new app, new cabin 
interiors, new crew uniforms, and improved inflight menus.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
IAG completes Aer Lingus acquisition
IAG completes Aer Lingus acquisition
AirFinance Journal
September 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND,SPAIN,UK
Length: 219 words
Highlight: British-Spanish airline conglomerate pays approximately $1.55 billion for Irish flag carrier.
Body
International Airlines Group (IAG) has completed the acquisition of Aer Lingus, the Irish flag carrier.
The offer for 529,779,029 Aer Lingus shares, representing 98.05% of the existing issue share capital of the airline, 
was accepted on September 1.
Airfinance Journalunderstands that the remaining shares will be acquired as a result of a "squeeze out" - a 
compulsory acquisition of stakes from a small group of shareholders as a result of IAG acquiring over 90% of the 
shares in Aer Lingus.
IAG offered approximately â,¬1.36 billion ($1.55 billion) for Aer Lingus on January 27 2015. It valued each Aer 
Lingus share at â,¬2.55 ($2.90), comprising of a cash offer of â,¬2.50 and a dividend of â,¬0.05 per share.
In late May,the Irish government agreed to sell its shares in Aer Lingus to IAG.
In July, the European Commission cleared the $1.55 billion sale of Aer Lingus to IAG.    Speaking to local media, 
Irish Minister for Transport Paschal Donohoe said that the money the government gets from selling its stake in Aer 
Lingus will be used to fund infrastructure projects across the state. The Irish government previously had a 25.11% 
stake in the airline while Ryanair owned a 29.8% stake.
To see all of Aer Lingus' and IAG's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: September 21, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair : We have no interest in flying transatlantic
Ryanair: We have no interest in flying transatlantic
AirFinance Journal
September 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 184 words
Highlight: Irish carrier's chairman contradicts comments from CEO Michael O'Leary.
Body
The chairman of Irish carrier Ryanair says that his airline does not intend to fly transatlantic services, according to 
local media reports.
"We have no interest in flying transatlantic," Ryanair chairman David Bonderman told shareholders at the airline's 
annual general meeting at Dublin Airport yesterday.
Borderman's comments were contrary to Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary's, who previously hinted that the carrier 
was looking at operating low-cost transatlantic flights.
In March 2015, a spokesperson for the carrier confirmed it was talking to manufacturers about acquiring long-haul 
aircraft. This was quashed the next day by a statement released by the airline.
The Irish airline also announced that it intends to return â,¬398m ($443.66m) in proceeds from the sale of its 29.8% 
stake inAer Lingus to shareholders before the end of 2015. Ryanair agreed to sell its Aer Lingus shares to IAG at 
the end of August, paving the way for IAG to acquire former State-owned carrier.
To see all of Aer Lingus' and Ryanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: October 12, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
August 30, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 699 words
Body
**Profits jump at Grafton**
Building materials group Grafton Group has announced a 26 per cent rise in first-half pre-tax profit to £57.9 million.
The company, which owns the Woodies chain of DIY stores, said revenue rose by 7 per cent to £1.08 billion in the 
first six months as group operating profit increased by 21 per cent to £61.2 million.
Grafton reported continued progress in its Irish business with strong profit growth in the merchanting business as 
the economy rebounds.
Meanwhile, Grafton Group announced last week that Paul Hampden Smith had been appointed as a non-executive 
director. The chartered accountant was group finance director of Travis Perkins from 1996 until his retirement in 
February 2013.
..........................
**Net loss narrows for Kenmare**
Kenmare Resources has reported a first-half net loss of $27.9 million, down from $31.8 million a year earlier, 
despite a decline in production at its flagship Moma Mine in Mozambique due to power outages.
   The outlook for the rest of the year will be further supported as the national power utility commissions equipment 
will increase grid power capacity and stability,   Kenmare's managing director Michael Carvill said.
..........................
**Irish set up costs hit UTV**
Boardroom Briefing
UTV Media has reported a first-half pre-tax profit of £1 million, down from £10 million a year earlier, reflecting the 
cost of setting up UTV Ireland.
   The challenges of establishing a new television channel are evident in these results, which reflect the significant 
losses incurred by UTV Ireland in its first six months on air,   chairman Richard Huntingford said.
The new Irish station reported turnover of £4.9 million in the first half, but had costs of £12.4 million, resulting in an 
operating loss of £7.5 million.
..........................
**Datalex signals growth ahead**
Airline software firm Datalex has reported revenue of $20.8 million for the first six months of the year, a 3 per cent 
year-on-year increase.
The company said the boost in revenue was thanks to the addition of airlines including Brussels Airlines, China's 
West Air and Edelweiss to its platform this year.
The company said it had added its third customer in China, which    further strengthens our position in this key 
market  .
Profit after tax was down by more than half however, due to amortisation and depreciation costs of $300,000.
   We anticipate continued strong growth in our market over the next five years, as major travel retailers look to 
move beyond traditional e-commerce management, and develop a more sophisticated approach to customer 
engagement, both of which will require significant investment by them in new platform capabilities,   the company 
said.
..........................
**New car hire service for Ryanair**
Ryanair has launched its own car hire service and announced a partnership with CarTrawler. The partnership will 
offer customers a direct connection to more than 1,500 car rental agents in more than 30,000 airport and city 
locations across 174 countries, the airline said in a statement.
The move by Ryanair comes after Hertz ended its exclusive car hire arrangement with the airline in July after a 
dispute over ticket selling arrangements and third-party agents.
Last week also saw the airline announce two new appointments to its board. The airline's former deputy chief 
executive, Howard Millar, and former British Airways pilot John Leahy have joined the board.
..........................
**Revenue up 39 per cent at Kingspan**
Kingspan has reported a 39 per cent increase in revenue for the first six months of the year to EUR 1.24 billion, with 
acquisitions contributing 26 per cent to sales growth.
Kingspan, which has increased its interim dividend by 28 per cent to 8 cent per share, said it was optimistic about 
the outlook for the full year given the reduced levels of economic uncertainty in continental Europe and improving 
levels of building activity in the US and Britain.
   With the backdrop of broader eurozone uncertainty now dwindling, any
Boardroom Briefing
improvement in consumer confidence should give way to a form of gradual and sustained market recovery, 
ultimately reflected on building sites and in our volumes,   the company said.
Load-Date: August 31, 2015
End of Document
Success of Paddy Power Betfair is a sure bet
Success of Paddy Power Betfair is a sure bet
Sunday Business Post
August 30, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 750 words
Body
Cheeky publicity stunts, controversial ads and an uncanny ability to make enormous amounts of money when 
others aren't. That's the reaction of a betting industry executive when asked about Paddy Power last week.
The PR machine didn't need any gimmicks to announce the company's mega-merger with Britain's Betfair. The 
reaction of Paddy Power and Betfair's share price said it all, as both companies stock surged 20 per cent.
The merged business will be worth almost EUR 7 billion and creates the world's biggest online gaming company. 
We tend not to view Paddy Power's rise internationally in the same light as Ryanair, Kerry, CRH or any number of 
overhyped tech start-ups. Yes, it is in the gambling business, but leaving puritanical beliefs aside it has been one of 
the few international Irish success stories.
If news of the merger took many in the industry by surprise, the rationale for this transformative deal is clear. The 
betting world still needs its high street shops, but it is becoming increasingly digital and increasingly global.
It is true that they are not the first to recognise this. Ladbrokes snapped up Dermot Desmond's Betdaq in 2013 for 
EUR 30 million and various other online and traditional bookies are looking at deals - Ladbrokes is currently buying 
British rivals Coral. What makes this transaction stand out is the sheer size and potential.
The companies say it will be the biggest publicly traded gaming group. It is much more than that. It is a coming 
together of the marketing machine that is Paddy Power and the more sophisticated technology and customer base 
of Betfair.
For fixed-odds betting, Paddy Power has been an innovator. Money-back specials, in-running bets and dozens of 
markets have helped change how punters part with their cash. But for all the technology (and it employs a huge 
amount of tech wizards alongside its risk and quant geniuses) it has so far avoided the Betfair route of matching 
punters and offering customers the option of laying bets.
Success of Paddy Power Betfair is a sure bet
The technology behind the Betfair platform beat everything on the track. If you want to back a horse to lose then it is 
the place to go. What was lacking was a chief executive to implement a strategy to win over punters. When Betfair 
raided Paddy Power for Breon Corcoran it found that person and it's been on to a winner ever since, making the 
£10 million signing on bonus he got small change compared to the value of Betfair now.
Battleground
Online, and principally mobile, is now the battleground for punters. Paddy Power revealed last week that 43 per 
cent of its revenues now come from customers using their smartphones and tablets. The marketing prowess of 
Paddy Power allied to the technology developed by Betfair is a powerful combination.
Paddy Power, under former chief executive Patrick Kennedy, has moved out of its traditional Irish and British 
markets, starting with a push into betting and sports mad Australia, and a less successful foray into Europe, with 
Italy continuing to lose money for it. Where Paddy Power has shied away from is the great untapped US betting 
market, which has still to undergo full regulation.
Betfair didn't hold back in the US. It's acquired an interactive betting network, horse racing rights and now has its 
games in some casinos on the East Coast. It generated £20 million of revenue in the three months to the end of 
July, an increase of 42 per cent year on year. It's still early days but the prospect of Paddy Power cracking the US 
market is a mouthwatering prospect.
The terms of the deal indicate a slight win for Paddy Power shareholders. They will own 52 per cent of the merged 
business and get an EUR 80 million dividend (on top of the EUR 392 million they received earlier in the year).
Betfair get the chief executive and finance director jobs - and arguably it is better for Paddy Power that Breon 
Corcoran gets the main role - while Irish business veteran Gary McGann will chair the group.
It's inevitable there will be overlaps in various roles and fears of job losses. And the racing industry now has to deal 
with one more giant company when it comes to sponsorship and funding.
There are hurdles to be jumped before this merger is declared a winner alright.
And its rivals are not standing still. Several of the online betting groups are already negotiating their own mergers. 
William Hill and Ladbrokes will regroup and plan their own strategies.
But given their standalone track records, few would back against a merged Paddy Power and Betfair being a 
success.
Load-Date: August 31, 2015
End of Document
Irish travel agency sees revenue soar by 10 per cent
Irish travel agency sees revenue soar by 10 per cent
Sunday Business Post
August 30, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 236 words
Body
Business is booming for Irish travel agency Club Travel, with its revenues jumping 10 per cent in the year ending 
October 2014.
But while the rise in revenue, from EUR 80 million to EUR 88.2 million, according to recent accounts, boosted gross 
profits by 6 per cent from EUR 7.6 million to EUR 8 million, the company's net profit for the year was down from 
EUR 2.8 million to EUR 2.4 million, the accounts show.
Meanwhile, the company's directors - including founder Liam Lonergan - paid themselves an interim dividend of 
EUR 811,052, although they did not recommend the payment of a final dividend, the accounts note.
Lonergan is a travel industry veteran, having been a founding director of Ryanair. He founded Club Travel more 
than 40 years ago, and Club has in the past been the government's official travel agent.
In 2012, having acted as the Irish government's official travel agent for 13 years, Club Travel lost the contract to 
international travel giant Carlson Wagonlit Travel. However, last year it won a three-year EU tender to manage all 
air, rail, ferry and hotel bookings by the state.
According to the most recently filed set of accounts, the company saw its costs rise during the year from EUR 72.4 
million to EUR 80.1 million. The company's cash pile also grew during the year, rising from EUR 37.1 million in 
2013 to EUR 38.5 million at the end of October 2014.
The Dublin-based firm employs 140 people.
Load-Date: August 31, 2015
End of Document
The Irish academic who became a telecoms entrepreneur
The Irish academic who became a telecoms entrepreneur
Financial Times (London, England)
August 28, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: BUSINESS LIFE; Pg. 12
Length: 637 words
Byline: Vincent Boland
Highlight: Colm Piercy's digital studiesled him to set up Digiweb, writes Vincent Boland
Body
Colm Piercy would like to apologise for not being an internet entrepreneur. Not that he wants to be one, the soft-
spoken Irish telecoms entrepreneur says.
It is just that, as he admits, telecoms is less glamorous than the tech start-up world, which in Ireland has the glitzy 
Web summit , an annual technology showcase in Dublin that is like a rock festival for geeks. And Mr Piercy, a 
former university lecturer, seems perfectly happy with that.
Yet his comments are deceptive, for the business founded by Mr Piercy as a provider of broadband to Irish 
households is morphing into one of Europe's fastest-growing fibre-optic telecoms providers.
He is speaking after stopping off in the basement of Viatel's headquarters on the edge of Dublin to marvel at the 
computing power on display behind lines of sleek metallic black panels. "This is probably as exciting as it gets," 
says the 43-year-old founder and chief executive of the biggest Ireland-based telecoms company, of which most 
Irish people have almost certainly never heard.
Digiweb, of which Mr Piercy is the only shareholder, remains a broadband provider in Ireland. However Viatel, 
which it acquired in 2013, is now a key link in the chain of telecoms networks that connects Europe's financial 
centres.
The Irish academic who became a telecoms entrepreneur
Despite the pace at which Digiweb and Viatel are growing, Mr Piercy remains virtually unknown outside the tight-
knit Irish business community. That is slowly changing, however: he has become a fixture in the republic's rich lists.
He seems taken aback by that. "I used to be an academic, remember," he says. That is a reference to his years as 
one of Ireland's earliest advocates of broadband and technology while he held academic posts at the University of 
Limerick and the Dundalk Institute of Technology. The experience gave him an insight into the possibilities of the 
new digital innovations.
He set up Digiweb as a small internet services provider in 2001, offering telecoms lines that had a bare minimum of 
broadband capacity - but that was all that was available in Ireland at the time. "It's crazy to think that it was just 
2001 - that sounds very recent," he says. "You wouldn't accept that sort of bandwidth now."
No, indeed. In fact, Ireland is now a highly connected economy, although there are still complaints about how 
haphazard the coverage is outside the main cities. Still, two years after it acquired Viatel, a London-based operator 
that owns 8,500km of fibre-optic cables offering voice, data and cloud services, the combined group is sometimes 
spoken of as Ireland's next big success story. Nevertheless, Mr Piercy blushes when mentioned alongside other 
notable Irish entrepreneurs, such as Ryanair's Michael O'Leary.
"If there is an industry that could lend itself to significant integration, it is telecoms," says Mr Piercy, reflecting on the 
prospects for growth for his company.
"The telecoms market is very fluid . . . Companies are merging, integrating and splitting apart." He says such 
activity often leads to opportunities for smaller operators such as Viatel when the big companies make piecemeal 
disposals.
Viatel is investing $125m in expansion over the next two years, targeting Germany in particular, with the aim of 
lifting the group's revenues to $250m by the end of next year, from about $100m.
It is on the western edge of Europe, but Ireland has nevertheless always played a unique role in the international 
telecoms industry - mainly as the landing site for the earliest undersea telegraph cables from the US. That identity 
persists today: earlier this month the latest such cable from Long Island, New York, landed on the west coast of 
Ireland at Killala, County Mayo .
Mr Piercy is sceptical about official attempts to make Ireland into a high-tech paradise, though he adds: "We're 
streets ahead of where lots of other countries are."
Load-Date: August 27, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces new partnership with CarTrawler
Ryanair announces new partnership with CarTrawler
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 27, 2015 Thursday 8:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 318 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has launched Ryanair Car Hire and announced a new partnership with CarTrawler, a 
travel-technology platform and online aggregator of car rental services.
Body
Ryanair's new car hire partnership with CarTrawler offers customers a direct connection to over 1,500 leading and 
independent car rental agents in over 30,000 airport and city locations, across 174 different countries, and the 
launch of Ryanair Car Hire is the latest in a series of improvements under Ryanair's "Always Getting Better" 
programme, with much more to come, including a new personalised website, new interiors and new cabin crew 
uniforms. Ryanair Car Hire will go live on the Ryanair.com website from Tuesday, 1st September 2015. In London, 
Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary said: "Following an extensive tender process, Ryanair is pleased to partner with 
CarTrawler, who offer the best conversion rate in the business, as we launch Ryanair Car Hire, offering the widest 
range and best value car rental service to our 103m customers. This is the latest in a series of customer experience 
improvements under our "Always Getting Better" programme. 
Ryanair customers already enjoy the lowest fares in Europe and our partnership with CarTrawler will guarantee 
them the lowest car hire prices as well, every time they fly with us." CarTrawler CEO, Mike McGearty said: "Ryanair 
is at the forefront of online travel retailing. In CarTrawler, they have chosen a car rental partner with the scale, 
expertise and technology platform that will help them to deliver on their promise of "Always Getting Better". This 
new partnership is a natural fit between two companies that are trailblazers in their respective fields; Ryanair has 
transformed air travel while CarTrawler continues to deliver innovative ground transportation solutions to airlines 
and online travel retailers all over the world. We look forward to providing Ryanair customers with an enhanced car 
rental experience while delivering the best possible return for Ryanair and its investors through our scientific 
approach to car rental retailing."
Load-Date: September 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launch new car hire service Ryanair launch ...
Ryanair launch new car hire service; Ryanair launch ...
Business World (Digest)
August 25, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 203 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today launched Ryanair Car Hire and announced a new partnership with CarTrawler, a 
leading travel-technology platform and online aggregator of car rental services.
Body
Ryanair have today launched Ryanair Car Hire and announced a new partnership with CarTrawler, a leading travel-
technology platform and online aggregator of car rental services.
The new partnership offers customers a direct connection to over 1,500 leading and independent car rental agents 
in over 30,000 airport and city locations, across 174 different countries.
Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary said, "Following an extensive tender process, Ryanair is pleased to partner with 
CarTrawler, who offer the best conversion rate in the business, as we launch Ryanair Car Hire, offering the widest 
range and best value car rental service to our 103m customers."
CarTrawler CEO, Mike McGearty added, "This new partnership is a natural fit between two companies that are 
trailblazers in their respective fields; Ryanair has transformed air travel while CarTrawler continues to deliver 
innovative ground transportation solutions to airlines and online travel retailers all over the world. "We look forward 
to providing Ryanair customers with an enhanced car rental experience while delivering the best possible return for 
Ryanair and its investors through our scientific approach to car rental retailing." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 28, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Launches Car Hire; Partners With CarTrawler
Ryanair Launches Car Hire; Partners With CarTrawler
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 25, 2015 Tuesday 12:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 79 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced it has launched Ryanair Car Hire, effective 1st 
September 2015, as the latest in a series of improvements under Ryanair's 'Always Getting Better' programme.  
The company also announced a new partnership with CarTrawler, a leading travel-technology platform and online 
aggregator of car rental services, allowing Ryanair customers to book the widest range of cars at the best prices on 
the Ryanair.com website.      
Load-Date: August 25, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Launches Car Hire; Partners With CarTrawler - Quick Facts
Ryanair Launches Car Hire; Partners With CarTrawler - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
August 25, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 93 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced it has launched Ryanair Car Hire, effective 1st September 2015, 
as the latest in a series of improvements under Ryanair's "Always Getting Better" programme.
The company also announced a new partnership with CarTrawler, a leading travel-technology platform and online 
aggregator of car rental services, allowing Ryanair customers to book the widest range of cars at the best prices on 
the Ryanair.com website.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: August 25, 2015
End of Document
Vodafone Ireland to invest 7m in new data centre services Vodafone Irelan...
Vodafone Ireland to invest 7m in new data centre services; Vodafone Irelan...
Business World (Digest)
August 24, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 221 words
Highlight: It was announced today that Vodafone Ireland will invest E7million to provide new data centre services 
for their business and public sector customers in Ireland, as part of the expansion of its Cloud & Hosting business 
across Europe.
Body
It was announced today that Vodafone Ireland will invest E7million to provide new data centre services for their 
business and public sector customers in Ireland, as part of the expansion of its Cloud & Hosting business across 
Europe.
This expansion brings Vodafone Ireland's investment to date to almost E25 million over the last number of years in 
expanding its total communications capabilities for business customers.
This new development will enable customers to securely outsource their full IT hardware resources and store large 
volumes of data and software applications with Vodafone, in either dedicated or shared infrastructure environments. 
The data centre services will be available to customers from the end of October 2015.
Enterprise Director at Vodafone Ireland, Anne Sheehan said, "We are very excited to expand our business division 
into cloud and hosting services for large companies and public sector clients. This further consolidates our position 
as Ireland's Total Communications provider for enterprise. "Our customers such as Ryanair are increasingly moving 
their critical IT services to the cloud, and as a result of this announcement today, Vodafone Ireland can now offer 
our business customers the ability to host their IT services in Vodafone's secure data centre facilities." Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 28, 2015
End of Document
Wizz Air builds on a steady ascent to fill regional gap Interview: József Váradi
Wizz Air builds on a steady ascent to fill regional gap; Interview: József 
Váradi
Financial Times (London, England)
August 24, 2015 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 18
Length: 546 words
Byline: Andrew Byrne in Budapest
Body
József Váradi , Wizz Air's unexcitable chief executive, wants the performance of central and eastern Europe's 
largest airline to speak for itself.
"No Michael O'Leary stuff," he once told a press handler; distancing himself from the headline-grabbing style of the 
colourful chief executive of Ryanair, Wizz Air's formidable rival. Instead, Mr Váradi, who has led Wizz Air since its 
launch in Budapest in 2003, describes with a focused intensity the carrier's rise from a Hungarian upstart to a 
significant regional airline; based on an ultra-low cost offering to thousands of workers and business travellers 
moving from Europe's east to west.
His understated approach appears to be working.
The Hungarian airline listed on the London Stock Exchange in February and last week its shares rose to their 
highest level, peaking at £18.82 - 64 per cent higher than the original £11.50 listing price.
Adjusted operating profit for the year to March rose by almost two-thirds to EUR170.1m - and strong growth 
continued in the first quarter. Last month the airline reported annual passenger growth of 20 per cent.
Wizz Air builds on a steady ascent to fill regional gap Interview: József Váradi
Wizz Air, which has its headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, competes with a number of midsized European 
airlines, including Vueling and Norwegian Air. But its core market of central and eastern Europe remains an under-
penetrated one of 500m consumers, where its main competition is low-cost carrier Ryanair.
"This is a market with limited disposable income so the best-placed airlines to tackle this market are the ultra-low 
cost carriers," says Mr Váradi, from Wizz Air's office at Budapest airport's disused Terminal One complex.
"With the cost base we have and our overall efficiency it's going to be a long time before we can say we are done 
expanding in eastern Europe."
Ryanair far eclipses Wizz Air in size. Wizz carried 17.6m passengers in the year to July, compared with Ryanair's 
95.3m passengers.
But Wizz is targeting annual double-digit increases in passenger numbers for the next five to six years, as eastern 
European incomes and therefore appetite for travel increase, while legacy carriers such as Poland's LOT and 
Romania's Tarom, struggle to compete with their low-cost rivals.
But with rapid growth comes strains: "This business keeps growing at a rate of 15-20 per cent; that's a challenge in 
itself," says Mr Váradi. Increasing competition to attract pilots has forced the airline to raise wages for captains and 
first officers by 30 per cent this year. The company has launched a training scheme it hopes will guarantee a steady 
stream of pilots in future.
The chief executive claims costs will tighten further as its Airbus A321 jets start arriving in the fleet from November. 
In June the group signed an order for 110 Airbus A321 neo aircraft, on a sale and leaseback basis.
By delivering greater capacity and fuel efficiency, Mr Váradi says the new plane will be a "game changer".
"That aircraft is going to deliver somewhere around a 10 per cent lower unit cost compared to our current aircraft . . 
. it is simply going to create a different level of competitiveness and cost-performance; it's going to be a step-
change."
Analysts say Wizz Air's cost efficiency claims are credible and see the two ultra-low cost carriers continuing to 
expand in the region.
Load-Date: August 23, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
August 23, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 598 words
Body
Baked goods group Aryzta, which owns the Cuisine de France brand, has completed the acquisition of a 49 per 
cent stake in French food company Picard, which specialises in frozen food.
The EUR 446.6 million deal was announced earlier this year, but was subject to regulatory approval.
Under the terms of the agreement, Aryzta will be able to acquire the remaining 51 per cent stake of Picard in three 
to five years.
The deal was funded largely through Aryzta's sale of its stake in Origin Enterprises and its Carroll Cuisine unit.
A trading statement published in June by the Swiss-Irish food company pointed to a 2.3 per cent dip in underlying 
revenue growth.
However, total revenue grew by 13.2 per cent in the third quarter to EUR 973.2 million, helped by the impact of 
currency fluctuations.
**Change at the top at Permanent TSB**
Permanent TSB announced last week that the bank's chief financial officer Glen Lucken will leave his position later 
this year.
The bank said in a statement that Lucken was stepping down to return to Britain for family reasons and to pursue 
other interests.
Permanent TSB will begin to look for a replacement immediately.
In the same statement, the bank also flagged that its group legal counsel Andrew Walsh will    assume a wider brief  
, and will become part of the group executive committee.
Boardroom Briefing
**Origin buys Polish firm for EUR 22.4m**
Irish agri-services group Origin Enterprises has said that it will buy Polish firm Kazgod for EUR 22.4 million.
Origin will pay an initial EUR 20.3 million for the company, and the remaining EUR 2.1 million will be deferred for 
three years.
Kazgod produces animal feed and fertilisers. The company employs 200 people and serves 2,600 customers in 
Poland.
The deal must still be approved by Poland's competition authority, but will likely be completed by the end of the 
year, Origin said in a statement.
Goodbody estimated that the acquisition would double the scale of Origin's presence in Poland in terms of sales 
and also market share.    We view this acquisition as an excellent strategic fit for Origin in the region,   Goodbody 
noted.
**Shareholders seal Aer Lingus deal**
Aer Lingus is set to become part of British Airways' owner IAG after more than 95 per cent of the company's 
shareholders voted in favour of the EUR 1.4 billion takeover.
The acceptance of the offer was confirmed in a statement to the stock exchange explaining that with Ryanair's 
acceptance, all the conditions of the bid had been met.
IAG said it plans to apply to have Aer Lingus shares delisted from the Irish Stock Exchange in September.
Aer Lingus will not be officially owned by IAG until shareholders are paid and the company has been delisted from 
the Dublin and London stock exchanges.
**C&C gives notice of results**
Drinks giant C&C, the owner of the Bulmers cider brand, has announced that it will publish its financial results for 
the six months to the end of August on October 28.
In a trading statement issued last month, the company said that trading conditions in the first quarter were mixed, 
as its core markets of Ireland and Scotland were hit by unseasonably cold and wet weather, particularly during the 
month of May.
**The week ahead**
A good bit happening in the coming days. First up, Kingspan will publish its half-year results tomorrow.
Results from insurer FBD, with interim chief executive Fiona Muldoon at the helm, will be closely watched on 
Tuesday.
Wednesday will bring interim results from Paddy Power, while Thursday will see CRH, IFG and Irish Continental 
Group publish interim results.
UTV Media will publish interim results on Friday.
Load-Date: August 25, 2015
End of Document
Saturday Papers: Global stocks tumble after weak Chinese data
Saturday Papers: Global stocks tumble after weak Chinese data
Citywire
August 22, 2015 Saturday 4:19 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 746 words
Body
Top stories Financial Times: Stock markets in the US, Europe and Asia tumbled on Friday after lacklustre Chinese 
data fuelled concerns about the impact of China's slowdown on the global economy. The Daily Telegraph: Swiss 
drugs maker Novartis has bought the rights to a medication that could treat multiple sclerosis from British 
pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline (Amsterdam: GO8.AS - news) in a deal worth up to $1 billion (£637 million). 
The Daily Telegraph: Uber plans to float on the stock market within the next 18 to 24 months as its bookings are 
projected to increase almost fourfold to break through $10 billion this year, according to a leaked presentation 
intended for investors. Financial Times: The collapse in oil prices has claimed a big scalp in the Australian 
resources industry with the resignation of David Knox, the chief executive of Santos, after he revealed a slump in 
first-half profits and flagged asset sales on Friday. Financial Times: A whistleblower provided evidence that helped 
US authorities reopen an investigation into Standard Chartered over possible sanctions violations, following its 2012 
settlement on similar allegations, according to people familiar with the probe. 
Financial Times: Online video networks are receiving an influx of capital from European investors as the companies 
behind some of the most popular content on YouTube seek to reach bigger global audiences. The Guardian: A 
record month for income tax receipts helped the government achieve its first July surplus on the public finances for 
three years, according to official figures. Business and economics The Guardian: Spire Healthcare, the independent 
hospital group, has slumped 13% after it warned of a slowdown in business for the National Health Service and cut 
growth forecasts. The Independent: Fast Retailing, the Japanese mega retailer that owns Uniqlo, Theory, and J 
Brand, is testing out a plan to offer 10,000 full-time employees in its Japanese stores the option of a four-day work 
week. Daily Mail: Figures for last month revealed that exports of Swiss watches such as Tag Heuer, Rolex and 
Breitling plunged 9.3% year on year to £1.26 billion due to weakening demand from Chinese tourists shopping in 
Hong Kong and South Korea. Daily Mail: Air passengers scored a major victory today as a judge ruled that budget 
airline Ryanair's attempts to slash the time limit for passengers claiming compensation for delayed flights 'fall foul' 
of European law; lawyers estimate it could open the floodgates to 2.66 million Ryanair passengers claiming around 
£610 million in compensation, with claims against other airlines likely to follow. Financial Times: Turkey's president 
Recep Tayyip Erdogan has signalled he will call snap elections for 1 November after the country's main political 
parties failed to agree a coalition government. Financial Times: The eurozone's recovery strengthened a little this 
month as the weaker euro led to a rise in new export orders for the region's businesses, according to an influential 
poll of the region's purchasing managers. Financial Times: Irresponsible mobile phone use is among the more 
speculative theories insurance executives have put forward in recent days to explain a surge in UK car accident 
claims to about £12 billion a year. Financial Times: Shares in Aberdeen Asset Management fell nearly 4% on Friday 
as worries grew over the impact of China's collapsing equity market on the Asia-focused investment group. The 
Saturday Papers: Global stocks tumble after weak Chinese data
Daily Telegraph: More than 1,000 companies have joined Airbnb's new program allowing business travelers to use 
the peer-to-peer-lodging service, the firm said. The Daily Telegraph: Tech giant Apple raised A$2.25 billion (£1 
billion) with a debut Australian debt sale that's the largest bond deal ever Down Under by a non-financial company. 
Share tips, comment and bids Daily Mail: Time is running out for Zurich to make a formal offer for British insurance 
giant RSA; the Swiss firm has until 5pm on Tuesday to table a bid or walk away from the deal under the strict 'put 
up or shut up' rule stipulated by the Takeover Panel. Financial Times (Comment): UK economy weathering EM 
turmoil but clouds gather. The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Opec is being eaten alive and must meet to heal its 
wounds. Financial Times (Lex): UK challenger banks: en garde! Financial Times (Lex): US TV: over the top, under 
the gun. Financial Times (Lex): Vopak: Dutch courage. Financial Times (Lex): China: unfavoured nation.
Load-Date: August 22, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair hit by court ruling on flight delay compensation Travel & leisure
Ryanair hit by court ruling on flight delay compensation; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
August 22, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 13
Length: 437 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair is to appeal against a court decision that might hit the Irish low-cost airline with millions in compensation 
claims for delayed flights.
A test case yesterday at Manchester County Court ruled that the budget carrier could not impose a two-year limit on 
passengers claiming flight delay compensation.
According to estimates by Bott & Co, the law firm representing the two passengers in Goel & Trivedi v Ryanair , the 
decision could benefit about 2.6m Ryanair customers, costing the airline around £610m in compensation.
It follows a Supreme Court ruling last year which clarified that air travellers in England and Wales had six years to 
take a claim to court.
The Goel & Trivedi v Ryanair  case involved two passengers who had sought flight delay compensation more than 
five years after their flight.
However, Ryanair had argued that by accepting the group's terms and conditions, passengers waived their right to 
claim after two years.
The company said it would appeal against the decision, calling it "unnecessary and unreasonable".
Ryanair hit by court ruling on flight delay compensation Travel & leisure
"We note this ruling, which reverses lower court orders that a two-year limit for claims is reasonable," said Ryanair. 
"Since we believe a six-year time limit for submitting such claims is both unnecessary and unreasonable, we have 
instructed our lawyers to immediately appeal this ruling."
Ryanair estimates its potential liability from the ruling to be less than EUR5m.
The ruling comes as the airline, once derided for poor customer service, has been trying to persuade travellers it 
has turned over a new leaf with a revised strategy that allows passengers to take on board an extra small item of 
carry-on baggage.
The company's website has also been overhauled to make it quicker and easier to book tickets.
Under European law, airline passengers are allowed to claim compensation of up to EUR600 if their flight is 
delayed for three hours or more - as long as the delay was not caused by extraordinary circumstances.
Kevin Clarke, flight delay lawyer at Bott & Co, said: "We're delighted that the court has dismissed yet another 
argument put forward by the airlines to restrict passenger rights."
While no other airlines are running the two-year limitation argument, Bott & Co said the majority had a similar 
clause in their terms and conditions. If Ryanair had won the case, other airlines could have followed by putting a 
two-year cap on claims.
Earlier this year, the Civil Aviation Authority issued a penalty against Jet 2 and Wizz Air for applying a two-year limit 
on claims.
Research by consumer group Which? reveals that only about 38 per cent of delayed passengers seek 
compensation.
Load-Date: August 21, 2015
End of Document
European Stocks Seen Subdued On China Worries
European Stocks Seen Subdued On China Worries
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 19, 2015 Wednesday 8:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 615 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - European stocks are set for a cautious open on Wednesday as investors fret over slowing 
demand for commodities from the world's second-largest economy. While China's yuan held mostly steady after last 
week's shock devaluation, the country's stock market continues to tumble, posing a bigger headache for 
policymakers worried about slowing economic growth.  China's Shanghai Composite index is down over 2 percent 
after tumbling more than 6 percent the previous day. Elsewhere, the benchmark indexes in Hong Kong, Japan and 
South Korea are down about 1 percent each on concerns the deflationary pressures of a slowdown in China's 
economy would sap growth globally. 
  The safe-haven yen strengthened against the dollar, reflecting concerns about China's economic outlook and data 
showing slowing export growth in the world's third largest economy.   Crude oil prices resumed their slide in Asian 
deals amid signals OPEC nations will continue pumping crude despite a global glut. Copper prices also remain 
subdued after having crashed below $5,000 a metric ton for the first time since the financial crisis.   Gold held 
largely unchanged ahead of the minutes from the most recent Federal Reserve policy meeting due for publication 
later in the day. The minutes could offer vital clues about whether the Fed will likely make its first interest-rate hike 
in nearly a decade next month.  Besides the Fed minutes, investors await U.S. inflation figures and current account 
data from the euro area later in the day for further direction.   Meanwhile, departing Bank of England policymaker 
David Miles said on Tuesday that interest rates would rise 'pretty soon' and that this would be a reflection of the 
economy's strength rather than anything to worry about.  In corporate news, International Consolidated Airlines 
Group S.A. said that it has received confirmation of the valid acceptance of its offer for Aer Lingus Group Plc in 
respect of all the latter's shares held by the Ryanair Group.  Motorola Solutions Inc. is in advanced talks to acquire 
U.K.-based communication services provider Airwave Solutions, the Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with 
the matter.  UBS Group AG has announced the successful completion of the 2014 exchange offer by which all UBS 
AG shares that remain publicly held will be cancelled and UBS Group AG shares will be delivered as compensation.  
Swiss telecommunication services firm Swisscom reported that its second-quarter 2015 net income rose to 433 
million Swiss francs from 430 million francs last year.   The European markets ended Tuesday's session mostly 
lower as copper and oil prices touched multi-year lows and China's stock-market selloff resumed despite positive 
home-price data and a large cash injection into the country's financial system by its central bank to keep cash from 
European Stocks Seen Subdued On China Worries
fleeing.   Investors also awaited a German parliament vote over a third bailout plan for Greece and the release of 
minutes from the Federal Reserve's July meeting for further direction. The German DAX eased 0.2 percent, 
France's CAC 40 index slid 0.3 percent and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 fell 0.4 percent.  U.S. stocks ended a choppy 
session lower overnight in response to weak commodity prices, disappointing earnings results from Wal-Mart and 
another bout of turbulence in China's equity market.   Housing market indicators painted a relatively optimistic 
picture, with housing starts climbing to a near eight-year high in July, while building permits fell 16.3 percent in the 
month following three straight months of hefty increases. The Dow dropped 0.2 percent, the tech-heavy Nasdaq slid 
0.6 percent and the S&P 500 shed 0.3 percent.      
Load-Date: August 19, 2015
End of Document
European Stocks Seen Subdued On China Worries
European Stocks Seen Subdued On China Worries
RTT News (United States)
August 19, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 624 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks are set for a cautious open on Wednesday as investors fret over slowing demand for 
commodities from the world's second-largest economy. While China's yuan held mostly steady after last week's 
shock devaluation, the country's stock market continues to tumble, posing a bigger headache for policymakers 
worried about slowing economic growth.
China's Shanghai Composite index is down over 2 percent after tumbling more than 6 percent the previous day. 
Elsewhere, the benchmark indexes in Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea are down about 1 percent each on 
concerns the deflationary pressures of a slowdown in China's economy would sap growth globally.
The safe-haven yen strengthened against the dollar, reflecting concerns about China's economic outlook and data 
showing slowing export growth in the world's third largest economy.
Crude oil prices resumed their slide in Asian deals amid signals OPEC nations will continue pumping crude despite 
a global glut. Copper prices also remain subdued after having crashed below $5,000 a metric ton for the first time 
since the financial crisis.
Gold held largely unchanged ahead of the minutes from the most recent Federal Reserve policy meeting due for 
publication later in the day. The minutes could offer vital clues about whether the Fed will likely make its first 
interest-rate hike in nearly a decade next month.
Besides the Fed minutes, investors await U.S. inflation figures and current account data from the euro area later in 
the day for further direction.
Meanwhile, departing Bank of England policymaker David Miles said on Tuesday that interest rates would rise 
"pretty soon" and that this would be a reflection of the economy's strength rather than anything to worry about.
In corporate news, International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A. said that it has received confirmation of the valid 
acceptance of its offer for Aer Lingus Group Plc in respect of all the latter's shares held by the Ryanair Group.
Motorola Solutions Inc. is in advanced talks to acquire U.K.-based communication services provider Airwave 
Solutions, the Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the matter.
UBS Group AG has announced the successful completion of the 2014 exchange offer by which all UBS AG shares 
that remain publicly held will be cancelled and UBS Group AG shares will be delivered as compensation.
European Stocks Seen Subdued On China Worries
Swiss telecommunication services firm Swisscom reported that its second-quarter 2015 net income rose to 433 
million Swiss francs from 430 million francs last year.
The European markets ended Tuesday's session mostly lower as copper and oil prices touched multi-year lows and 
China's stock-market selloff resumed despite positive home-price data and a large cash injection into the country's 
financial system by its central bank to keep cash from fleeing.
Investors also awaited a German parliament vote over a third bailout plan for Greece and the release of minutes 
from the Federal Reserve's July meeting for further direction. The German DAX eased 0.2 percent, France's CAC 
40 index slid 0.3 percent and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 fell 0.4 percent.
U.S. stocks ended a choppy session lower overnight in response to weak commodity prices, disappointing earnings 
results from Wal-Mart and another bout of turbulence in China's equity market.
Housing market indicators painted a relatively optimistic picture, with housing starts climbing to a near eight-year 
high in July, while building permits fell 16.3 percent in the month following three straight months of hefty increases. 
The Dow dropped 0.2 percent, the tech-heavy Nasdaq slid 0.6 percent and the S&P 500 shed 0.3 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: August 19, 2015
End of Document
IAG : Aer Lingus Offer Declared Wholly Unconditional
IAG : Aer Lingus Offer Declared Wholly Unconditional
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 19, 2015 Wednesday 3:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 167 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A. (ICAGY.PK, IAG.L) said that it has 
received confirmation of the valid acceptance of its Offer for Aer Lingus Group plc (AERL.L) in respect of all the Aer 
Lingus shares held by the Ryanair Group (RYA.L, RYAAY). Ryanair's acceptance was a condition of the Offer 
which is now wholly unconditional as all the conditions have been satisfied.  Aer Lingus Group will become part of 
International Airlines Group.  As at 1300 (Irish time) on 18 August 2015, AERL Holding Limited, the wholly owned 
subsidiary of International Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., had received valid acceptances of the Offer for 517.49 
million Aer Lingus shares, representing 95.77 per cent of the existing issued share capital of Aer Lingus.   The Offer 
will remain open for acceptance until the final closing date of 1500 (Irish time) on 1 September 2015. Aer Lingus 
shareholders who have not yet accepted the Offer are encouraged to do so without delay.      
Load-Date: August 19, 2015
End of Document
IAG : Aer Lingus Offer Declared Wholly Unconditional
IAG : Aer Lingus Offer Declared Wholly Unconditional
RTT News (United States)
August 18, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 180 words
Body
(RTTNews) - International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A. (ICAGY.PK, IAG.L) said that it has received 
confirmation of the valid acceptance of its Offer for Aer Lingus Group plc (AERL.L) in respect of all the Aer Lingus 
shares held by the Ryanair Group (RYA.L, RYAAY). Ryanair's acceptance was a condition of the Offer which is 
now wholly unconditional as all the conditions have been satisfied.
Aer Lingus Group will become part of International Airlines Group.
As at 1300 (Irish time) on 18 August 2015, AERL Holding Limited, the wholly owned subsidiary of International 
Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., had received valid acceptances of the Offer for 517.49 million Aer Lingus shares, 
representing 95.77 per cent of the existing issued share capital of Aer Lingus.
The Offer will remain open for acceptance until the final closing date of 1500 (Irish time) on 1 September 2015. Aer 
Lingus shareholders who have not yet accepted the Offer are encouraged to do so without delay.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: August 19, 2015
End of Document
Eight clouds on Willie's horizon
Eight clouds on Willie's horizon
Sunday Business Post
August 16, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1562 words
Body
IAG boss Willie Walsh has almost completed his Aer Lingus takeover, with the final hurdle of Ryanair's formal 
acceptance expected to be crossed this week. He has promised abundant growth, but he must face down eight key 
challenges to make Aer Lingus a success.
**1. A management shake-up?**
Aer Lingus management pushed hard for a deal with IAG. But now that it is almost done, they may feel as if the Eye 
of the Dark Lord Sauron from the Lord of the Rings trilogy is falling directly upon them.
As Walsh gazes across the Irish Sea from IAG headquarters, his first challenge is to ensure he has the right team 
around new Aer Lingus chief executive Stephen Kavanagh.
   Walsh will do a deep analysis of management structures at Aer Lingus to see if it is fit for purpose,   said one 
knowledgeable aviation source.    Are current managers best placed to drive this business efficiently in a manner 
that matches his high expectations?
   For a business with only ten million passengers a year, a lot of heavy hitters were brought in in recent years, on 
very big packages. Don't forget, Ryanair carried ten million passengers in July alone with much leaner management 
structures.  
**2. Ryanair**
Ryanair has long been the biggest threat to Aer Lingus, and Walsh's return will not change that, even if IAG 
provides better insulation. Ryanair's recent results illustrated the potential for a difficult price war to welcome Walsh 
back to Dublin.
Eight clouds on Willie's horizon
Ryanair's costs - excluding fuel - remained static despite upgrading its product and targeting expensive capital city 
airports previously left to Aer Lingus. Indeed, the long-time Aer Lingus cash cow route from Dublin to Amsterdam 
may now be in O'Leary's sights.
Worse again, Ryanair's fuel hedging costs will plummet in 2016 compared to 2015, meaning that cost per 
passenger will fall, thus allowing it to slash fares next summer. With numerous new 737s on the way, Aer Lingus 
could face an onslaught from a reinvigorated Ryanair.
**3 . Long-haul competition**
Dublin's massive transatlantic hub potential is key to IAG's Aer Lingus purchase, according to analysts. Exuberant 
rumours amongst Aer Lingus staff suggest Walsh could place 20 long-haul aircraft in Dublin. More measured 
sources predict two new North American routes in 2016.
Nevertheless, competition has rapidly increased, and Aer Lingus will not get it all its own way over the Atlantic. 
Perhaps the most interesting new route at booming Dublin Airport is the Ethiopian Airlines flight from Addis Ababa 
to Dublin and onwards to Los Angeles. It potentially signals a huge challenge for Walsh's Irish long-haul strategy.
As a non-EU carrier, Ethiopian Airlines required    fifth freedom   rights to allow it pick up passengers here for the 
route. The rapidly growing African carrier has diverted other Addis Ababa-bound transatlantic flights to Dublin, 
instead of Rome, for refuelling. Sources believe it could ultimately seek fifth freedom rights from the government on 
these routes too.
That could pave the way for similar moves from other non-EU giants such as Turkish Airlines, Etihad and Emirates, 
which is set to use the huge Airbus A380 on its Dublin-Dubai route. Aer Lingus has long lobbied against widespread 
fifth freedom rights.
Ultimately, the government must decide: will it choose to protect the patch of IAG-owned Aer Lingus, or will it allow 
semi-state DAA to bid aggressively for business from passenger-hungry Gulf giants?
**4 . Feeding the Dublin hub**
If Dublin is to continue developing as a transatlantic hub, Walsh will need to feed in transfer traffic from Britain, 
Europe and beyond.
Currently, this is provided by Stobart-operated Aer Lingus Regional from British airports using turbo prop aircraft. 
Walsh must decide if this needs to be scaled up, or if he is happy with the flexibility the smaller aircraft provide.
Ryanair is reported to have pitched a tempting alternative to IAG whereby it would feed passengers into Dublin, a 
rare hub airport that also houses a main base of a low-cost carrier.
   This could provide huge passenger flows from across Europe, but could be a doom-laden path for Aer Lingus 
Regional and other Aer Lingus short-haul operations,   said an analyst.    A deal with O'Leary would undoubtedly 
come at a very keen price. Walsh could use this as leverage with Aer Lingus unions: match O'Leary's price or lose 
members. His strategy here will decide the future shape of Aer Lingus.  
**5 . Dublin's growing capacity constraints**
IAG's main London Heathrow base faces massive congestion and expansion constraints. Its purchase of Aer 
Lingus is seen as a safety valve to allow continued transatlantic growth, via Ireland's relatively uncongested skies.
But Dublin, too, faces major capacity constraints - and significant IAG-funded growth could rapidly turn this into a 
crisis, according to a number of sources.
Eight clouds on Willie's horizon
Already, early-morning transatlantic arrivals face long waits to access parking stands. Walsh may also find himself 
as a key stakeholder trying to convince politicians and planning authorities of the increasingly urgent need to build a 
second runway.
Terminal capacity, too, could again become an issue, particularly at peak times. Dublin is one of the fastest-growing 
airports in Europe, with 22 new routes so far this year.
The airport appears well on target to this year surpass its 2007 boom-time peak of 23.2 million passengers. With 15 
per cent growth so far this year, IAG's arrival will help push the airport rapidly towards the 32 million planning cap 
originally imposed on Terminals One and Two by An Bord Pleanála.
**6 . Outsourcing by the back door**
When Walsh gave Aer Lingus's unions guarantees on outsourcing and job cuts, he was undoubtedly walking a fine 
line between what he could publicly promise he would not do and what he privately knew he must do.
He has consistently insisted that he is planning for growth and significantly increased employment, particularly for 
pilots and cabin crew. But few understand Aer Lingus's cost structures - and the legacy problems built in to them - 
better than him. His original axe-wielding as Aer Lingus chief executive set the airline on the successful flight path it 
has largely flown ever since.
Yet Walsh knows that neither he nor his predecessors ever really finished the job.
Outsourcing has long been high on the Aer Lingus agenda. Even when successive chief executives failed to 
outsource, they brought it in via the back door through a controversial    leave and return   deal that saw many staff 
accept lower wage structures more closely aligned to competitors.
Nevertheless, about 700 staff remain on higher legacy rates. Walsh will want to tackle this, while operating within 
the parameters of the commitments he has made.
   Walsh showed at Iberia, BA and Vuelling that he is not afraid of a fight and it is hard to imagine that he won't find 
himself at odds with the trade unions one way or another,   said one analyst.
   He will constantly benchmark Aer Lingus against other IAG airlines and against competitors such as Ryanair.
   For example, if you benchmark senior Aer Lingus long-haul pilots against counterparts at Iberia or the Gulf 
carriers, the Aer Lingus guys do very well, both in terms of pay and work practices. That could be a power struggle 
worth watching.  
**7 . The pension problem**
The timing of Walsh's swoop for Aer Lingus said everything about how big an impediment he regarded the airline's 
sick pension fund to be. IAG's first bid came just days after unions and management had hammered out a proposed 
solution to the previously intractable Aer Lingus pension dispute.
Has the pension issue gone away? Probably, even if the company is still struggling to get staff to sign waivers 
agreeing a full and final settlement of the issue, and even if some bitterness remains. But pensioners are expected 
to take legal action in the coming months against the axeing of 10 per cent of their pensions in payment to plug the 
hole.
Should they win, the problem could become a very real one for Walsh, who is himself a deferred Aer Lingus 
pensioner.
**8. Justifying the purchase of Aer Lingus**
Eight clouds on Willie's horizon
Walsh's biggest challenge is to prove to IAG shareholders that buying Aer Lingus is worthwhile. They will judge 
success using very simple metrics and benchmark against other current and future IAG airlines, with both Iberia 
and Vueling already delivering impressive results.
   Aer Lingus consistently posts successful, mid single-digit operating margins,   said Davy aviation analyst Stephen 
Furlong.    But IAG's goal for itself and its individual airlines is 10 to 14 per cent operating margins and 12 per cent 
return on invested capital. Achieving that at Aer Lingus will require revenue and cost synergies.  
For example, Walsh must tackle Aer Lingus's 1960s-era IT system and its procurement structures, while also 
integrating it seamlessly into the huge opportunities presented by IAG's frequent flyer programme, its marketing and 
its transatlantic joint venture with American Airlines. Ultimately, Walsh must oversee and adjudicate huge internal 
competition for access to IAG's balance sheet. BA, Iberia, Vueling - and now Aer Lingus - all compete for resources 
to grow.
Walsh is not known for investment decisions based on nostalgia or patriotism, but he will be a happy man if he can 
justify spending huge money on fleets of shamrock-tailed aircraft in the future.
Load-Date: August 18, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to battle Aer Lingus on Amsterdam route
Ryanair to battle Aer Lingus on Amsterdam route
Sunday Business Post
August 16, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 398 words
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary is set to welcome IAG's Willie Walsh back to Dublin with an all out attack on his most 
profitable route.
The low cost giant has secured nine slots at Amsterdam's Schiphol airport and has earmarked four of them for 
flights to Dublin, it is understood. Ryanair has until the end of this month to make a final decision on whether and 
how it will use the slots at Europe's fifth busiest airport.
The move comes as IAG chief executive Willie Walsh's bid to take over Aer Lingus is expected to jump its final 
hurdle this week with a formal agreement from Ryanair that it will sell its stake in the former national carrier.
But while Ryanair is set to finally clear the way for Walsh's Aer Lingus swoop, the gloves will quickly come off as a 
more business travel oriented Ryanair continues to move in on some of the jewels in Aer Lingus's European 
network.
The Dublin to Amsterdam route has long been regarded as one of, and possibly the most, profitable routes in the 
Aer Lingus network. The airline has heretofore faced no competition here. It achieves very high yields and benefits 
from a lucrative codeshare with KLM, according to aviation sources.
   Dublin would be a natural candidate to connect with Amsterdam, given our continued growth into primary airports 
and our expanded business route network between key European cities. However, no decisions have yet been 
taken,   said a Ryanair spokesman.
Ryanair is also boosting its schedule from Dublin to other key capital city and business airports around Europe. It 
flies to Copenhagen, another lucrative Aer Lingus route from Dublin.
The airline is to up its flights to Madrid from 12 a week to 18 a week, while Barcelona flights will go from two to three 
times a day.
Ryanair to battle Aer Lingus on Amsterdam route
IAG carriers Vueling, Iberia Express and Aer Lingus, when it comes on board, will face off directly with Ryanair on 
Dublin routes to Spain's two main cities.
Italian business travellers to Dublin are also potentially on the Ryanair hit list with sources saying it is currently 
negotiating a deal to fly to one of the two main Milan airports instead of Bergamo, 40km away.
In Germany, Ryanair is already upping its connections from Berlin Schonefeld to Dublin to 12 times a week.
Closer to home, Aer Lingus is to begin flying to Liverpool in October just as Ryanair increases its flights into the 
British city from three to four a day for the winter.
Load-Date: August 18, 2015
End of Document
College Jumps Ahead with new ad campaign
College Jumps Ahead with new ad campaign
Sunday Business Post
August 16, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 736 words
Body
For most third-level institutions, the main advertising campaigns are done and dusted for this year. As first-round 
CAO offers are made to this year's Leaving Cert students tomorrow, their effectiveness will show.
But it is still an important time for marketing at Griffith College, a private, Dublin-based, third-level institution.
While most of its students get their places through the CAO system, it also has an    available places   facility which 
gives an alternative study option to Leaving Cert students who did not get the course they originally wanted.
As a result, the end of August and start of September are an important time for Griffith College to advertise.
Last week, the college launched a new advertising campaign with the message    Jump Ahead  .
Its media spend for the campaign was EUR 100,000. The campaign includes a strong focus on digital channels - 
including mobile, social media, re-targeting, PPC, VOD and key homepage takeovers. In addition, the Jump Ahead 
campaign will feature radio, outdoor and press.
This will be Griffith College's first campaign to spend more than half of its budget online.
   Our latest research showed us that our students are very much engaged in the digital world and they've never 
had more access to information to make up their own minds. We felt that it was time to revisit the branding and 
nuance it,   said Steven Roberts, head of marketing at the college.
In its 41-year history, Griffith College has grown to 7,000 students spread across three campuses in Dublin, 
Limerick and Cork. Former students include outgoing Rose of Tralee Maria Walsh, Newstalk presenter Chris 
Donoghue and former Ryanair deputy chief executive Michael Cawley.
For the past five years, it ran a campaign which was based on the tagline    The Secret is Griffith College   and 
focused on success stories and testimonials from students.
College Jumps Ahead with new ad campaign
Jump Ahead was the first piece of work created by the college's new creative agency, Atomic. Roberts said the 
relationship would be long-term, probably over five years. Its last creative agency was Bloom, which created the 
Secret Is campaign.
   We've consciously moved away from just pushing testimonials, because that approach seems to have become 
the go-to approach for institutions now. When we started out with The Secret Is campaign, it was a relatively new 
approach to take,   Roberts said.
   The above-the-line advertising elements of the campaign will aim to create standout by getting across the 
message in a very clear way how undertaking a course at Griffith will help students to acquire a set of skills that will 
enable them to jump ahead in their career area of choice.  
Its advertising happens in two mains bursts across the year, in September and again in November to January when 
students are thinking about college choices ahead of the first CAO deadline. The November to January campaign is 
worth another EUR 100,000 in media spend.
The Jump Ahead campaign was designed to target Leaving Cert students, parents, guidance counsellors and part-
time and mature students, and direct them to the college's website.
Griffith College launched its new website last year. It was built by Iterate, which previously worked on websites for 
third-level institutions, including the University of Limerick, University College Dublin, and Maynooth University.
   The website is an ongoing journey these days. The days of completing the site and revisiting again in a few years 
are completely gone,   Roberts said.There is an increasing requirement for in-house expertise and skill sets in 
marketing these days because of advances in digital marketing, according to Roberts.
   The era of the generalist marketer has moved on,   he said, adding that areas such as SEO and targeting need 
experts.
Social media is an important part of Griffith College's digital strategy, according to Roberts, who regards Facebook 
as an excellent way to connect with potential students.In July, it even asked past and present students to apply to 
model in its advertising campaign via its Facebook page. It has 19,000 Facebook fans, but Roberts said it was 
focused on engagement rather than likes.
Although they are no longer a significant part of Griffith College's marketing strategy, testimonials still appear on the 
college's website. Ireland rugby stars Sean Cronin and Fergus McFadden are completing BA degree courses in 
Business Studies, and both have posted testimonials.
Load-Date: August 18, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to launch new daily service from London Stansted to Sofia
Ryanair to launch new daily service from London Stansted to Sofia
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 14, 2015 Friday 7:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 177 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that it will launch a new daily service from London Stansted to Sofia, 
Bulgaria, beginning May 2016.
Body
Sofia will be Ryanair's second Bulgarian airport, following Plovdiv (which has a 4 times weekly service to London 
Stansted), and is another key primary airport, as Ryanair continues to expand Europe's largest route network. 
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce a new daily London Stansted to Sofia route beginning 
May 2016, which will go on sale on www.ryanair.com in September. Sofia is another key capital city airport and our 
second in Bulgaria, as we continue to grow Europe's largest route network, with more routes and flights and 
improved schedules. "UK consumers already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service 
and great route choice. Now they can also book their flights even earlier on our improved website and app, carry a 
free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and 
use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than 
just the lowest fares - with much more to come."
Load-Date: August 20, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair in talks on first interlining deals with long-haul carriers Ryanair in talk...
Ryanair in talks on first interlining deals with long-haul carriers; Ryanair in 
talk...
Business World (Digest)
August 11, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 534 words
Highlight: Ryanair is in talks with British Airways owner International Airlines Group and Aer Lingus about providing 
transfer connections for its rivals' long-haul services for the first time in its 30-year history, Chief Executive Michael 
O'Leary told Reuters on M
Body
Ryanair is in talks with British Airways owner International Airlines Group and Aer Lingus about providing transfer 
connections for its rivals' long-haul services for the first time in its 30-year history, Chief Executive Michael O'Leary 
told Reuters on Monday.
The move is a major change for how Europe's largest low-cost carrier operates, which has shunned the interlining 
market due to the costs involved.
"What we see over the next five, 10 years is that we become a feeder for other long-haul airlines," O'Leary said in 
an interview at his office in Dublin.
"The advantage for them is they would get much cheaper short-haul feed than they would from anybody else, but 
what they have to get themselves mentally over is that they would have to take responsibility for missed 
connections." Connecting passengers will be a "reasonably small part" of Ryanair's business, O'Leary said, but low-
cost carriers could feed up to 50 percent of passengers to long-haul carriers flying from Europe within five to 10 
years. Under the proposed system, customers would buy their tickets from the long-haul carrier, who would be 
responsible for checking in the customer, handling their bags and taking responsibility for any missed connections. 
The cost of compensating people for missed connections is one of the reasons Ryanair has avoided the business in 
the past. Ryanair would, however, offer to fly passengers on later flights if the initial Ryanair connection was 
missed. Ryanair has not yet finalised an agreement with Aer Lingus, but O'Leary said it could begin providing 
feeder traffic for its Irish rivals before the end of the year. "I see no reason why it couldn't happen this winter, 
November," he said. O'Leary said Ryanair had also spoken to Portugal's TAP about feeding traffic from Lisbon, and 
Norwegian Air Shuttle and Virgin Atlantic about flights at London's Gatwick. He said he had spoken with IAG "in the 
Ryanair in talks on first interlining deals with long-haul carriers Ryanair in talk...
context if IAG were to do something long-haul out of (London) Stansted," a major hub for Ryanair. A spokeswoman 
for IAG, which does not currently fly from Stansted, said that the airline had not had any "formal" discussions with 
Ryanair on the issue. IAG Chief Executive Willie Walsh last month said that he did not support the building of a new 
runway at London Heathrow, British Airways' home hub which is operating at full capacity, due to the costs 
involved. Aer Lingus is set to become part of IAG later this year once Ryanair formally signs off on the sale of its 30 
percent stake in the Irish carrier. The decision to possibly link up with long-haul carriers is the latest taboo to be 
broken by the Irish carrier, which launched a major customer service overhaul two years ago and introduced its first 
business fare last August. O'Leary said after 12 months Ryanair was very close to meeting its initial target of 2 
percent of all ticket buyers opting for flexible business plus tickets, part of a "conservative" five-year plan to reach 
10 percent. He said it would likely be harder to hit the target of 4 percent after year two, but that the company would 
step up its marketing efforts after its new web site and mobile app launch later this year. (Reuters) Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 14, 2015
End of Document
Michael O'Leary aims to eclipse Booking.com with new website Michael O'Leary...
Michael O'Leary aims to eclipse Booking.com with new website; Michael 
O'Leary...
Business World (Digest)
August 11, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 558 words
Highlight: Ryanair aims to take on the online travel companies with a new website that will offer its 100 million 
annual passengers flight price comparisons, cheap hotel rooms and location-sensitive restaurant discounts, its chief 
executive said.
Body
Ryanair aims to take on the online travel companies with a new website that will offer its 100 million annual 
passengers flight price comparisons, cheap hotel rooms and location-sensitive restaurant discounts, its chief 
executive said.
The overhaul of the Ryanair.com site, being developed by about 200 IT staff hired over the past 18 months, is in 
part a defensive strategy to avoid becoming dependent on third-party sites such as Skyscanner.com and Google 
Flights for ticket sales.
Ryanair's plans contrast with that of Lufthansa, which is also seeking to direct more customers to its own website 
but by introducing a fee for bookings made using the global distribution systems (GDSs) such as Amadeus, Sabre 
and Travelport.
"We want to become the Amazon.com of travel in Europe, with a whole load of additional services: price 
comparison, cut-rate hotels, discounted football tickets, concert tickets," Michael O'Leary told Reuters. "We want to 
be the disruptor that goes out and disrupts the original disruptors," he added. The basic function of the new 
Ryanair.com website will be a fare comparison service that shows the cost of flights from both Ryanair and its 
rivals. O'Leary last month contacted the heads of easyJet, Lufthansa, Air France-KLM and British Airways and 
Iberia owner IAG with an offer to share real-time fare data. But easyJet and AirFrance have already rejected the 
offer and Ryanair is instead considering 'scraping' prices using internet tools to show them on the site without their 
rivals' permission, O'Leary said. Ryanair sees providing price comparisons as essential if it is to avoid becoming 
dependent on third-party websites, like Skyscanner, which O'Leary said failed in an attempt a few years ago to levy 
a charge on Ryanair of 3 euros per booking. Skyscanner makes money through advertising and by charging airlines 
Michael O'Leary aims to eclipse Booking.com with new website Michael O'Leary...
fees for booking referrals. "We need to be careful ... we are very wary not to allow Google to become the avenue by 
which we sell 50, 60, 80 percent of our tickets," he said. Ryanair sells 95 percent of its tickets through its own 
website, but significant volumes are referrals from price comparison sites. Ryanair.com currently sells hotel rooms 
in a partnership with Priceline Group's Booking.com, but O'Leary said that Ryanair wants to become a direct 
distributor of unsold hotel rooms by charging lower levys than rival sites such as Booking.com and Expedia Inc's 
Hotels.com. "We thought ... Why don't we take away the hotel disruptors, the Booking.coms, who the hotels 
generally hate because they charge them 40 percent of their revenue, and sell them for 10 percent?" It is intended 
that the website, which Ryanair says will be launched this autumn, will also provide user-created reviews of hotels, 
restaurants and cities in competition with sites like Tripadvisor, he said. The site will also try to mimic Amazon.com 
by harvesting detailed customer data to push targeted offers by email and smartphone app in real time, including 
location-sensitive offers from shops and restaurants. The app will also offer customers ancillary services such as 
fast-track boarding, allocated seating and extra bags, taking account of the customers past buying habits and any 
specific circumstances such as delayed flights, heavy traffic or long queues at security, he said. (Reuters) Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 14, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair July passenger traffic increases 11%
Ryanair July passenger traffic increases 11%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 10, 2015 Monday 12:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 138 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of July 2015 was 10.14 million 
passengers, an increase of 11%, compared to 9.15 million passengers for July 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of July 2015 was 95%, an increase of four percentage points, compared to 91% for July 
2014. Ryanair chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "Ryanair's July traffic grew by 11% to 10.1m customers, 
while our load factor jumped 4% points to 95%. This is the first time ever that any airline has carried over 10m 
international customers in one calendar month. For example we carried more customers in one month (10.14m in 
July) than Aer Lingus carried in a whole year (9.77m in 2014). "These record customer numbers and highest ever 
load factors are due to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the continuing success of our "Always 
Getting Better" customer experience programme, which continues to deliver stronger than expected traffic and load 
factors on our biggest ever summer schedule."
Load-Date: August 16, 2015
End of Document
Airline Stocks Hit a Bullish Note - Global Week Ahead - Analyst Blog
Airline Stocks Hit a Bullish Note - Global Week Ahead - Analyst Blog
Newstex Blogs
Zacks Investment Research
August 10, 2015 Monday 5:50 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 1106 words
Body
Aug 10, 2015( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Global markets looked 
for a strong open on Monday. Why? Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fischer made a provocative statement to open the 
trading week. 
He commented-- global disinflation "is a factor that bothers us. It is not inevitable, it is not baked in the economies 
abroad, but it is there right now." In light of that, will the Fed hold off on raising rates a bit longer?  Last Friday, 
Zacks consensus poll was evenly split between Sept and Dec rate hikes. This week's key global indicators update 
us on the long-term Eurozone outlook. Is Europe still trapped in weak growth, or has European QE caused a boost? 
On Monday, the Eurozone Sentix indicator came out at 18.5, in line with its prior reading. On Tuesday, Germany's 
ZEQ survey will show financial professionals' optimism. It is likely to be around its long-term average. This is 
consistent with only moderate growth. On Wednesday, Eurozone industrial production could show output rose to a 
+1.7% y/y rate in June. Again, unchanged. On Friday, overall Eurozone Q2 output is likely to be unchanged too. 
The preliminary GDP growth data is projected to show +0.4% in quarterly growth. Q4-14 and Q1-15 recorded the 
same +0.4% GDP growth rate.  In other words, consensus doesn't think Europe's economy has budged. If any 
European macro data surprise this week, that would lift global stocks. Are you a bull and looking for a growth stock 
in Europe? Take a look at Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) Ryanair Holdings (ticker RYAAY[1]). This Irish budget airline 
is in the sweet spot. Air transport benefits from lower oil prices, and the greater spending power of Europe's air 
vacationers. The bullish theme of a strong discretionary spender and weakening oil prices is not limited to the U.S. 
and Europe! In Asia, there are two more strong airline stocks to look into. Two current Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) 
stocks I like are China Eastern Airlines (ticker CEA[2]) and Cathay Pacific Air (ticker CPCAY[3]).  Follow me on 
Twitter @johnblank100 to get my weekly comments on the Global Economy and Global Stocks. Here is the Global 
Week Ahead-- On Monday,in Japan, consumer confidence came in at 40.3, below the prior 41.7 reading. The more 
important Economy Watchers Survey in Japan also came out. It was 51.6, above the prior 51 reading. In Europe, 
the Eurozone Sentix indicator was flat at 18.5, in line with the prior reading, and below the consensus for 20.3. In 
Switzerland, the core CPI came in a t +2.6% y/y, below the prior +3.2% y/y rate. On Tuesday, the NAB (Australia) 
Business Confidence looks to be 10, while Business Conditions looks to be 11. The final HICP Italian inflation rate 
came in at +0.4% y/y, the same as the prior reading. The German ZEQ current conditions index looks to be 64.2, 
above the prior 63.9. The economic sentiment index looks to be 31.9, above the prior 29.7. The Bank of Japan 
releases its minutes.  OPEC releases its monthly oil market report. On Wednesday, the final reading for Industrial 
Production in Japan is projected to be +2% y/y. In comparison, Industrial Production in China is projected to be 
+6.6%, below the prior +6.8% reading. Retail sales in China should be +10.6%, and Urban Fixed Asset Investment 
Airline Stocks Hit a Bullish Note - Global Week Ahead - Analyst Blog
should be +11.4%. They should be unchanged from the prior readings. Central planning lives! The U.K. ILO 
unemployment rate looks to be 5.6%. The Eurozone Industrial Production number looks to be +1.7% y/y, basically 
in line with the prior +1.6% y/y rate. Portugal's HICP inflation rate should be +0.8% y/y. In Brazil, broad retail sales 
should be -4% y/y, better than the awful -10.4% y/y number, but still awful. Retail sales should be -2.9...y, better 
than the prior -4.5% y/y reading. In Japan, the very important Key Machinery Orders data comes out. The +17.6% 
y/y growth looks to be weaker than the prior +19.3% y/y reading. On Thursday, the Bank of Korea announces its 
interest rate decision. The BoK base rate should remain unchanged at 1.5%. The final German HICP inflation rate 
comes out. Look for +0.1% y/y. The French HICP inflation rate looks to be +0.3%. Those are near deflation 
readings. The Spanish HICP inflation rate should be -0.1% y/y. That is a deflation reading.  In Greece, the 
preliminary reading for GDP looks to be -0.6% y/y. That's worse than the prior +0.2% y/y reading. The protracted 
shutdown and negotiations made GDP worse for a quarter.  The ECB releases the minutes of its prior meeting. The 
Fed's Dudley speaks in Rochester. U.S. initial claims should be 270K. That's strong. The U.S. retail sales data (ex 
auto) comes out. Look for +0.4% y/y. That should turn around the prior -0.1% y/y reading. On Friday, the Greek CPI 
should be -0.1% y/y.  Preliminary GDP in Germany should be +1.5% y/y. Italy's preliminary GDP growth should be 
+0.5% y/y, better than the prior +0.1% y/y rate. The Eurozone GDP growth rate should be +0.4% in a preliminary 
reading. That's in line with the prior reading. The Eurozone HICP inflation rate should be +0.2% y/y. The Brazil 
proxy GDP growth rate should be -2.15% y/y, better than the prior -4.75% y/y rate, but still awful. The U.S. capacity 
utilization rate looks to be 78, better than the prior 77.8. The University of Michigan index should be 93.6, better 
than the prior 93.1. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 
7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[4] RYANAIR HLDGS (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis 
Report[5] CATHAY PAC AIR (CPCAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[6] CHINA EASTN-ADR (CEA): Free Stock 
Analysis Report[7] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[8] Zacks Investment Research[9]; [ 1]: 
http://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY [ 2]:            http://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/CEA [ 3]:            
http://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/CPCAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194...D=ZC_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYST
_BLOG...=CS-ZC-FT-185744 
[ 
5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZR_LINK...lert=rd_final_rank...YAAY...D=ZC_CONTENT_ZR_ARTC
AT_ANALYST_BLOG...=CS-ZC-FT-185744 
[ 
6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZR_LINK...lert=rd_final_rank...PCAY...D=ZC_CONTENT_ZR_ART
CAT_ANALYST_BLOG...=CS-ZC-FT-185744 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZR_LINK...lert=rd_final_rank...EA...D=ZC_CONTENT_ZR_ARTCAT
_ANALYST_BLOG...=CS-ZC-FT-185744 [ 8]:            http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/185744/airline-stocks-hit-a-
bullish-note-global-week-ahead?cid=CS-ZC-FT-185744 [ 9]:            http://www.zacks.com/ 
Load-Date: August 10, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
August 9, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 624 words
Body
**Perrigo Profits hit by exceptional charges**
Drug manufacturer Perrigo, which is headquartered in Ireland, saw its net income decline by 57 per cent in the 
second quarter, thanks to a host of exceptional charges, according to recent filings.
The company had record net sales in the first two quarters of 2015 of $1.53 billion, with $1.15 billion of that coming 
from its consumer-facing businesses.
Its reported income, however, was just $56.4 million, down from $131.7 million in the previous year.
Adjusted to strip out those charges, the company said the income for the period was up 37 per cent to a record 
$320 million.
The company is the subject of an unsolicited $34 billion takeover offer from generic drugmaker Mylan.
........
**RSA shrinks losses but uncertainty remains**
The Irish arm of British insurer RSA shrank its Irish losses to £16 million in the first half of this year, the company 
noted, which was down from £65 million in the first half of last year.
The insurance company is the subject of a potential takeover bid by Zurich Insurance Group.
However, the company's chief executive Stephen Hester said that, while the Irish losses were coming down,    
some uncertainty remain[s] as claims patterns mature  .
.........
Boardroom Briefing
**Strong trading in first nine months for UDG**
Medical services company UDG Healthcare said that its trading for the nine months to the end of June 2015 had 
been significantly ahead of the same period last year, in a statement to the stock market.
The growth in profits had been driven by the performance of its Sharp Packaging Services division its Ashfield 
Commercial & Medical Services division
The company had also been helped by currency movements, the statement said. The company reiterated its 
guidance for earnings per share growth of between 7 per cent and 9 per cent ahead of the previous year.
........
**Record monthly traffic for Ryanair**
Ryanair's traffic grew 11 per cent to 10.1 million customers in July, the company announced, saying it was the first 
airline to carry over ten million passengers in a month.
The company's load factor rose by 4 per cent to 95 per cent, while its rolling annual traffic to July grew by 15 per 
cent to 95.3 million customers.
The figure for the same month last year was 9.15 million passengers, a load factor of 91 per cent, Ryanair said.
   For example, we carried more customers in one month [10.14 million in July] than Aer Lingus carried in a whole 
year [9.77m in 2014],   Ryanair spokesman Kenny Jacobs said in a statement.
........
**Turnaround continues at KBC Ireland**
KBC Ireland had profits of EUR 18 million in the second quarter of this year, but it is forecasting loan impairments of 
between EUR 50 million and EUR 100 million for its Irish operations in 2015 and 2016.
KBC Bank Ireland chief executive Wim Verbraeken said last week that the results and impairments were    in line 
with our expectations and we remain on track to return to full year profitability by 2016, so our guidance remains the 
same as previously stated  .
The EUR 18 million profit was a turnaround from the EUR 34 million loss in the second quarter of 2014.
The bank said it remains on track to return to profit by 2016, at which point its options would be to grow a profitable 
retail bank in Ireland, build a bank-insurance group, or sell a profitable bank.
.......
**Aviva ready to take advantage of upturn**
Aviva Ireland has reported an 80 per cent rise in profits for the first half of the year, up to EUR 45 million from EUR 
25 million in the same period in 2014.    Our results show that Aviva Ireland is making good progress,   chief 
executive officer Hugh Hessing said.    We are confident we are in a good position to take full advantage of the 
strong recovery in the Irish economy.  
Load-Date: August 10, 2015
End of Document
Why immigration is a class issue
Why immigration is a class issue
Sunday Business Post
August 9, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 1081 words
Body
Good morning from sunny, roasting hot Croatia! After the wettest and coldest July in years, can you blame me for 
getting out to the sun? Did you know that two weeks ago, Dublin airport's weather station recorded a temperature of 
3.9C! This turned out to be the lowest July temperature since 1942.
So yes, I am all for Tourism Ireland and shopping local, but sometimes you have to admit that nature has dealt us a 
poor hand in the summer and travelling for a bit of sun and sea is good for the sanity.
Travelling also reveals just how lucky we are. Last night in a bar in Dalmatia, all the locals were talking about 
emigration. In the past year, there has been a surge of young Croats heading to Ireland for work. The media here is 
full of reports about the fortunes of Croatian immigrants in Ireland.
In the local hospital, doctors told me the other day of their medical friends who have upped sticks and gone to 
Ireland. The local barmen also jumped on the Ryanair flight from Zadar a few months back and they are now 
working near the Powerscourt Centre in Dublin. These two formerly clean-shaven young lads have even grown the 
ubiquitous South William Street hipster beards!
Last Thursday, Croatians celebrated the 20th anniversary of their victory over the Serbs in the 1992-1995 
Yugoslavian war; however, with so many young leaving the country, that victory seems a little hollow.
But it's not just Croatia. All over eastern and central Europe, the Balkan people are on the move. Emigration and 
subsequent immigration is the great issue of our times.
Their route is fairly simple: it's south to north. Hundreds of thousands are on the move. This summer, Croatia and 
neighbouring Serbia have become transit countries as desperate people avoid travelling by sea, as a result of the 
disasters of ships sinking and immigrants drowning in the Mediterranean. They are coming overland from Syria, and 
from further south in Africa through Croatia and Serbia to western Europe.
Why immigration is a class issue
The figures are startling. In the first three months of this year, 185,000 people have applied for protection in the EU. 
The figure represents an 86 percent increase from the same period the previous year.
In total, citizens from 144 countries have sought asylum in the EU in the first quarter of 2015. And the EU wants to 
relocate 40,000 migrants who are now in Greece and Italy in other EU countries, obviously including Ireland.
Tragically, war is still the main driver as terrified people leave their homes seeking sanctuary. For example, 131,000 
Syrians arrived in the EU in the last 12 months - and thousands of Afghans, Eritreans and Ukrainians are also on 
the move, heading north and west.
Here in the Balkans, just south of where I am writing, nearly 50,000 people left Kosovo from January to March of 
this year because there are simply no jobs in the Albanian enclave.
Hungary, to the north, is erecting a fence on the Serbian border to prevent people entering Hungarian territory. This 
is proving hugely popular with the Hungarian electorate and goes to the root of the problem, which is that while the 
political class is telling ordinary Europeans that immigrants are good for the economy and should be welcomed, 
ordinary people feel threatened not just economically but also culturally.
Nowhere is this more evident than in Germany. Last week, the German immigration minister underlined the strain 
immigration is posing in certain countries when he asked rhetorically whether    it's not okay that Germany, Sweden, 
and France are taking 50 per cent of the refugees while other countries do nothing  . This comes after an alarming 
rise in anti-immigrant sentiment in Germany, particularly in the former East Germany.
Ironically, Greece, a country tormented by Germany over the past few months has just overtaken Italy as the 
country taking in most migrants. This is a country that can barely support its own population, let alone the 101,000 
migrants who have arrived in Greece by sea since January.
In Britain, the Calais refugee crisis has become a political hot potato that no politician wants to touch and, all over 
Europe, survey after survey indicates that populations do not want more immigration, no matter what the 
circumstances.
But people are on the move and they are not going to stop. Think about yourself. If you and your family were from 
Syria what would you do?
But there's the rub. Immigration is a class issue. Immigrants by definition compete with the poorest local people in 
the job market, in the housing market and for access to health and schools. This is a fact.
Economists tend to miss the central point, of immigration which is that while the economy might get workers, 
society gets people. Therefore the technocratic language of the economy is not able to deal with the totality of 
immigration and can't deal with the fact that there are winners and losers in this game.
If you have, like me, the luxury of writing for the newspapers and working as an economist, there's little chance that 
a new immigrant will take your job. If, on the other hand, I am labouring on the sites or working in a bar, there's a 
serious chance that my wages and job security will be affected by new people coming into the country looking for 
work.
So for the relatively wealthy, immigration has been a boon. There are more taxi drivers, more cleaners, more shop 
assistants, more nannies; in short, the service economy, the one that services the relative wealthy, booms. But are 
wages in that sector booming? No.
The relatively wealthy don't have to worry about immigrants pushing up rents because, frankly, the immigrants can't 
afford to live in posh areas, so they compete for housing not with the relatively wealthy, but with the relatively poor.
It's a similar story in schools. Immigrant kids don't, by and large, go to private schools. They go to state schools 
where they compete for the state's resources with Irish citizens.
Why immigration is a class issue
These are the facts. Immigration is a class issue, and the richer you are, the greater the luxury you have to 
pontificate about immigration because you are not affected - or if you are, you are affected positively.
When the relatively poor - those who are threatened by immigrants - voice their concerns, it is far too easy for the 
rich to dismiss these people as    racist' or    xenophobic  , whereas maybe they are just voicing everyday real 
concerns. One thing is clear: immigration is going to increase in the years ahead. Wouldn't it be a good idea to talk 
about it, warts and all?
Load-Date: August 10, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz Air's July passenger numbers take off to record altitudes
Ryanair and Wizz Air's July passenger numbers take off to record altitudes
City A.M.
August 6, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 273 words
Byline: JOSEPH MILLIS
Body
BUDGET airlines Ryanair and Wizz Air yesterday revealed soaring passenger numbers in July.
The 30-year-old Irish no-frills carrier announced that it flew 10.1m customers in July, an increase of 11 per cent 
from a year earlier.
Its load factor - a measurement of how full its flights are - was 95 per cent full last month, up from 91 per cent a year 
ago, a record for Ryanair.
The airline's spokesman Kenny Jacobs said: "This is the first time ever that any airline has carried more than 10m 
international customers in one calendar month… These record customer numbers and highest ever load factors are 
due to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the continuing success of our Always Getting Better 
customer experience programme, which continues to deliver stronger than expected traffic and load factors on our 
biggest ever summer schedule."
Meanwhile, Wizz Air has lifted passenger numbers by 20 per cent for July compared with the same period in 2014. 
The FTSE 250 listed airline had 1.97m passengers in July this year, up from 1.64m passengers in July 2014. Wizz 
Air increased its load factor, by 1.1 percentage points to 92.7 per cent from 91.6 per cent.
The central and eastern European airline said in the rolling 12 months to 31 July 2015, passenger numbers were up 
by 20 per cent to 17.64m. In July, the company took delivery of its 63rd brand new A320 from Airbus.
The peak summer season also brought enhancements and changes by Wizz Air to its customers, including the 
option of bringing a second personal item such as a handbag or briefcase on board as well as the small or large 
cabin bag chosen during the booking process.
Ryanair and Wizz Air's July passenger numbers take off to record altitudes
Graphic
 
Ryanair says it's the first airline to carry more than 10m passengers in a calendar month
Load-Date: August 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair traffic increases 11% in July to 10.1m customers Ryanair traffic...
Ryanair traffic increases 11% in July to 10.1m customers; Ryanair traffic...
Business World (Digest)
August 5, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 106 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today announced that their traffic grew 11% in July to 10.1m customers while rolling 
annual traffic to July grew 15% to 95.3m customers.
Body
Ryanair have today announced that their traffic grew 11% in July to 10.1m customers while rolling annual traffic to 
July grew 15% to 95.3m customers.
This makes Ryanair the first airline to carry over 10m international customers in one month.
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair's July traffic grew by 11% to 10.1m customers, while our load factor jumped 
4% points to 95%.
"This is the first time ever that any airline has carried over 10m international customers in one calendar month. For 
example we carried more customers in one month (10.14m in July) than Aer Lingus carried in a whole year (9.77m 
in 2014)." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 10, 2015
End of Document
Drunk on board - What's the worst case scenario?
Drunk on board - What's the worst case scenario?
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 3, 2015 Monday 7:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 300 words
Body
       BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Drinking alcohol on a plane is nothing out of the ordinary, whether it's a Martini for the fear 
of flying, a champagne for the start of the holidays or a cold beer on a short trip.   But when is enough enough, and 
what happens if a passenger drinks too much?  'Everyone reacts differently to alcohol,' said Carola Scheffler of the 
German Aviation Association (BDL).  'Some guests are conspicuous after one beer,' said Ali Genc of Turkish 
Airlines. 
  There are varying ways to deal with a passenger who has overdone it. If ground crew at the airport can tell before 
the flight that someone is drunk, they are allowed to keep them from boarding, says Robin Kiely from Ryanair.  
Once on board, the cabin crew would try to calm down the drunken guest.   Turkish Airlines' Genc said his company 
would try to offer them coffee.   And if all else fails, the captain has the final call. He could decide for example if the 
plane must make an intermediate stop to drop off the distracting passenger.   'That can be expensive,' warned 
travel legal expert Paul Degott, who said an extra stop could easily cost 100,000 euros (110,500 dollars).   And 
because the passenger violates aviation regulations, the police would also be waiting for the passenger on the 
ground.   But this is usually the rare exception for most airlines. Lufthansa for example have hardly ever made an 
intermediate stop because of a drunk passenger, said Lufthansa spokeswomen Anja Lindenstein.   Air Berlin also 
said things only quite rarely escalate that far.  Both Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines said they do not blacklist drunken 
passengers for any future flights. But Air Berlin said: 'Air Berlin can deny the transport of passengers for future 
flights. But that is also an individual case.'   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 3, 2015
End of Document
Drunk on board - What's the worst case scenario
Drunk on board - What's the worst case scenario
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 3, 2015 Monday 5:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 300 words
Body
       BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Drinking alcohol on a plane is nothing out of the ordinary, whether it's a Martini for the fear 
of flying, a champaign for the start of the holidays or a cold beer on a short trip.   But when is enough enough, and 
what happens if a passenger drinks too much?  'Everyone reacts differently to alcohol,' said Carola Scheffler of the 
German Aviation Association (BDL).  'Some guests are conspicuous after one beer,' said Ali Genc of Turkish 
Airlines. 
  There are varying ways to deal with a passenger who has overdone it. If ground crew at the airport can tell before 
the flight that someone is drunk, they are allowed to keep them from boarding, says Robin Kiely from Ryanair.  
Once on board, the cabin crew would try to calm down the drunken guest.   Turkish Airlines' Genc said his company 
would try to offer them coffee.   And if all else fails, the captain has the final call. He could decide for example if the 
plane must make an intermediate stop to drop off the distracting passenger.   'That can be expensive,' warned 
travel legal expert Paul Degott, who said an extra stop could easily cost 100,000 euros (110,500 dollars).   And 
because the passenger violates aviation regulations, the police would also be waiting for the passenger on the 
ground.   But this is usually the rare exception for most airlines. Lufthansa for example have hardly ever made an 
intermediate stop because of a drunk passenger, said Lufthansa spokeswomen Anja Lindenstein.   Air Berlin also 
said things only quite rarely escalate that far.  Both Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines said they do not blacklist drunken 
passengers for any future flights. But Air Berlin said: 'Air Berlin can deny the transport of passengers for future 
flights. But that is also an individual case.'   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 3, 2015
End of Document
IAG in drive to speed up digital innovation Airlines
IAG in drive to speed up digital innovation; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
August 3, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 17
Length: 388 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
International Airlines Group, the owner of British Airways and Iberia, is working with technology start-ups in Israel 
and San Francisco as it looks to speed up digital innovation across its carriers.
The company has set up a team tasked with coming up with new ideas that push the boundaries of digital 
innovation already taking place within the airline industry as it looks to get ahead of rivals.
Willie Walsh , chief executive officer, told investors this week that it was working with technology companies in 
Israel and on the US west coast to see if there are digital initiatives that could be useful for IAG's airline 
subsidiaries. He added that some ideas had already been presented to the group's board.
"We're trying to really move at a pace that we haven't been operating at," Mr Walsh said. He said some of the ideas 
would be "significant" in terms of improving customer experience.
IAG's move comes as airlines step up their investment in digital innovation. Its chief European rival, Lufthansa, 
announced plans last year to invest more in innovation and digital technologies, including an "innovation hub" in 
Berlin to gain insight from Germany's start-up scene.
Lufthansa's developers are working on an app that would tell passengers how long it will take to reach the 
departure gate from their homes, taking into account the amount of road traffic and queueing times at the airport.
IAG in drive to speed up digital innovation Airlines
IAG's low-cost rivals also see digital innovation as key to future growth.Ryanair, the Irish carrier, is using its new 
Digital Labs to overhaul its website and develop its mobile phone app. This year it will launch a fare comparison 
website and a personalised homepage that differentiates between customers.
Meanwhile, easyJet is piloting a programme with London's Gatwick airport that uses location data to send gate and 
baggage belt information to its mobile app.
While IAG would not comment on some of the technologies being looked at, a spokeswoman said it was largely 
focused on customer-driven innovation. She said the group was set up two months ago.
The team was created to co-ordinate digital innovation between IAG's airline subsidiaries, which also includes 
Spanish low-cost carrier Vueling. Vueling is testing WiFi on a small number of aircraft and recently announced 
plans to install power plugs in premium areas of its aircraft.
Load-Date: August 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair paves the way for IAG Aer Lingus takeover
Ryanair paves the way for IAG Aer Lingus takeover
AirFinance Journal
August 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND,SPAIN,UK
Length: 247 words
Highlight: Irish flag carrier's remaining shareholders have until Sept 1 to accept the takeover.
Body
Ryanair has agreed to sells its stake in Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus to International Airlines Group (IAG), the owner 
of British Airways, Vueling and Iberia.  Ryanair's acceptance was a condition of the offer, which is now wholly 
unconditional. As of 1pm (GMT) on August 18 2015, AERL Holding Limited, a subsidiary of IAG, received valid 
acceptances for the offer for 517,490,180 Aer Lingus shares. The shares represent 95.77% of the existing issued 
share capital of Aer Lingus.  The remaining shareholders now have until 3pm GMT on September 1 2015 to accept 
IAG's takeover, which is now unconditional.  IAG's bid to take over Aer Lingus was originally made on January 27 
2015. It valued each Aer Lingus share at â,¬2.55 ($2.90), comprising of a cash offer of â,¬2.50 and a dividend of 
â,¬0.05 per share.
In late May,the Irish government agreed to sell its shares in Aer Lingus to IAG. In July, the European Commission 
cleared the â,¬1.36 billion ($1.55 billion) sale of Aer Lingus to airline conglomerate International Airlines Group 
(IAG).  Speaking to local media, Irish Minister for Transport Paschal Donohoe said that the money the government 
gets from selling its stake in Aer Lingus will be used to fund infrastructure projects across the state. The Irish 
government previously had a 25.11% stake in the airline while Ryanair owned a 29.8% stake.
To see all of Aer Lingus' and IAG's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: September 7, 2015
End of Document
IAG warns on Heathrow runway costs Airlines
IAG warns on Heathrow runway costs; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
August 1, 2015 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 8
Length: 452 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of International Airlines Group, the owner of British Airways, has warned it will challenge any 
decision that sees airlines footing the bill for a third runway at Heathrow.
Willie Walsh yesterday said there were serious questions to be answered regarding the financing and affordability 
of expanding the UK's biggest airport, which last month won the backing of the long-awaited Airports Commission 
review.
"The price tag attached to this third runway is excessive and cannot be justified on any basis," said Mr Walsh. "We 
didn't argue in favour of it . . . and we're certainly not prepared to pay for it."
The commission estimates a new runway at Heathrow would cost around £17.6bn to build, which would be partly 
paid for by higher landing charges. IAG is the biggest airline group at Heathrow.
Mr Walsh's comments come as IAG, which also owns Iberia and low-cost carrier Vueling, said cost-cutting helped 
produce a 40 per cent jump in quarterly profits.
Operating profit rose to EUR530m in the second quarter, up from EUR380m in the same period last year, while 
revenues increased 11 per cent to EUR5.7bn. This took first-half operating profit to EUR555m, a 141 per cent rise 
from EUR230m a year ago. IAG said it remained confident of generating a full-year operating profit of more than 
IAG warns on Heathrow runway costs Airlines
EUR2.2bn this year, compared with EUR1.4bn in 2014, despite slower profit growth during the three months to 
June 30.
Mr Walsh has spent the past few years extracting productivity gains across the group's airlines. The group is 
starting to show sustained progress with the turnround of Iberia , the Spanish flag carrier that was running up large 
losses. The airline reported an operating profit of EUR51m in the second quarter, compared with EUR16m a year 
ago.
IAG is also nearing the end of its seven-month, EUR1.4bn takeover of Aer Lingus. It has already won the backing of 
two of Aer Lingus's biggest shareholders, the Irish government and Ryanair, and this month received approval from 
the European Commission.
Yesterday IAG said its offer for Aer Lingus was unconditional, waiving its 90 per cent acceptance condition. The 
group is waiting for Ryanair formally to accept its bid, which the low-cost carrier plans to do later this month. IAG will 
then have to gain approval from the US Department of Transport to bring Aer Lingus into its joint transatlantic 
business, Mr Walsh said. AIG said it expected to update investors on its plans for Aer Lingus at its capital markets 
day in November.
IAG has fared better than its main European rivals - Lufthansa and Air France-KLM - which have been hit by strikes 
over plans to cut costs, and increasing competition from aggressive Middle Eastern and budget rivals.
Load-Date: July 31, 2015
End of Document
IAG's 1.3bn takeover of Aer Lingus is close to being finalized 1.3bn ta.
IAG's 1.3bn takeover of Aer Lingus is close to being finalized; 1.3bn ta.
Business World (Digest)
July 31, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 339 words
Highlight: British Airways-owner IAG reported a forecast-beating 40 percent rise in quarterly profit on Friday, 
putting it on track to hit annual targets and confirming its position as one of the strongest airlines operating in 
Europe.
Body
British Airways-owner IAG reported a forecast-beating 40 percent rise in quarterly profit on Friday, putting it on track 
to hit annual targets and confirming its position as one of the strongest airlines operating in Europe.
The group, which reiterated its full-year profit forecast, also signaled it was close to sealing its takeover of Aer 
Lingus, an acquisition that is designed to expand capacity on lucrative transatlantic routes by using Dublin Airport.
IAG on Friday declared its offer for Aer Lingus unconditional, after it waived a 90 percent acceptance condition. But 
the group is still waiting for Ryanair to formally accept its bid, which it has said it will do in mid-August.
IAG's 1.3 billion euro takeover of Aer Lingus is now close to being finalized after an eight month process, having 
been approved by European competition regulators and having won the backing of the two biggest Aer Lingus 
shareholders, the Irish government and Ryanair. It will be added to IAG's portfolio of airlines - British Airways, Iberia 
and Spanish budget carrier Vueling. The airline group on Friday posted operating profit of 530 million euros in the 
three months ended June 30, ahead of a company-supplied consensus forecast of 494 million euros. Airlines 
operating in Europe are braced for a price war, led by the continent's biggest carrier, budget airline Ryanair , which 
is slashing ticket costs to reflect lower fuel prices, heaping pressure on airlines with higher cost bases. IAG is 
better-placed to compete than Lufthansa and Air France-KLM because it focused on cost cutting years before them, 
agreeing deals with staff unions. "We continue to take cost out of the business, with both employee and supplier 
unit costs down at constant currency, and improvements in productivity levels," chief executive Willie Walsh said in 
a statement. For 2015, it reiterated a forecast operating profit in excess of 2.2 billion euros, guidance which it raised 
in February, the latest in a series of upgrades.(Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
IAG's 1.3bn takeover of Aer Lingus is close to being finalized 1.3bn ta.
Load-Date: August 5, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa battles budget rival in home market Airlines
Lufthansa battles budget rival in home market; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 31, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 444 words
Byline: Chris Bryant in Frankfurt
Body
Lower fuel costs helped Lufthansa lift operating profit by more than half in the second quarter but it warned that 
ticket price pressure would continue as low-cost rival Ryanair pushes into the German airline's home market.
Operating profit adjusted for one-off items leapt 52 per cent to EUR635m in the three months to the end of June, 
exceeding a EUR524m consensus forecast and helped by a EUR309m fall in fuel costs during the first half of the 
year.
However, adjusted for currency effects, Lufthansa's yields - a measure of ticket prices - declined 5.7 per cent in the 
second quarter.
Simone Menne , chief financial officer, said a fall in fuel costs was chiefly responsible for the improved results. "We 
will however not be misled by that, since we assume that the price level for airline tickets will not recover."
Lufthansa is battling increasing competition from low-cost, budget carriers in Europe and also faces pressure on 
routes to Asia from carriers based in the Middle East such as Emirates.
The German aviation group views lower fuel costs as a "double-edged" sword because it is likely in the medium 
term to hinder consolidation and bring additional airline capacity into the market, thus depressing prices.
Lufthansa battles budget rival in home market Airlines
Ryanair has identified Germany as a key growth market and from this winter will offer a four times daily service 
between Berlin and Cologne - one of Lufthansa's major domestic routes.
The German airline has responded with a new price system for domestic and European routes which will allow 
customers who do not wish to check a bag to obtain a lower fare, thus bringing it more into line with budget carriers.
Lufthansa is also preparing to launch a low-cost airline called Eurowings on non-hub routes in Europe. Eurowings 
will have lower operating costs than the flagship Lufthansa brand because it is not bound by trade union wage 
agreements. Lufthansa pilots have repeatedly gone on strike over the low-cost plans.
The group's pension deficit soared in the first three months of the year due to the low interest rate environment 
which has raised the cost of funding retirement benefits for companies.
But in the second quarter a rise in corporate bond yields enabled the airline to apply a much higher discount rate, 
which is the rate used to value retirement benefits. Therefore its pension deficit declined from EUR10.2bn to 
EUR6.6bn quarter-on-quarter and the equity ratio - an indicator of leverage and the proportion of assets financed by 
shareholders rather than debt - more than doubled to 17.5 per cent in the same period.
Lufthansa reiterated its full-year goal to achieve more than EUR1.5bn in adjusted operating profit before strike 
costs.
Load-Date: July 30, 2015
End of Document
Friday fantasies
Friday fantasies
Newstex Blogs
IPKat Weblog
July 31, 2015 Friday 1:08 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 955 words
Body
Jul 31, 2015( IPKat Weblog: http://ipkitten.blogspot.com Delivered by Newstex)             http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-
Wq0aN-MXOcg/VbtGFOhYmHI/AAAAAAAA8Ck/lYQtOMOuT5w/s1600/wain.jpg Twitter jokes: Katpost goes viral 
and it's no joke! "Lifting Jokes on Twitter", recently posted [1]to this weblog by leading copyright Kat Eleonora, has 
attracted the attention of the wider media. First we learned that this article on Twitter's take-down of tweets that 
allegedly infringed copyright had been picked up[2] by practitioners' publication Legal Week. Then we discovered 
that our good friends at Managing Intellectual Property had been giving it some air[3]. Says the IPKat, it's lovely to 
know that what we post on this weblog is put to good use by others. Adds Merpel, yes, just like you put their content 
to 
good 
use 
too 
... 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-
mL3sFtvMjgM/VbtWVHi8QvI/AAAAAAAA8DU/M6GDK2LW6mI/s1600/soon.jpgForthcoming attractions. 
Apart from the IPKat's frequent Friday reminder that there are lots of great events coming up, which you can check 
on his Forthcoming Events page[4], it's also the dawn of a new month -- August -- which means that it's time for the 
monthly Queen Mary Journal of Intellectual Property summary of events [5]coming up in that lovely month. Talking 
of events, the next JIPLP-GRUR London seminar, on IP Enforcement in the wake of the IP Enforcement Directive,, 
is coming up on 8 September: more than 60 people have now registered, but there's still room for more. Details of 
this seminar, which is free and has this Kat in the chair, can be accessed here[6].http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-
mqKGwFjQ0Pg/VbtQDKsaUII/AAAAAAAA8C8/q5In1XoQByk/s1600/bosphorus-bridge.jpgPatents 
for 
second 
medical use, coming to a Bosphorus near you. The mysteries of the patentability of a substance that already has 
one known medical use, one a further medical use is found for it, have been recently addressed in numerous 
Katposts on the litigation in England and Wales between Warner-Lambert and Actavis, most recently here [7]and 
here[8]. This Kat thanks his friends at the Turkish IP practice of Deri  for the information that Turkish practice, 
following that of the European Patent Convention, indicates that patents are available there for second medical use. 
Thanks go to Okan Can for sending him this link[9] to the piece he wrote together with his colleagues.           
http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-CnR4_dJnaPc/VbtYK4N0BuI/AAAAAAAA8Dg/Ffw8wbPXCs0/s1600/navy.jpgAround 
the 
weblogs. "Old Money, Old Navy, Fabric Copyright Infringement Suit, Oh Dear!" is Marie-Andrie Weiss's instructive 
post[10] on the 1709 Blog about a US copyright infringement action involving fabric designs (clothing designs per se 
are unprotected by copyright law on the basis that they are "useful articles"). There's also a CopyKat post [11]from 
Ben Challis with a round-up that includes the latest on the sad saga of copyright in that eternal dirge "Happy 
Birthday to You". The jiplp weblog features a note [12]by Indranath Gupta and Vishwas H. Devaiah on the Court of 
Justice of the European Union ruling in Ryanair v PR Aviation, on whether the"you can't contract out" provisions of 
the Database Directive apply to data that isn't protected as well as to data which is. PatLit carries a helpful account 
Friday fantasies
[13]by Marquis Jarque and Silvia Saenz de Ormijana on the new Spanish Patent Act and what it foretells for a 
jurisdiction that is determined not to be marginal in innovation terms, whatever it feels about the new European 
patent 
package. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-
wkRWEANmZls/VbtCX4bosUI/AAAAAAAA8CY/r1fsKsZ694I/s1600/netflix.jpgIn brief, and now at length. The 
AmeriKat neatly potted this month's resolution of the major US patent dispute between Netflix and Rovi, relating to 
five Rovi patents covering interactive programme guides and multiple-device playback, in a single succinct 
paragraph here[14]. Katfriend Kevin Winters[15], not to be outdone, has prepared his own summary of this decision 
which stretches to a little over 4,000 words: you can check it out here[16]. [ 1]:            
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/07/lifting-jokes-on-twitter-no-laughing.html 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.legalweek.com/legal-week/blog-post/2419997/no-laughing-matter-are-twitter-jokes-protected-by-
copyright [ 3]:            http://www.managingip.com/Blog/3475160/Why-Twitter-is-not-seeing-the-funny-side-to-
copying-tweets.html [ 4]:            http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/p/for-your-delectation.html [ 5]:            
https://qmjip.wordpress.com/2015/07/30/august-2015-ip-events/ 
[ 
6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://jiplp.blogspot.co.uk/2015/06/enforcement-of-ip-rights-our-next-jiplp.html 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/05/warner-lambert-v-actavis-court-of.html 
[ 
8]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/06/swiss-claims-kat-reflects-on-warner.html 
[ 
9]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.deris.com.tr/Upload/NewsDoc//f642f81e-cf54-4013-bebc-
967a6db02f58/PROTECTION%20OF%20SECOND%20MEDICAL%20USE%20PATENTS%20IN%20TURKEY-
DERIS.pdf [ 10]:            http://the1709blog.blogspot.co.uk/2015/07/old-money-old-navy-fabric-copyright.html [ 11]:       
     http://the1709blog.blogspot.co.uk/2015/07/the-copykats-baked-cake-social.html [ 12]:            
http://jiplp.blogspot.co.uk/2015/07/the-database-directive-contracting-out.html 
[ 
13]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://patlit.blogspot.co.uk/2015/07/coming-soon-new-spanish-patent-act.html 
[ 
14]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/07/letter-from-amerikat-us-patent.html 
[ 
15]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=160420616 
[ 
16]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v...=sites...id=ZGVmYXVsdGRvbWFpbnxpcGZpbmFuY2VzdG9yYWdlfGd4OjFk
MzUwNWNhZTQzZGIxZDk 
Load-Date: July 31, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair won't accept IAG offer for Aer Lingus until mid-August Ryanair won't a...
Ryanair won't accept IAG offer for Aer Lingus until mid-August; Ryanair 
won't a...
Business World (Digest)
July 30, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 131 words
Highlight: Ryanair does not intend to formally accept a bid for its 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus until mid-August, 
weeks after an offer by British Airways owner IAG expires, a Ryanair spokesman said on Thursday.
Body
Ryanair does not intend to formally accept a bid for its 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus until mid-August, weeks after 
an offer by British Airways owner IAG expires, a Ryanair spokesman said on Thursday.
Earlier this month, IAG extended the deadline for the offer to 1200 GMT on Thursday, July 30, saying it needed 90 
percent of Aer Lingus shareholders to accept.
The Irish government formally accepted the offer to sell its 25 percent in mid-July.
"We don't expect to receive any proceeds from the sale of our stake in Aer Lingus until September and so we plan 
to formally submit our signed acceptance of the IAG offer in mid-August," Ryanair said in a statement. A 
spokeswoman for IAG said the company would put out a regulatory statement in due course. (Reuters) Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 4, 2015
End of Document
Fuel tanks
Fuel tanks
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 356 words
Body
Behavioural economists, such as Daniel Kahneman , believe that most of us get more satisfaction from avoiding 
financial losses than from pocketing any gains. It would seem airlines such as Ryanair feel the same way. Like most 
airlines, fuel is a big part of the cost base. The company prefers to know its fuel costs with certainty each year. In 
the current financial year (ending in March), Ryanair has already covered 90 per cent of its needs, and most for the 
following year as well.
Having pared other operating costs down to the bone, Ryanair's chief financial officer believes fuel (and currency) 
hedging enables the company to focus on the lowest fares. After fuel, the airline has costs of just EUR29 per 
passenger, roughly half of rival easyJet. Yet, when an input such as oil falls so much, one wonders whether such 
hedges serve only to give the company a competitive disadvantage against rivals who hedge less.
For Ryanair, no. As fuel accounts for over 40 per cent of its costs, the airline wants to know how much it will need 
for fuel each year. For other airlines, which have higher costs elsewhere (such as staffing), fuel is less than a third 
of operating costs. So profits are less sensitive to oil price movements.
On the other hand, Ryanair has more to gain as oil prices decline. For this year, fuel is hedged at $91 (against a 
market price of about $50). For next year, 70 per cent of its fuel is hedged at $66 per barrel. So next year's fuel 
costs will be lower than this year's, regardless of what happens to the market price. Good news, then.
Fuel tanks
That fact did not impress the market yesterday when it announced its first-quarter results . Ryanair's shares fell 2.2 
per cent, partly because management voiced its worries about airline fares in the months ahead. Indeed, falling fuel 
prices in the past have led to lower revenues, believes RBC.
Ryanair's capacity is rising steadily - at 6 per cent per annum - while its costs remain very low. But that is more than 
reflected in the share price. At 17 times forward earnings, it trades at a 30-50 per cent valuation premium to its 
rivals such as IAG. Think about loss aversion.
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair plans German expansion drive Airlines
Ryanair plans German expansion drive; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 430 words
Byline: Mark Odell in London
Highlight: Irish low-cost carrier sees opportunity for growth as other operators scale back
Body
Ryanair is preparing an aggressive expansion drive in Germany aimed at capturing up to 20 per cent of the market.
The Irish low-cost airline is looking to "strongly" increase its 5 per cent share of the German aviation market over 
the next five years, starting by stationing five aircraft and crews at Berlin's Schönefeld airport from September. 
Ryanair has five bases in Germany but its penetration of Europe's most populous and wealthiest country lags 
behind its 15 per cent market share across Europe.
"Germany is a large market and we feel now is the right time to grow there given that other carriers, particularly Air 
Berlin and Lufthansa, are taking capacity out," said Neil Sorahan , Ryanair's chief financial officer.
As part of its push, Ryanair is returning to the German domestic market, which it pulled out of seven years ago, with 
plans to start five daily services between Berlin and Cologne in its winter schedule.
Mr Sorahan said he expected to double the number of bases in Germany as part of Ryanair's growth plans but 
warned it would "depend on what opportunities we get". He identified Poland as another "exciting" market.
His comments came as Ryanair reported a 25 per cent jump in net profit to EUR245m in the three months to the 
end of June, helped by lower fuel costs, on revenue up 10 per cent to EUR1.7bn.
Ryanair plans German expansion drive Airlines
After profit warnings in 2013 , Ryanair unveiled an image revamp and customer service improvements that should 
support ambitious growth plans based on two large orders with Boeing.
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers has revised its growth plans upwards in its winter schedule and said 
it was on course to carry 103m people in the year to March 2016, up from the 100m previously forecast.
The airline stuck to its earnings guidance for the year, indicating that it expected to hit the upper end of its range of 
EUR940m to EUR970m in net profit.
Ryanair's shares closed down 1.4 per cent to EUR12.14, after some analysts expressed disappointment that the 
airline did not raise its earnings guidance.
In the three months to the end of June, the airline focused on filling aircraft by reducing ticket prices but signalled 
that it expected to raise average fares in the current quarter, traditionally its most profitable. It took advantage of the 
lower oil price to reduce the cost of its fuel hedging programme in future years.
The airline had missed out on large gains from the sharp drop in the oil price by fixing 90 per cent of its fuel needs 
in the year to March 2016 at $91 per barrel, almost double the price of crude in the spot market.
See Lex
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings Q1 profit increases
Ryanair Holdings Q1 profit increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 28, 2015 Tuesday 7:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 192 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings plc has reported that profit attributable to equity holders of parent for the first quarter 
ended June 30, 2015 was E245.1 million, or 17.81 cents per diluted share, compared to E196.8 million, or 14.18 
cents per diluted share, for the same quarter ended June 30, 2014.
Body
Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the first quarter ended June 30, 2015 were E1.65 billion, 
compared to E1.49 billion for the same quarter ended June 30, 2014. Operating profit from continuing operations for 
the first quarter ended June 30, 2015 was E288.4 million, compared to E231.8 million for the same quarter ended 
June 30, 2014. Profit before tax for the first quarter ended June 30, 2015 was E277.8 million, compared to E223.6 
million for the same quarter ended June 30, 2014. Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's CEO, said: "We are pleased to report 
strong growth in traffic and profits in Q1. Our mix of low fares, best on time performance (91% in Q1) and enhanced 
customer experience under our "Always Getting Better" ("AGB") programme, continues to attract millions of new 
customers. At the same time our focus on cost (Q1 unit costs fell 7%) enables us to pass on lower fares to 
customers. Q1 average fare fell 4% to just 45, due to the timing of Easter, weaker April yields and lower checked 
bag penetration as more families and business customers enjoy discounts on their luggage or benefit from our free 
2nd carry-on bag policy."
Load-Date: August 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair continues its ascent with (EURO)245m profit for the first quarter
Ryanair continues its ascent with (EURO)245m profit for the first quarter
City A.M.
July 28, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 165 words
Byline: JAMES NICKERSON
Body
RYANAIR'S profits have taken off, as traffic and revenue increased in the first quarter.
Total profits for the budget airline in the three months to the end of June grew by 25 per cent on last year to 
(EURO)245m (£173.7m). Revenues were up 10 per cent to (EURO)1.65bn.
In the same period, passenger numbers increased by 16 per cent to 28m thanks to improved load factors, up six 
per cent to 92 per cent. Meanwhile, lower oil prices have allowed the low cost carrier to trim up to (EURO)250m 
from its fuel bill for 2017.
Earnings per share rose by 26 per cent to (EURO)17.90 for the period.
Ryanair said it expects full year profits to be at the upper end of the predicted range of (EURO)940m to 
(EURO)970m. However, the company has also warned it has "almost zero visibility" over what will happen in the 
second half of the year.
The firm has been making strides to improve its reputation, with recent changes including an upgrade of its mobile 
app and cutting the fees for carrying sporting gear.
Graphic
 
Ryanair has tried to improve its reputation
Ryanair continues its ascent with (EURO)245m profit for the first quarter
Load-Date: August 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to use summer profits to slash winter fares Ryanair to use ...
Ryanair to use summer profits to slash winter fares; Ryanair to use ...
Business World (Digest)
July 27, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 504 words
Highlight: Ryanair raised its annual passenger growth target to 14 percent on Monday, saying it would drive 
capacity by using summer profits and falling fuel prices to reduce fares in the winter.
Body
Ryanair raised its annual passenger growth target to 14 percent on Monday, saying it would drive capacity by using 
summer profits and falling fuel prices to reduce fares in the winter.
But its share price fell 3 percent after it disappointed some investors by not boosting its profit guidance for the year 
after strong summer bookings, saying it was "too early in the year" to change it.
The Irish airline, already Europe's largest by passenger numbers, expects the winter cuts to help lift its annual traffic 
to 103 million passengers, up from a target of 100 million that it gave eight weeks ago, marking growth of 10 
percent.
The airline typically cuts fares in the winter, but a fall in fuel prices per passenger of 7 percent and a planned 15 
percent capacity increase in the six months to March will increase pressure on rivals. "We're going to use some of 
the slightly better (first-half) performance ... to pass on very aggressive pricing so that we fill 15 percent capacity 
growth in the second half instead of 10 percent," Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said in a video statement. After 
warning that summer fares in the six months to the end of September could fall by up to 2 percent, it said it now 
expected them to be flat. The extra revenue will be used to cut winter fares by up to 8 percent to boost market 
share. "I think this winter they will push capacity aggressively into certain markets... and if there is an airline that 
should be concerned, it's probably easyJet," said Goodbody Stockbrokers analyst Mark Simpson. The news of price 
cuts could also spell bad news for other rivals such as Air France-KLM and Lufthansa, which are currently battling 
to cut costs to safeguard profits as ticket prices fall. Air France-KLM said on Friday it would accelerate restructuring 
plans, while Lufthansa's pilots made a new offer to cut costs. Lufthansa reports results on Thursday. Ryanair said 
its profit after tax for the year to the end of March 2016 would be at the higher end of the company's forecast of 940 
million to 970 million euros given in late May. It said it was being cautious due to poor visibility. A company poll of 
more than 10 analysts taken before the results were released forecast a full-year profit of 994 million. The airline 
Ryanair to use summer profits to slash winter fares Ryanair to use ...
plans to ground 40 planes this winter compared to 50 last year and it expects to fill 90 percent of its seats, up from 
88 percent last year, the company said in a statement. Bookings are 4 percent ahead of the same time last year for 
August to October, Chief Financial Officer Neil Sorahan said. Profit for the three months to the end of June, the first 
quarter of the company's financial year, was 245 million euros, up 25 percent year on year, and just short of a 249 
million forecast in a company poll. Ancillary revenue in the quarter was up 9 percent lagging traffic growth of 16 
percent in part due to lower charges for checked baggage following a decision to allow a second small bag in the 
cabin for free, O'Leary said. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 31, 2015
End of Document
UK Market Slides, But Reckitt Benckiser Gains
UK Market Slides, But Reckitt Benckiser Gains
RTT News (United States)
July 27, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 343 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market was in negative territory on Monday, as investors turned their focus to the Federal 
Reserve's two-day policy meeting that concludes on Wednesday, for any clues on rate-hike.
In economic news, Germany's business confidence improved more-than-expected in July, reports said citing data 
from the the Munich-based Ifo Institute. The Ifo Business Climate Index rose to 108 in July, well above the 107.5 
score economists had forecast. In June, the reading dropped to a four-month low of 107.4.
Germany's import prices declined at a faster-than-expected pace in June, data from Destatis showed. Import prices 
slid 1.4 percent year-over-year in June, just above economists' expectations for a 1.3 percent decrease.
Meanwhile, figures from the National Bureau of Statistics showed that profits earned by Chinese industrial 
enterprises increased in June. Industrial profits rose 0.3 percent year-over-year to 588.57 billion yuan in June, 
following a 0.6 percent rise in the preceding month.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks was losing 0.89 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, was falling 0.98 percent.
The FTSE 100 index fell 0.14 percent.
Merlin Entertainments fell 3.5 percent after it warned of full-year profit.
Ryanair dropped about 1 percent after issuing a cautious outlook.
Meanwhile, Reckitt Benckiser gained 2.8 percent after first-half profit rose.
Other markets in the region were also trading lower.
The Asian stocks fell broadly, as a continued downtrend in commodity prices, weak U.S. corporate results and a 
stronger yen kept investors' risk appetite in check.
In the U.S., futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the Dow shed 0.9 percent, while 
the tech-heavy Nasdaq and the S&P 500 dropped about 1.1 percent each.
Crude for September delivery fell $0.32 to $47.82 per barrel, while August gold advanced $13.4 to $1098.9 a troy 
ounce.
UK Market Slides, But Reckitt Benckiser Gains
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Fall Ahead Of Fed Meet
European Markets Fall Ahead Of Fed Meet
RTT News (United States)
July 27, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 472 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets were in negative territory on Monday, as investors turned their focus to the 
Federal Reserve's two-day policy meeting that concludes on Wednesday, for any clues on rate-hike.
In economic news, Germany's business confidence improved more-than-expected in July, reports said citing data 
from the the Munich-based Ifo Institute. The Ifo Business Climate Index rose to 108 in July, well above the 107.5 
score economists had forecast. In June, the reading dropped to a four-month low of 107.4.
Germany's import prices declined at a faster-than-expected pace in June, data from Destatis showed. Import prices 
slid 1.4 percent year-over-year in June, just above economists' expectations for a 1.3 percent decrease.
Meanwhile, figures from the National Bureau of Statistics showed that profits earned by Chinese industrial 
enterprises increased in June. Industrial profits rose 0.3 percent year-over-year to 588.57 billion yuan in June, 
following a 0.6 percent rise in the preceding month.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks was losing 0.89 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, was falling 0.98 percent.
The German DAX declined 1.3 percent, the French CAC 40 dropped 1.4 percent and Switzerland's SMI dropped 
0.9 percent. The FTSE 100 index of the U.K. slipped 0.2 percent.
In Frankfurt, Commerzbank declined 2.7 percent and Deutsche Bank fell 2.1 percent.
Henkel and Basf dropped about 1.8 percent each.
Carmakers Volkswagen, BMW and Daimler were in negative territory.
In Paris, Valeo declined more than 3 percent after the car parts maker sent out first-half figures.
Credit Agricole, Societe Generale and BNP Paribas were firmly in negative territory.
Renault fell 1.5 percent and Peugeot was modestly lower.
In London, Merlin Entertainments fell 3.5 percent after it warned of full-year profit.
Ryanair dropped about 1 percent after issuing a cautious outlook.
European Markets Fall Ahead Of Fed Meet
Meanwhile, Reckitt Benckiser gained 2.8 percent after first-half profit rose.
UBS, which reported second-quarter results, fell over 1 percent in Zurich.
Philips added 3.6 percent in Amsterdam. The company reported increased profit for the second quarter.
TNT fell about 1 percent, even after second-quarter loss narrowed.
The Asian stocks fell broadly, as a continued downtrend in commodity prices, weak U.S. corporate results and a 
stronger yen kept investors' risk appetite in check.
In the U.S., futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the Dow shed 0.9 percent, while 
the tech-heavy Nasdaq and the S&P 500 dropped about 1.1 percent each.
Crude for September delivery fell $0.32 to $47.82 per barrel, while August gold advanced $13.4 to $1098.9 a troy 
ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Q1 Profit Climbs; Cautious About Annual Profit View; Stock Down
Ryanair Q1 Profit Climbs; Cautious About Annual Profit View; Stock Down
RTT News (United States)
July 27, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 446 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Low fare airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) Monday reported higher profit in its first 
quarter, boosted by increased traffic and load factor. Looking ahead, the company remains cautious about weak 
prices and yields this winter. Ryanair shares were trading around 3 percent lower in London.
Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said, "We think it is too early in the year to alter our full year profit guidance, although the 
slightly better H1 yields will push it towards the upper end of our previously guided range of ?940m to ?970m net 
profit."
"We caution however that this guidance, which is 12 percent ahead of last year's profit, is heavily reliant on the final 
outturn of H2 fares over which we currently have almost zero visibility," he added.
For the first quarter, pre-tax profit was 277.8 million euros, higher than last year's 223.6 million euros. After tax profit 
- all attributable to equity holders- climbed 25 percent to 245.1 million euros. Earnings per share grew to 17.81 euro 
cents from 14.18 euro cents last year.
Operating profit increased 24 percent year-over-year to 288.4 million euros, and operating margin increased 2 
points to 18 percent.
Total operating revenues from continuing operations improved 10 percent to 1.653 billion euros, driven by higher 
results in scheduled and ancillary businesses.
Total passengers in the quarter were 28 million, 16 percent higher than last year's 24.3 million. Load factor went up 
6 points to 92 percent.
Meanwhile, total revenue per passenger fell by 4 percent. The company reported a 4 percent reduction in average 
fare to 45 euros, partially due to the timing of Easter, weaker April yields and lower checked baggage penetration.
Ryanair further said its campaign to "Keep Greece Flying", under which it dropped prices significantly, has been 
well received.
The airline said it would continue to oppose the UK CMA's 2013 divestment ruling, which was based on the 
invented theory that no other airline would bid for Aer Lingus while Ryanair was a minority shareholder.
Ryanair Q1 Profit Climbs; Cautious About Annual Profit View; Stock Down
Based on the quarterly performance and reasonable visibility into the second quarter, the firm now believes that 
average fares for the first half will be broadly flat, compared to the previous guidance of 0 to -2 percent.
The company expects that second-half fares will be towards the higher end of its negative 4 percent to negative 8 
percent guidance range.
Traffic is expected to increase 13 percent in first half and slightly faster at 15 percent in second half.
In London, Ryanair shares were trading at 11.94 pence, down 2.69 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
End of Document
EU Refers France To Court For Incompatible Aid Recovery From Airlines
EU Refers France To Court For Incompatible Aid Recovery From Airlines
RTT News (United States)
July 27, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 273 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European Commission on Monday said it has referred France to the European Court of Justice 
for failing to recover incompatible aid received by Ryanair and its subsidiary Airport Marketing Services (AMS) for 
using Pau, Nimes and Angouleme airports, as well as Transavia for using Pau airport.
The Commission decisions of July 23, 2014 required France to recover close to EUR 10 million in total of 
incompatible state aid from the airlines. It was concluded the airlines paid less than the additional costs linked to 
their presence in the airport, through various contractual and marketing arrangements with the airports. The airlines 
had therefore benefited from an undue economic advantage, which has to be recovered to remedy the resulting 
distortion of competition.
France failed to fully recover the incompatible aid within the required period of 4 months. The French authorities 
have sent out the recovery orders but have not been able to execute them under national law because they are 
under appeal by the beneficiaries. The French law in case of recovery orders are automatically suspended in case 
of appeal.
However, the Commission believes this goes against established European case law on the implementation of 
recovery decisions by Member States, which prevents national courts from applying such provisions when deciding 
on appeals against recovery orders.
In order to ensure its state aid decisions are fully implemented the Commission has therefore decided to refer 
France to the European Court of Justice.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 28, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Dropped On China Weakness & Caution Ahead Of Fed Meeting
European Markets Dropped On China Weakness & Caution Ahead Of Fed 
Meeting
RTT News (United States)
July 27, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 736 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets ended the first day of the new trading week firmly in negative territory. The 
sharp drop in the Chinese stock market weighed on investor sentiment Monday. Investors also decided to exercise 
caution ahead of the Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting this week.
The Shanghai Composite Index plunging 345.35 points or 8.5 percent to 3,725.56. The decrease, which marked the 
biggest percentage drop by the index since February of 2007, reflected concerns about the Chinese economy.
The Fed is widely expected to leave interest rates unchanged when its concludes its 2-day meeting on Wednesday. 
Traders are likely to keep a close eye on the accompanying statement for any hints about the timing of the first rate 
hike.
There is no need for an interest rate hike soon in the U.K., Bank of England's Chief Economist Andy Haldane told 
BBC Newsnight.
Haldane repeated that rates could go up or down in the future and that he thought the current level was appropriate 
for the near term.
At the July monetary policy meeting, more members moved closer to vote for a rate hike. For those members, 
Greece was a material factor in holding the rate at 0.50 percent.
Haldane said he saw economic "headwinds" such as demographic change, the overhang of high debt and its 
aftermath and the rise of short-termism that could mean economic growth in the future is weaker than in the past.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks decreased by 2.41 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, lost 2.15 percent.
The DAX of Germany dropped by 2.56 percent and the CAC 40 of France fell by 2.57 percent. The FTSE of the 
U.K. declined by 1.13 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 1.38 percent.
In Frankfurt, Deutsche Bank decreased by 3.59 percent and Commerzbank fell by 2.88 percent.
BMW dropped by 2.86 percent and Daimler lost 2.63 percent. Volkswagen also finished with a loss of 1.98 percent.
European Markets Dropped On China Weakness & Caution Ahead Of Fed Meeting
RWE weakened by 1.77 percent and E.ON surrendered 1.68 percent.
In Paris, Valeo declined by 5.41 percent, after the car parts maker reported first-half figures.
Peugeot decreased by 3.47 percent and Renault lost 3.27 percent.
Societe Generale dropped by 3.05 percent and BNP Paribas fell by 2.62 percent. Credit Agricole also closed down 
by 1.64 percent.
In London, Merlin Entertainments fell by 4.28 percent, after it warned of full-year profit.
Ryanair dropped by 2.20 percent, after issuing a cautious outlook.
Reckitt Benckiser gained 1.44 percent, after its first-half profit rose.
UBS, which reported second-quarter results, fell by 1.62 percent in Zurich.
Philips increased by 1.41 percent in Amsterdam. The company reported increased profit for the second quarter.
TNT fell by 1.15 percent, even after its second-quarter loss narrowed.
Germany's business morale unexpectedly improved in July after concerns due to the uncertainty regarding Greece 
and its future in euro eased, results of a key survey revealed Monday.
The Ifo Business Climate Index for German trade and industry rose to 108 from June's revised 107.5, a four month-
low. Economists had expected the measure to edge up a point from June's 107.4 original score.
Germany's import prices declined at a faster-than-expected pace in June, data from Destatis showed Monday. 
Import prices slid 1.4 percent year-over-year in June, just above economists' expectations for a 1.3 percent 
decrease. In May, prices had fallen 0.8 percent.
U.K. factory order growth slowed in July to its lowest level in two years, as a strong sterling and weak global 
conditions weighed on the export outlook, survey data from the Confederation of British Industry showed Monday. 
The total order book balance dropped to -10 percent in July, which was the lowest since July 2013, when it was -12 
percent. Economists had expected a balance figure of -7.
After reporting a sharp drop in new orders for U.S. manufactured durable goods in the previous month, the 
Commerce Department released a report on Monday showing that orders rebounded strongly in the month of June.
The report said durable goods orders jumped by 3.4 percent in June following a revised 2.1 percent decrease in 
May. Economists had expected orders to increase by 3.1 percent compared to the 2.2 percent drop that had been 
reported for the previous month.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
July 26, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 586 words
Body
**AIB sale in mid-2016, says Noonan**
Minister for Finance Michael Noonan has indicated that the sale of AIB is now more likely to be in the middle of next 
year.
According to a note by Davy Stockbrokers, Noonan's comments on the sale of AIB    echo previous statements  .
   For some time now, our view has been that an equity sale would most likely occur in 2016,   Davy noted.    
However, this does not mean that AIB will not seek to issue both lower Tier 2 and AT 1 capital later this year, which 
would represent a welcome step in meaningfully re-engaging with capital markets.  
AIB is due to publish its half-year results on Friday, August 7.
......................
**Hasenstab still selling off Irish bonds**
Michael Hasenstab, one of the best-known figures in the global bond industry, continued to cut his holdings of Irish 
debt in the second quarter, according to Bloomberg figures.
Hasenstab, who works for major US investment firm Franklin Templeton, has made billions of dollars investing in 
Irish bonds.
The amount of Irish debt held by US and Luxembourg-registered versions of Hasenstab's Templeton Global Bond 
Fund and the Templeton Global Total Return Fund fell by EUR 278 million face value in the second quarter to EUR 
1.55 billion, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg from filings.
......................
Boardroom Briefing
**Another acquisition for Aryzta**
Baked goods group Aryzta, which owns the Cuisine de France brand, has acquired food service company La 
Rousse Foods.
Goodbody noted that the acquisition by the Swiss-Irish food company was in keeping with its    stated strategy to 
increase its consumer relevancy through diversifying markets and channel positioning  .
The deal marks the latest acquisition by Aryzta. In April, the company surprised analysts and investors with its 
acquisition of a 49 per cent stake in French food retailer Picard from private equity firm Lion Capital in a EUR 447 
million deal.
A trading statement published last month by Aryzta pointed to a 2.3 per cent dip in underlying revenue growth. 
However, total revenue grew by 13.2 per cent in the third quarter to EUR 973.2 million, helped by the impact of 
currency fluctuations.
......................
**Production rises at PetroNeft**
Irish exploration company PetroNeft has reported that strong recent drilling activity has boosted production by 20 
per cent.
The exploration company also indicated that one of its fields could be bigger than it initially thought.
Dennis Francis, PetroNeft's chief executive, said that the latest result demonstrated    the potential for materially 
enhanced flow rates to be achieved from horizontal production wells  .
   While the well is still cleaning up, initial indications of its productivity are very good. We are also looking forward to 
the L-10 horizontal well result in the coming weeks, and a production increase from this well,   he said.
......................
**The week ahead**
There are lots of things for investors to watch out for this week. Ryanair will kick things off tomorrow with its latest 
quarterly figures, and then Greencore will publish an interim management statement on Tuesday.
Wednesday will see half-year results from Tullow Oil, Aer Lingus and Permanent TSB, while Smurfit Kappa will 
issue its results for the second quarter of 2015.
Property investment company Hibernia Reit has its annual general meeting on Thursday, and will also publish an 
interim management statement on the same day.
Bank of Ireland will publish its half-year results on Friday, a week ahead of rival AIB.
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
July 26, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 586 words
Body
**AIB sale in mid-2016, says Noonan**
Minister for Finance Michael Noonan has indicated that the sale of AIB is now more likely to be in the middle of next 
year.
According to a note by Davy Stockbrokers, Noonan's comments on the sale of AIB    echo previous statements  .
   For some time now, our view has been that an equity sale would most likely occur in 2016,   Davy noted.    
However, this does not mean that AIB will not seek to issue both lower Tier 2 and AT 1 capital later this year, which 
would represent a welcome step in meaningfully re-engaging with capital markets.  
AIB is due to publish its half-year results on Friday, August 7.
......................
**Hasenstab still selling off Irish bonds**
Michael Hasenstab, one of the best-known figures in the global bond industry, continued to cut his holdings of Irish 
debt in the second quarter, according to Bloomberg figures.
Hasenstab, who works for major US investment firm Franklin Templeton, has made billions of dollars investing in 
Irish bonds.
The amount of Irish debt held by US and Luxembourg-registered versions of Hasenstab's Templeton Global Bond 
Fund and the Templeton Global Total Return Fund fell by EUR 278 million face value in the second quarter to EUR 
1.55 billion, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg from filings.
......................
Boardroom Briefing
**Another acquisition for Aryzta**
Baked goods group Aryzta, which owns the Cuisine de France brand, has acquired food service company La 
Rousse Foods.
Goodbody noted that the acquisition by the Swiss-Irish food company was in keeping with its    stated strategy to 
increase its consumer relevancy through diversifying markets and channel positioning  .
The deal marks the latest acquisition by Aryzta. In April, the company surprised analysts and investors with its 
acquisition of a 49 per cent stake in French food retailer Picard from private equity firm Lion Capital in a EUR 447 
million deal.
A trading statement published last month by Aryzta pointed to a 2.3 per cent dip in underlying revenue growth. 
However, total revenue grew by 13.2 per cent in the third quarter to EUR 973.2 million, helped by the impact of 
currency fluctuations.
......................
**Production rises at PetroNeft**
Irish exploration company PetroNeft has reported that strong recent drilling activity has boosted production by 20 
per cent.
The exploration company also indicated that one of its fields could be bigger than it initially thought.
Dennis Francis, PetroNeft's chief executive, said that the latest result demonstrated    the potential for materially 
enhanced flow rates to be achieved from horizontal production wells  .
   While the well is still cleaning up, initial indications of its productivity are very good. We are also looking forward to 
the L-10 horizontal well result in the coming weeks, and a production increase from this well,   he said.
......................
**The week ahead**
There are lots of things for investors to watch out for this week. Ryanair will kick things off tomorrow with its latest 
quarterly figures, and then Greencore will publish an interim management statement on Tuesday.
Wednesday will see half-year results from Tullow Oil, Aer Lingus and Permanent TSB, while Smurfit Kappa will 
issue its results for the second quarter of 2015.
Property investment company Hibernia Reit has its annual general meeting on Thursday, and will also publish an 
interim management statement on the same day.
Bank of Ireland will publish its half-year results on Friday, a week ahead of rival AIB.
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
End of Document
Airports chief urges wide debate as Manchester and Stansted outpace bigger hubs Aviation policy
Airports chief urges wide debate as Manchester and Stansted outpace 
bigger hubs; Aviation policy
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 381 words
Byline: Andrew Bounds, North of England Correspondent
Body
Passenger numbers at Manchester and Stansted grew by more than Gatwick and Heathrow combined over the 
past year as their owner invested and attracted new airlines.
An extra 4.4m flew through the airports, owned by Manchester Airports Group, in the year to March 31 2015.
Numbers at Stansted grew 16.1 per cent to 20.9m, while Manchester increased 7.2 per cent to 22.3m. That 
compares with an extra 2.8m passengers at Gatwick and 1.3m at Heathrow, although the two London airports 
handled 112.3m in total. Total UK passenger numbers rose 4.1 per cent to 241.8m.
Charlie Cornish , chief executive of MAG, said the rise showed the need for a wider debate on UK aviation policy. 
He said the recent recommendation by the independent Airports Commission for a runway at Heathrow had not 
addressed all the issues.
"The debate has been polarised by Heathrow. The fastest growth is in short haul and the biggest demand from low-
cost carriers. They are not going to use Heathrow because of the cost. The government needs to look at 
requirements for all the UK for the next 20-50 years."
Airports chief urges wide debate as Manchester and Stansted outpace bigger hubs Aviation policy
He said Stansted, which is east of -London, would need a new runway by 2030. It and Manchester also needed 
better rail links. "By 2030 Stansted will be full," said Mr Cornish, adding if planning curbs are eased it could handle 
45m passengers. He pointed out that airport duty was too high at regional airports.
MAG bought Stansted in 2013 and has worked with Ryanair, its biggest user, to increase passenger numbers.
The two airports rely on charter and holiday traffic, compared with business-focused Heathrow.
It has had five years of growth since the recession, driven by the economic recovery and its use by long-haul 
carriers bypassing more expensive London options.
"There is more capacity flying west to America and flying east through the big Middle East hubs," Mr Cornish said.
Revenues rose by a tenth to £738.4m. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation increased 17 
per cent to £283.6m.
The group, majority owned by the 10 councils of Greater Manchester, delivered a fillip to council taxpayers by 
doubling its full-year dividend to £93m. The remaining 35.5 per cent is owned by IFM Investors, an Australian 
infrastructure fund. MAG also operates East Midlands and Bournemouth airports.
Load-Date: July 22, 2015
End of Document
Ashley Madison's hacking affair After a data breach at the firm Michael Bow asks if a London listing is a fling 
too far
Ashley Madison's hacking affair; After a data breach at the firm Michael Bow 
asks if a London listing is a fling too far
City A.M.
July 22, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 521 words
Body
RYANAIR boss Michael O'Leary is no shrinking violet, but even Ashley Madison, the controversial adultery website 
hacked on Monday, proved too much for the colourful Irishman.
The Ryanair chief was offered (EURO)120,000 (£84,350) by Ashley Madison last year to paint its logo on one of its 
planes, but turned them down.
The incident underscores the reputation of Ashley Madison, which claims to have 1.2m members in the UK and 
revealed in April it was hunting a £130m stock market listing in London.
Those plans, already on the back foot after City bankers voiced scepticism over a deal, have been left hanging by a 
thread after hackers leaked the details of 2,500 Ashley Madison members - and threatened to reveal the details of 
all 37m members.
Spokesman Paul Keable yesterday said it was too early to tell how the leak of customer data would affect its float 
plans. But the incident - and longer running concerns over its business model- pose further challenges to a 
company keen to join London's listed ranks.
Ashley Madison, owned by a Torontobased group called Avid Life Media, is the brainchild of 43-year-old Canadian 
tech entrepreneur Noel Biderman, an ex-lawyer and sports marketing agent.
The married father of two cofounded the company in 2002 and now owns 12 per cent, with the rest made up of 
investments from other investors and fund managers.
Ashley Madison's hacking affair After a data breach at the firm Michael Bow asks if a London listing is a fling 
too far
Customers sign up to the service for free, but the company makes money by charging men to view messages sent 
by female users.
This business model, including a £15 charge to delete a profile from the site, has prompted complaints and the 
veracity of female users sending messages has also been called into question.
A Canadian lawsuit filed last year against the firm by one employee alleges she was paid $34,000 (£22,000) a 
month to create 1,000 fake female profiles for the site. Avid Life has denied the claim, saying it is "without merit."
"We consider this to be a frivolous claim brought by an opportunistic plaintiff," it added.
Despite this, the company earns substantial sales, generating $115m in revenue last year - 45 per cent higher than 
the $78m it made in 2013. Biderman claims it also made $55m pre-tax profit in 2014.
More strait-laced dating sites have emerged as an accelerating sub-sector of the red hot tech scene in its own right, 
especially in the US.
Match Group, the owner of dating app Tinder and websites www.Match.com and OK Cupid, will be spun off by 
owner IAC/INTERACTIVECORP in a float later this year which could value the unit at $6bn. The dating group had 
revenues of last year to $897m - an 11 per cent year-on-year rise.
The cyber group which obtained Ashley Madison's data, dubbed The Impact Team, said part of its motive was the 
fee on members who want to leave the site. The group claims it generates $1.7m a year for Ashley Madison - the 
type of metric City investors will have to learn to stomach if it does launch float www.plans.UK cybersecurity firm 
Sycura has been hired to investigate Monday's breach, but only time will tell if the hack has sunk Ashley Madison's 
float plans.
Last year it made $115m revenue, 45 per cent more than in 2013. '
Graphic
 
Ashley Madison's ad campaign
Load-Date: July 22, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
July 19, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 639 words
Body
DCC, the Irish energy-to-technologies conglomerate, has signalled that its operating profit looks set to rise.
In an interim management statement issued last week, DCC said that it expects operating profit and earnings per 
share for the year to March 2016 to be    significantly ahead of the prior year  .
The company said its guidance was based on normal winter weather conditions as well as the expected completion 
of the Butagaz acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2015.
The company reported revenues of £10.6 billion and operating profits of £222 million in the year ended March 2015. 
It said that first quarter operating profit, for the three months to June 30, was in line with budget.
DCC will announce its interim results for the six months to September 30 on Tuesday, November 10.
.........................
**Positive indications from Providence**
Exploration company Providence Resources has signalled improved chances of discovering oil and gas in its latest 
update.
In a technical update on the Porcupine Basin, off the south-west coast of Ireland, Providence pointed to the    
exploration potential   of the area.
The exploration company reported the results of a newly-acquired 3D seismic survey covering parts of Frontier 
Exploration Licence 2/14.
   We believe that the encouraging initial results from the Polarcus multi-client 3D seismic survey have more than 
vindicated our decision in 2014 to underwrite this survey over FEL 2/14 and the surrounding area,   Providence's 
technical director John O'Sullivan said.
Boardroom Briefing
The licence is operated by Providence, which has an 80 per cent interest, on behalf of its partner Sosina 
Exploration.
.......................
**IAG extends offer deadline**
IAG has won acceptance from 50.53 per cent of Aer Lingus shareholders for its EUR 1.36 billion bid for the airline.
Among the shareholders who have decided to accept the offer was the Irish government, which agreed to sell its 25 
per cent stake in the airline. Ryanair also decided last week to accept IAG's offer for its 29.8 per cent share in the 
airline.
IAG, which owns British Airways, has now extended its offer deadline to July 30. It also said that the US 
Department of Justice review of the bid had been    satisfactorily concluded  .
.........................
**Bank of Ireland strikes AA deal**
Bank of Ireland has teamed up with the AA to offer a range of financial services to British consumers.
The financial services partnership, which will run for a minimum of ten years, will include a range of services, such 
as credit cards, unsecured loans, savings and mortgages.
Bank of Ireland's chief executive in Britain Des Crowley said the deal builds on the bank's successful financial 
services partnership which it has in Britain with the Post Office.
Bob Mackenzie, executive chairman of AA, said that the long-term partnership    forms a fundamental part of our 
growth strategy to transform the AA into a membership club serving a broader range of the UK motorists' needs  .
.........................
**Positive data from Irish Stock Exchange**
The ISEQ rose 18 per cent in the first half of this year, according to the latest data from the Irish Stock Exchange.
Quarterly statistics published by the ISE last week indicated that more than 33,700 securities from 82 countries 
were listed on ISE markets.
According to the ISE statement, there was strong trading in Irish shares during the first six months of this year, with 
a total of 2.7 million equity trades done on the ISE's electronic trading platform in 2015 so far, up 20 per cent on the 
first half of 2014.
The ISE figures also highlighted strong activity in Irish government bonds and treasury bills, saying that turnover 
reached EUR 54.9 billion in the second quarter,    bringing the total for the first half to EUR 160 billion, an increase 
of 28 per cent on the first half of 2014  .
Load-Date: July 20, 2015
End of Document
The sky gods of a vanished age
The sky gods of a vanished age
Sunday Business Post
July 19, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AGENDA
Length: 432 words
Body
The new, beautifully produced hardback book A Century of Irish Aviation Pioneers and Aviators is definitely not just 
a coffee-table extravaganza for aeroplane buffs.
Yes, it's full of pictures of strange and interesting aircraft to set the planespotter's pulse racing. But it also captures 
wonderfully the wider Irish historic and cultural context into which these magnificent machines and their heroic, 
sometimes tragic, pilots flew.
A breathtaking aerial shot from 1954 shows an impressive line-up of Er Linus DC-3s in front of Dublin's then new 
ocean liner-shaped airport terminal. Yet look closely and massed ranks of clergy can be seen blessing the national 
airline's fleet, grounded for the privilege.
But aviation did bring the modern world to Ireland and the eye is drawn here to the people as much as the 
machines. Grace Kelly shops at Shannon Duty Free shop, Marilyn Monroe and Arthur Miller sip Irish coffees, and 
the Beatles strike a typically rambunctious pose on the tarmac at Dublin. More subtly, Er Linus advertising from the 
1950s shows a self confident engagement with European art.
The short passages of text throughout are interesting, but merely provide support to the well-captioned pictures. An 
older world is dramatically captured here engaging enthusiastically with the new: Alcock and Brown land 
dramatically in a Galway bog; cloth-capped men in carts build the massive runway at Shannon; Free State Garde 
attempt to rescue a stranded aviator at Kilmarnock beach; and crowds gather around an RAF plane that has crash-
landed during the War of Independence.
Less interesting is the book's treatment of recent years, reflecting perhaps the change aviation has undergone from 
a pioneering pursuit for the brave to a corporate industry for accountants. Harder to explain is the total absence of 
Michael O'Leary. Ryanair's more recent European invasion is a mere addendum compared to the pages devoted to 
its original founder Tony Ryan.
The sky gods of a vanished age
The editorial direction is probably explained by the fact that this book was -along with an equally plush television 
documentary included here as a DVD - produced and driven evangelically by Irish aircraft leasing firm Avolon. Like 
most Irish aviation leasing firms, Avolon traces its heritage back to the boom-and-bust saga of Ryan's GPA.
Quibbles aside, if a creation myth were needed to explain aviation's undoubted cultural significance to this island, 
this book is beautiful enough to become its well thumbed Old Testament.
*A Century of Irish Aviation Pioneers and Aviators (Avalon) is available from reference libraries; see avolon.aero*
Load-Date: July 20, 2015
End of Document
Regulators approve IAG's EUR1.4bn Aer Lingus takeover; Airlines
Regulators approve IAG's EUR1.4bn Aer Lingus takeover; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 18, 2015 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - WEEK IN REVIEW; Pg. 11
Length: 254 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
After a seven-month campaign to win the hearts and minds of the Irish public and politicians as much as the 
shareholders of his target, International Airlines Group chief executive Willie Walsh this week cleared the remaining 
hurdles in his EUR1.4bn takeover of Aer Lingus .
Mr Walsh secured approval from regulators at the European Commission and the US Department of Justice for the 
purchase of the flag carrier. The Irish government also formally accepted IAG's offer - consisting of EUR2.50 a 
share in cash plus a dividend of EUR0.05 - for the state's 25.1 per cent stake. Its acceptance came after ministers' 
insistence on continued connectivity from London Heathrow airport to Ireland was backed by Aer Lingus 
shareholders. This means that Aer Lingus's slots at Heathrow will be used only for routes to and from Ireland for 
seven years. IAG also agreed to give up five slots at Gatwick to secure approval from the European Commission.
With Ryanair, which owns nearly 30 per cent of Aer Lingus, saying it would also accept IAG's offer, Mr Walsh looks 
set to add the Irish carrier to a group that already owns British Airways and Iberia. IAG said yesterday that it had 
acceptances so far from shareholders owning 50.5 per cent of Aer Lingus.
Paschal Donohue, Ireland's transport minister, described the sale of Aer Lingus as "a landmark day in the history of 
Aer Lingus and of aviation in Ireland". The government will now be hoping IAG can deliver on its pledge to boost 
Aer Lingus's transatlantic business from Dublin airport.
Regulators approve IAG's EUR1.4bn Aer Lingus takeover; Airlines
Load-Date: July 17, 2015
End of Document
A choice between two successful models
A choice between two successful models
Financial Times (London, England)
July 17, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 12
Length: 126 words
Body
Sir, Ryanair's decision (report, July 15) to close its two bases in Denmark - Copenhagen and Billund - is emblematic 
of a more fundamental choice we all have to make, between two economic models. Interestingly, both models - let's 
say the "Danish" and the "Irish" for simplicity - have proved to be successful and viable within one and the same 
European Union, so we do not all have to be "Germans", as some commentators would have us believe.
Either we want a highly unionised, high-wage and high-tax society with pricey products, or we prefer a libertarian 
labour market with relatively low wages, providing cheap services but compromising on quality. I leave it to your 
readers to make the call.
Niels H Bünemann
Finance commentator,
Frankfurt am Main, Germany
Load-Date: July 16, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus shareholders vote to give IAG takeover the green light
Aer Lingus shareholders vote to give IAG takeover the green light
City A.M.
July 17, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 174 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON
Body
AER LINGUS shareholders have voted in favour of selling the company to British Airways owner International 
Consolidated Airlines Group's (IAG).
IAG, which also owns Iberia and Vueling, is close to completing its (EURO)1.36bn (£951m) deal to take over the 
Irish flag carrier, having received the green light from the European Commission earlier this week.
The group had to agree to relinquish five daily slot pairs at Gatwick airport to "facilitate the entry" of competing 
airlines on routes from London to Dublin and Belfast to satisfy the Commission's conditions.
European Commissioner in charge of competition policy Margrethe Vestager said: "By obtaining significant 
concessions from the airlines the Commission has ensured that air passengers will continue to have a choice of 
airlines at competitive prices after IAG's takeover of Aer Lingus."
Budget airline Ryanair agreed to give up its 29.8 per cent stake in Aer Lingus at the end of last week, and the Irish 
government said it would sell its 25 per cent stake in the airline to IAG in May.
Load-Date: July 17, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair 's pitch for Gatwick slots sparks fresh battle with EasyJet
Ryanair's pitch for Gatwick slots sparks fresh battle with EasyJet
City A.M.
July 16, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 220 words
Byline: JAMES NICKERSON
Body
RYANAIR'S chief executive Michael O'Leary drew up fresh battle lines with arch-rival EasyJet yesterday as he 
announced plans to grapple for five slots at London's Gatwick Airport, EasyJet's largest base in its network, from 
which it has been operating since 2002.
Having fought for years to get the Irish low-cost carrier into a premier south eastern airport, O'Leary announced that 
Ryanair will bid for those slots at Gatwick released by British Airway's owner IAG as part of a condition of its 
takeover of Irish carrier Aer Lingus.
O'Leary told a news conference in Brussels: "We welcome the proposals by IAG that they would surrender some 
slots in Gatwick. We will certainly be bidding for the slots and we would certainly want to expand services we offer 
at Gatwick."
IAG gained approval for its (EURO)1.3bn bid for Aer Lingus after agreeing further competition concessions, which 
included giving up five slots at London's second largest airport.
EasyJet is Gatwick's biggest customer, with 58 aircraft. While London Stansted is Ryanair's largest base, Gatwick 
already acts as one of the airlines largest nonbase airports.
Ryanair is to receive (EURO)400m for its 25 per cent stake in Aer Lingus. The cash is expected to be split between 
shareholders and plane payments.
Ryanair shares are up almost 100 per cent on a year ago.
Ryanair 's pitch for Gatwick slots sparks fresh battle with EasyJet
Graphic
 
EasyJet is defending its home turf at Gatwick airport as rival Ryanair looks to take slots
Load-Date: July 16, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to bid for IAG slots at London's Gatwick Ryanair to bid ...
Ryanair to bid for IAG slots at London's Gatwick; Ryanair to bid ...
Business World (Digest)
July 15, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 262 words
Highlight: Ryanair will bid for the slots IAG has agreed to release at London's Gatwick airport as a condition of its 
takeover of Aer Lingus, Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said on Wednesday.
Body
Ryanair will bid for the slots IAG has agreed to release at London's Gatwick airport as a condition of its takeover of 
Aer Lingus, Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said on Wednesday.
IAG, which owns British Airways, gained EU approval for its 1.3-billion-euro bid for Ireland's Aer Lingus on Tuesday 
after agreeing to improve concessions to ease competition concerns, including giving up five slots at the London 
airport.
"We welcome the proposals by IAG that they would surrender some slots in Gatwick. We will certainly be bidding 
for the slots and we would certainly want to expand services we offer at Gatwick," O'Leary told a news conference 
in Brussels.
Irish budget airline Ryanair said it would accept IAG's offer for its 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus last week. The 
takeover had been conditional on the backing of Ryanair and the Irish government, which agreed to sell its 25 
percent stake in May. O'Leary said Ryanair did not expect to receive the 400 million euros of proceeds for its stake 
until September, and he said the board would then consider how to spend it. "Speaking personally I'll be advocating 
that we use the proceeds to help us pay down aircraft, but there's clearly some interest among our shareholders 
that they will get some of the proceeds as well," O'Leary said. "The board I'm sure will be generous and do 
whatever is in the best interest of Ryanair's shareholders." Ryanair last year placed an order for up to 200 new 
Boeing planes and is targeting 50 percent growth in passenger numbers by 2019. (Reuters) Source: 
www.businesssworld.ie
Load-Date: July 20, 2015
Ryanair to bid for IAG slots at London's Gatwick Ryanair to bid ...
End of Document
EU Commission approves IAG takeover of Aer Lingus EU Commission a...
EU Commission approves IAG takeover of Aer Lingus; EU Commission a...
Business World (Digest)
July 15, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 340 words
Highlight: IAG has gained European Union antitrust approval for its 1.3-billion-euro bid for Irish carrier Aer Lingus 
after agreeing to make concessions to ease competition worries, the EU Commission said on Tuesday.
Body
IAG has gained European Union antitrust approval for its 1.3-billion-euro bid for Irish carrier Aer Lingus after 
agreeing to make concessions to ease competition worries, the EU Commission said on Tuesday.
IAG's plan to buy Aer Lingus and build a new transatlantic hub at Dublin airport won the support last week of 
Ryanair, which holds a 30 percent stake in its rival, after convincing the Irish government to sell its 25 percent stake 
in May.
Reuters reported on Friday that British Airways-owner IAG was set to win approval after improving concessions, 
including giving up some airport slots in London and agreeing to special agreements with rivals, clearing the last 
hurdle for a takeover that dragged on for months.
"These commitments adequately address all competition concerns identified by the Commission," the Commission 
said in a statement. The Commission said it had concerns that the merged entity would have faced insufficient 
competition on several routes and that it would have also prevented Aer Lingus from continuing to provide traffic to 
the long-haul flights of competing airlines. It confirmed on Tuesday that IAG had submitted commitments to release 
five daily slots at London's Gatwick airport to facilitate the entry of competing airlines on routes from London to 
Dublin and Belfast. IAG also made a commitment to enter into agreements with competing airlines which operate 
long-haul flights out of Britain, the Netherlands and Ireland so that Aer Lingus will continue to provide these airlines 
with connecting passengers. Ireland's transport minister welcomed the decision and said officials would review it in 
order to confirm that there is no impact on the connectivity commitments the government agreed with IAG to win 
sceptical MPs over. Adding Aer Lingus to its portfolio of airlines - British Airways (BA), Iberia and Spanish budget 
carrier Vueling - opens a new avenue of growth for IAG, allowing it to expand capacity on lucrative transatlantic 
routes by using Dublin Airport. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
EU Commission approves IAG takeover of Aer Lingus EU Commission a...
Load-Date: July 20, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus Responds To Decision By UK Competition Appeal Tribunal
Aer Lingus Responds To Decision By UK Competition Appeal Tribunal
RTT News (United States)
July 15, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 210 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Aer Lingus Group plc (AERL.L) noted today's judgment by the UK Competition Appeal Tribunal 
dismissing Ryanair Holdings plc.'s (RYA.L, RYAAY) challenge to the decision of the Competition and Markets 
Authority or "CMA" which confirmed that there has been no material change in circumstances or special reason for 
it not to implement the findings of its Final Report of 28th August 2013 in which it concluded that Ryanair must 
reduce its 29.8% stake in Aer Lingus to 5%.
This follows yesterday's decision by the UK Supreme Court refusing Ryanair's application for permission to appeal 
against the Court of Appeal's judgment of 12 February 2015. That judgment upheld the UK Competition 
Commission's Report that ruled Ryanair's shareholding in Aer Lingus to be anti-competitive and required it to sell 
down its 29.82% stake in Aer Lingus to 5%.
On Tuesday, The European Commission has cleared proposed acquisition of Irish airline Aer Lingus Group Plc. by 
International Consolidated Airlines Group (ICAGY.PK, IAG.L). But, the clearance is conditional upon commitments 
offered by the parties to address the Commission's concerns regarding the transaction.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 15, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair quits Copenhagen after union dispute Airlines
Ryanair quits Copenhagen after union dispute; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 15, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 22
Length: 257 words
Byline: David Crouch in Gothenburg
Body
Ryanair carried out its threat to quit Copenhagen airport yesterday in a dispute with trade unions that threatens to 
drive the airline out of Denmark.
The Irish budget carrier also repeated its pledge to close its base at the country's Billund airport on Friday if union 
action is not called off.
Danish unions have claimed that Ryanair cabin crew earn less than half the wages of rival local low-cost airlines.
They won a ruling in a labour court this month that allows them to strike and blockade Ryanair aircraft if the airline 
refuses to sign a collective agreement with staff.
Eddie Wilson , the airline's personnel director, said that closure plans at Billund will go ahead unless the unions 
respond by this evening.
"We are sad because we have had a successful base for three years in Billund without problems, but we are being 
blackmailed," he said.
More than 100 staff would relocate in Europe, said Mr Wilson, although Ryanair would continue to fly from Billund.
The union called the threat a "media stunt". "For just DKr37 extra per ticket Ryanair could get an agreement," the 
union told Danish business daily Borsen.
Ryanair quits Copenhagen after union dispute Airlines
Ryanair's sole Copenhagen-based aircraft will now operate out of Kaunas in Lithuania, but the airline will continue 
to fly to Copenhagen.
The company yesterday reiterated its threat of taking its appeal to the European Court of Justice.
Ryanair said: "What these actions show is that the Danish model cannot be applied to mobile transport workers, 
especially when it has already failed in the past at other Danish airlines."
Load-Date: July 14, 2015
End of Document
EU approves IAG bid for Aer Lingus; IN BRIEF
EU approves IAG bid for Aer Lingus; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
July 15, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 75 words
Body
? IAG has gained European Union antitrust approval for its (EURO)1.3bn (£915m) bid for Irish carrier Aer Lingus 
after agreeing to make concessions to ease competition worries, the EU Commission said yesterday. IAG's plan to 
buy Aer Lingus and build a new transatlantic hub at Dublin airport won the support last week of Ryanair, which 
holds a 30 per cent stake in its rival, after convincing the Irish government to sell its 25 per cent stake in May.
Load-Date: July 15, 2015
End of Document
IAG green light: Path is cleared for Aer Lingus takeover
IAG green light: Path is cleared for Aer Lingus takeover
Financial Times (London, England)
July 15, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 17
Length: 159 words
Byline: Vincent Boland
Body
International Airlines Group's EUR1.4bn takeover of Aer Lingus cleared its final hurdle as the European 
Commission gave its approval of the purchase, writes Vincent Boland.
The commission's assent depends on concessions that IAG has agreed to make on routes from London to Ireland. 
The move brings to an end a near seven-month campaign by Willie Walsh , the former pilot who runs the parent of 
British Airways and Iberia, to win control of the Irish carrier.
Mr Walsh has already secured the backing of the Irish government for the takeover and for the sale of the Irish 
state's 25 per cent stake in Aer Lingus.
Meanwhile, Ryanair, which owns nearly 30 per cent of its rival Irish carrier, said last week that it was ready to sell its 
holding to IAG.
The clearance of one of the biggest takeovers of an Irish company will be welcomed by Dublin. It backed the sale in 
the teeth of political and trade union opposition to the deal.
Ryanair quits Copenhagen, page 22
Load-Date: July 14, 2015
IAG green light: Path is cleared for Aer Lingus takeover
End of Document
European Commission clears Aer Lingus takeover
European Commission clears Aer Lingus takeover
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 14, 2015 Tuesday 8:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 240 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
LONDON (AP) - The European Commission on Tuesday cleared the takeover of Irish airline Aer Lingus by 
International Airlines Group after securing measures to address competition concerns.
The commission said the deal was cleared after IAG agreed to give up some of its slots at London's Gatwick airport 
to allow rival airlines to operate the busy routes between London and Ireland.
"By obtaining significant concessions from the airlines the commission has ensured that air passengers will 
continue to have a choice of airlines at competitive prices after IAG's takeover of Aer Lingus," said Margrethe 
Vestager, European Commissioner in charge of competition policy.
IAG, which also owns British Airways and Spain's Iberia, agreed to release five daily slot pairs at Gatwick.
The carrier would also make agreements with rival airlines operating long haul flights out of airports including 
London, Manchester and Amsterdam so that Aer Lingus can continue to provide those airlines with connecting 
passengers.
IAG unveiled its 1.3 billion-euro ($1.45 billion) takeover bid for Aer Lingus in January.
The European Commission's approval came after Irish budget carrier Ryanair agreed on Friday to sell its nearly 30 
percent stake in Aer Lingus to IAG.
That cleared a major hurdle in the deal - IAG had made its takeover bid conditional on acceptance by Ryanair. It 
also formally ended Ryanair's own nine-year effort to seize its Dublin-based competitor.
Load-Date: July 15, 2015
End of Document
EU Approves Acquisition Of Aer Lingus By IAG
EU Approves Acquisition Of Aer Lingus By IAG
RTT News (United States)
July 14, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 328 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European Commission has cleared proposed acquisition of Irish airline Aer Lingus Group Plc. 
(AERL.L) by International Consolidated Airlines Group (ICAGY.PK, IAG.L). But, the clearance is conditional upon 
commitments offered by the parties to address the Commission's concerns regarding the transaction.
The approval comes after Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA.L, RYAAY) confirmed on Friday that it voted unanimously to 
accept the IAG offer for Ryanair's 29.8% shareholding in Aer Lingus Group.
IAG is the holding company of British Airways, Iberia and Vueling.
The Commission had concerned that the merged entity would have faced insufficient competition on several routes. 
The Commission also found that the merged entity would have prevented Aer Lingus from continuing to provide 
traffic to the long-haul flights of competing airlines on several routes.
The clearance decision is conditional upon the commitments, which address the Commission's concerns: the 
release of five daily slot pairs at London-Gatwick airport to facilitate the entry of competing airlines on routes from 
London to both Dublin and Belfast ; and Aer Lingus continuing to carry connecting passengers to use the long-haul 
flights of competing airlines out of London-Heathrow, London-Gatwick, Manchester, Amsterdam, Shannon and 
Dubli.
In May, International Consolidated Airlines Group said it reached agreement on the terms of a recommended cash 
offer with Aer Lingus Group. Aer Lingus shareholders would receive 2.55 euros in cash for each Aer Lingus share, 
comprising a cash payment of 2.50 euro per Aer Lingus share and the payment of a cash dividend of 0.05 euro per 
Aer Lingus share, payable on May 29 to Aer Lingus Shareholders on the register of members on May 1. The 
transaction valued Aer Lingus' entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital at around 1.4 billion euros.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 15, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus Announces UK Supreme Court Decision On Ryanair's Shareholding
Aer Lingus Announces UK Supreme Court Decision On Ryanair's 
Shareholding
RTT News (United States)
July 14, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 84 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Aer Lingus Group plc (AERL.L) noted today's decision by the UK Supreme Court refusing Ryanair's 
application for permission to appeal against the Court of Appeal's judgment of 12 February 2015. That judgment 
upheld the UK Competition Commission's Report that ruled Ryanair's shareholding in Aer Lingus to be anti-
competitive and required it to sell down its 29.82% stake in Aer Lingus to 5%.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 14, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces new service from Edinburgh to Copenhagen
Ryanair announces new service from Edinburgh to Copenhagen
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 14, 2015 Tuesday 7:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 153 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced extension to its Edinburgh winter 2015 schedule with a new route to 
Copenhagen, which will operate three times weekly, effective November 6, 2015.
Body
This is in addition to 2 new winter routes to Frankfurt Hahn and Santander (19 in total) and increased frequency on 
its Edinburgh to London service from 4 to 5 times daily, which will deliver 2million customers p.a. and support 2,000 
"on-site" jobs at Edinburgh Airport. Ryanair's Sales and Marketing Manager, Maria Macken said: "Ryanair is 
pleased to announce further extension to our winter 2015 schedule at Edinburgh with a new route to Copenhagen 
in Denmark, which is on sale on the Ryanair.com website today. Ryanair's new Copenhagen route will operate 
three times weekly from 6 November. "To celebrate our new route to Copenhagen, we are releasing seats for sale 
from just GBP19.99 for travel from 5 November to 6 December, which are available for booking until midnight 
Tuesday (7 July). Since these amazing low fares will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto 
www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: July 20, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to launch three new routes from Eilat Ovda Airport, Israel
Ryanair to launch three new routes from Eilat Ovda Airport, Israel
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 13, 2015 Monday 8:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 184 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that it will launch three new routes from Eilat Ovda Airport, Israel to 
Budapest, Kaunas and Krakow, effective November 2015.
Body
Ryanair's Israeli operations will deliver: 3 new routes to Budapest (2 x weekly), Kaunas (2 x weekly) & Krakow (2 x 
weekly); 6 weekly return flights to/from Eilat Ovda Airport; and 40,000 customers p.a. Ryanair customers can enjoy 
allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, an improved website and app with mobile boarding 
passes, and Ryanair's Family Extra and Business Plus services, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, 
business and leisure travellers. Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, David O'Brien said: "Ryanair is pleased to 
announce our entry into the Israeli market from November 2015, our 31st country, with three new Eilat Ovda routes 
to Budapest, Kaunas and Krakow, which will deliver 40,000 customers annually. "We are continuing to negotiate 
with the Israeli authorities and we look forward to growing our Israeli route network in the future. To celebrate our 3 
new Eilat Ovda routes we are releasing seats on sale from just E29.99for travel in November and December which 
are available for booking from tomorrow, Wednesday 8 July until midnight Friday (10 July)."
Load-Date: July 19, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
July 12, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 641 words
Body
**Permanent TSB sells off non-core loans**
Permanent TSB has agreed to sell a portfolio of non-core Irish commercial property loans with a par value of EUR 
481 million to Cheldon Property Finance, an investment vehicle established and managed by CarVal Investors 
private equity group.
Permanent TSB said the deal meant that it has now completed the sale of EUR 2.5 billion worth of Irish-based 
loans, plus EUR 3.5 billion of British-based loans in the past eight months.
According to the bank's chief executive, Jeremy Masding, the sale of the non-core loans will allow the bank to    
concentrate our activities on our core retail banking business in Ireland  .
In a broker note published last week Goodbody said the sale was a    positive move from PTSB and leaves the 
bank well ahead of its deleveraging target  .
   It also highlights the continued interest in Irish assets which bodes well for any further deleveraging plans,   
Goodbody noted.
...........................
**Ryanair backs IAG shareholding offer**
Ryanair's board has voted unanimously to accept IAG's offer for the airline's 29.8 per cent shareholding in Aer 
Lingus.
In a statement, Ryanair said that it will vote in favour of the motion at the Aer Lingus extraordinary general meeting 
on Thursday.
Boardroom Briefing
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said that IAG's offer for Aer Lingus was    a reasonable one   in the current 
market.    The price means that Ryanair will make a small profit on its investment in Aer Lingus over the past nine 
years,   he said.
...........................
**Hibernia Reit and FBD agree deal**
Property investment company Hibernia Reit has agreed a deal with FBD for the early surrender of the insurer's 
leasehold interest in an IFSC office building.
The deal will see FBD pay Hibernia EUR 8.8 million for the early surrender of its leasehold interest in Guild House 
in Dublin's IFSC. According to a statement from Hibernia, the EUR 8.8 million surrender payment includes a break 
penalty equal to one year's rent.
Meanwhile, Green Reit has confirmed that Central Park in Dublin's Leopardstown is now fully let, after it secured 
two new tenants for the office park.
   In addition, the construction of the new Block H, an office block of 147,000 square feet of lettable area, is 
progressing well, with completion expected in December 2016,   the property investment company said in a 
statement.
...........................
**Revenue up at Grafton Group**
Builders merchants and DIY group Grafton Group has reported revenue of £1.08 billion for the six months to June 
30, an increase of 6.6 per cent on the same period last year and 9.5 per cent in constant currency.
The Dublin-based, London-listed firm said markets remained competitive, with the positive impact from higher 
volumes in traditional merchanting business partially offset by a lower gross margin due to    competition and mix 
changes  .
Grafton said its Irish business continued to perform    ahead of improving trends   as strong growth in the residential 
repair, maintenance and improvement market was complemented by a modest recovery in housebuilding and 
increased activity in the non-residential and infrastructure markets.
...........................
**Profits in line with expectations at CPL**
Recruitment company CPL Resources expects its pre-tax profits for the year to the end of June to be about EUR 13 
million, in line with its expectations.
In a short trading update, the company said it continues to see growth in revenues and gross profit.
The company said it is continuing to invest in future growth and noted that it employs 5 per cent more people than it 
did this time last year.
In a broker note, Davy Stockbrokers said the update was an    encouraging early endorsement of CPL's ongoing 
operational investment, and its internal focus on improved consultant productivity and earnings conversion  .
Load-Date: July 13, 2015
End of Document
Saturday Papers: Greek parliament agrees to bailout reform plan
Saturday Papers: Greek parliament agrees to bailout reform plan
Citywire
July 11, 2015 Saturday 4:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 908 words
Body
Top stories The Daily Telegraph: Greece's Left-wing Syriza government has agreed to draconian austerity terms 
rejected by the Greek people in a landslide referendum just five days ago, capping one of the most bizarre political 
episodes of modern times. Financial Times: Ryanair on Friday announced it had accepted International Airlines 
Group's takeover offer for Aer Lingus, after years of wrangling with UK competition authorities over the budget 
airline's stake in the Irish flag carrier. The Guardian: A US judge has told Petrobras bosses to prepare for a $98 
billion lawsuit over allegations that executives at the Brazilian oil company and senior politicians were involved in a 
huge money-laundering and corruption scheme dubbed Operation Carwash. Financial Times: The chancellor has 
commissioned an independent review of Britain's economic statistics, led by Sir Charlie Bean, former deputy 
governor of the Bank of England, after a litany of failures and missteps at the Office for National Statistics. 
Financial Times: Beijing's all-out campaign to avert an equity market collapse finally showed signs of bearing fruit 
on Friday as Shanghai stocks recorded their biggest two-day gain since the financial crisis. The Daily Telegraph: 
British bank Barclays may not pick its next chief executive until early next year, potentially leaving new Chairman 
John McFarlane in charge for at least eight months. The Daily Telegraph: Oil prices are set to come under further 
pressure from easing global demand and an expanding glut of crude while a rebalancing of the markets may last 
well into next year, the International Energy Agency has said. Business and economics The Guardian: Tesco is 
promising to reward staff with a one-off turnaround bonus worth up to 5% of their salary if they hit sales and profit 
targets this year. The Guardian: The UK has been left with just one deep coal mine after the closure of the last pit in 
Nottinghamshire, with the loss of hundreds of jobs. The Guardian: Ben Goldsmith, brother of Conservative MP and 
environmental campaigner Zac Goldsmith, is floating an investment fund backed by high-profile business figures to 
invest in green businesses. Daily Mail: Britain's trade deficit with the rest of the world has narrowed to its lowest 
level for nearly two years, official figures showed. Daily Mail: Britain's trade deficit with the rest of the world has 
narrowed to its lowest level for nearly two years, official figures showed. Daily Mail: The euro soared and Greek 
borrowing costs tumbled last night on hopes of a last-ditch deal to save the stricken country from going bust. The 
Independent: The biggest mining companies traded in London were among the beneficiaries yesterday as China 
put a temporary halt to its stock market rout and metal prices rebounded; Glencore, which was also helped by a 
broker upgrade, Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Anglo American all rose as Chinese marketsrallied for a second day. 
Financial Times: The US economic recovery has solid underpinnings and should strengthen in coming years, 
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said in a speech on Friday, as she reiterated arguments for an increase in 
short-term interest rates later this year. Financial Times: Swiss prosecutors travelled to Guinea to interview 
witnesses to an alleged bribery scheme that culminated in the award of mining rights to BSG Resources, an arm of 
Israeli tycoon Beny Steinmetz's business empire. Financial Times: Standard Life has moved to reassure investors 
Saturday Papers: Greek parliament agrees to bailout reform plan
concerned about a hit to its retirement business after George Osborne launched a raid on pensions tax relief for 
high earners. Financial Times: Microsoft admitted this week that it missed the mobile market, but analysts believe it 
has a better chance in what might be the next big technology platform: virtual reality. Financial Times: Sirius 
Minerals is looking at ways to expand the capacity of its fertiliser mining project in Yorkshire by 50%, days after 
gaining a key planning approval. Financial Times: Shares in Flow Traders soared more than 12% on its debut as 
the Dutch group became the first high-frequency trader to list in Europe. Financial Times: French Connection's 
struggles continued on Friday as the fashion retailer lost Adam Castleton, its finance director, to LSL Property 
Services. The Daily Telegraph: Apple is set to release its fastest ever iPod Touch next week, bringing the device up 
to date with the iPhone maker's other hi-tech products. The Daily Telegraph: Depressed platinum prices and 
bearish broker notes dragged shares in Lonmin Group to its lowest level since listing on the London Stock 
Exchange in 1982. The Daily Telegraph: Associated British Foods has joined the wave of blue-chip companies 
moving to a new auditor, ending its 80-year tie to KPMG ahead of new rules that will force big firms to switch 
provider. Share tips, comment and bids Financial Times: InterContinental Hotels Group has agreed to sell the 
InterContinental Hong Kong for $938 million, the latest in a line of disposals of its five-star flagship properties as it 
fends off the attentions of circling activist investors. Financial Times (Lex): UK housebuilders: can we build it? 
Financial Times (Lex): Personal computers: bad memories. Financial Times (Lex): Mining M&A: mine or yours? 
Financial Times (Lex): Intercontinental Hotel Group: reservations. The Guardian (Comment): Germany won't spare 
Greek pain it has an interest in breaking us.
Load-Date: July 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair accepts IAG offer for Aer Lingus Airlines
Ryanair accepts IAG offer for Aer Lingus; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 11, 2015 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 8
Length: 352 words
Byline: Elizabeth Paton, Nathalie Thomas and Tanya Powley
Body
Ryanair announced yesterday it had accepted International Airlines Group's takeover offer for Aer Lingus, after 
years of wrangling with UK competition authorities over the budget airline's stake in the Irish flag carrier.
The decision by Ryanair, Aer Lingus's largest shareholder, to sell its 29.8 per cent stake in the flag carrier removes 
what should be the last significant hurdle for IAG's EUR1.36bn takeover, although it still has to be approved by 
competition authorities.
Ryanair yesterday said its board had accepted IAG's offer. It comprises a cash payment of EUR2.50 per Aer Lingus 
share, plus a dividend of EUR0.05 per share.
"We believe the IAG offer for Aer Lingus is a reasonable one in the current market and we plan to accept it, in the 
best interests of Ryanair shareholders," said Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive.
Ryanair paid EUR407m amassing its Aer Lingus stake. Based on IAG's offer price for Aer Lingus, Ryanair would 
receive about EUR406m for its stake, having previously been paid dividends by the flag carrier worth EUR18m.
The Irish government, which holds a 25.1 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, agreed in May to sell its shareholding to 
IAG, leaving Ryanair as the last big potential obstacle to a takeover.
Ryanair accepts IAG offer for Aer Lingus Airlines
Ryanair has tried to buy Aer Lingus on three occasions over the past decade, only to be twice thwarted by 
competition authorities, most recently in 2013.
Last month the Competition and Markets Authority, the UK watchdog, issued a final order to Ryanair to sell down its 
stake in Aer Lingus to below 5 per cent following lengthy regulatory scrutiny and opposition by the budget airline.
The CMA was concerned Ryanair's stake could impede a bid for Aer Lingus, but Mr O'Leary said last month the 
watchdog's ruling was "completely bloody bogus", pointing to the IAG offer.
Ryanair plans to continue to appeal the CMA decision because of concerns it could set a precedent for future deals.
Shareholders in Aer Lingus have until July 16 to accept IAG's offer. IAG, the parent company of British Airways and 
Iberia, will now wait for a ruling on the offer from the European Commission.
Load-Date: July 10, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to sell Aer Lingus stake to rival IAG
Ryanair to sell Aer Lingus stake to rival IAG
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 10, 2015 Friday 9:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 395 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Ryanair has agreed to sell its shares in Irish rival Aer Lingus to IAG, putting the British Airways 
parent solidly on course to acquire the former Irish national airline.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said Friday that the budget airline's board has voted unanimously to sell 
its nearly 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus, formally ending Ryanair's own nine-year effort to seize its Dublin-based 
competitor. British and European competition authorities had repeatedly blocked Ryanair's effort and ordered 
Ryanair to divest itself, but O'Leary still was fighting those rulings in various courts.
O'Leary called the IAG offer "a reasonable one in the current market" that would allow Ryanair, Europe's fastest-
growing airline, to record "a small profit."
International Airlines Group unveiled its 1.3 billion euro ($1.45 billion) takeover bid for Aer Lingus in January. The 
bid now has won acceptance from all three key investors: top shareholder Ryanair; Aer Lingus' own board; and the 
Irish government, which retained a 25 percent stake when it privatized the airline in 2006.
IAG, which also owns Spain's Iberia airline, had made its takeover bid conditional on acceptance by Ryanair. It 
offered no immediate reaction to Ryanair's decision.
Grass-roots shareholders are expected to back the offer at a Dublin extraordinary general meeting Thursday. The 
deal still requires approval by European Union competition regulators.
IAG already has agreed to a package of concessions to Irish interests to win support from the government. These 
include giving the government an indefinite right to veto the sale of Aer Lingus' strategic landing slots at London's 
Heathrow Airport and a guarantee that those slots will be used to operate Irish routes for at least the next seven 
years.
Aer Lingus owns the fourth-most slots at Heathrow, Europe's busiest hub. Industry analysts have estimated their 
value alone at 450 million euros ($500 million).
Ryanair to sell Aer Lingus stake to rival IAG
IAG also has pledged to increase trans-Atlantic traffic operating from Ireland, boosting tourism and business 
opportunities for the island nation, which is heavily dependent on air links.
IAG chief executive Willie Walsh, a Dubliner, previously held the same position at Aer Lingus.
Shares in Ryanair and IAG rose more than 2 percent Friday, while Aer Lingus rose more moderately to IAG's bid 
price of 2.50 ($2.80) per share.
Load-Date: July 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair says will rebase Copenhagen aircraft over union action Ryanair says wi...
Ryanair says will rebase Copenhagen aircraft over union action; Ryanair 
says wi...
Business World (Digest)
July 10, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 281 words
Highlight: Ryanair confirmed on Friday that it will shift its Copenhagen staffing to Lithuania next week in response 
to planned industrial action by Danish trade unions over working conditions.
Body
Ryanair confirmed on Friday that it will shift its Copenhagen staffing to Lithuania next week in response to planned 
industrial action by Danish trade unions over working conditions.
The unions want Ryanair's staff in Copenhagen to work under a Danish collective agreement, offering what they 
say are more attractive conditions than those the airline sets for its workers.
Ryanair, which deployed one aircraft in Copenhagen in March to fly to cities such as London and Cologne, has said 
previously that its pilots and cabin crew in Denmark enjoy high pay and job security.
"This is a black day for the Danish economy. Here you have Danish unions, who admit they don't have any 
members in Ryanair, destroying highly paid jobs for Danish pilots and cabin crew," Eddie Wilson, Ryanair's head of 
personnel, said in a statement. The airline has said it would continue to fly out of Copenhagen, but with the aircraft 
and staff based in Lithuania. A Danish court ruled last week that unions could conduct sympathy action and the 
unions pledged to do so after talks with Ryanair broke down. A spokesman for LO, an umbrella group of unions, 
pointed out on Friday that the court ruling applied to the whole of the country and industrial action could also take 
place at Ryanair's base in Billund, western Denmark. The action planned for July 18 and 23 may yet be averted, 
however. "Ryanair says a lot of things," LO press chief Kenneth Nielson said. "... The only thing we can take action 
over is what they do." Ryanair has previously said it would also rebase its Billund operations, which it has been 
running for several years, should unions take action there.(Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 15, 2015
Ryanair says will rebase Copenhagen aircraft over union action Ryanair says wi...
End of Document
Britain 's FTSE hits one week high Britain 's FTSE ...
Britain's FTSE hits one week high; Britain's FTSE ...
Business World (Digest)
July 10, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 320 words
Highlight: Britain's top share index climbed to its highest level in more than a week on Friday after Greece 
presented a tough reform package in its bid to seal a debt agreement, with energy and insurance stocks featuring 
among top gainers.
Body
Britain's top share index climbed to its highest level in more than a week on Friday after Greece presented a tough 
reform package in its bid to seal a debt agreement, with energy and insurance stocks featuring among top gainers.
The FTSE 100 index was up 1.3 percent at 6,6666.60 points by 1344 GMT after rising to 6,687.55 points, the 
highest since late June. The benchmark index closed 1.4 percent higher in the previous session.
The UK Oil and Gas index gained 1.1 percent after crude oil prices rose, lifted by a rebound in Chinese stocks and 
hopes of a breakthrough in the Greek debt crisis.
"For Greece, it looks like the majority of the euro zone want to find a compromise and this is boosting sentiment," 
said Tony Cross, market analyst at Trustnet Direct. Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras appealed to his party's 
lawmakers to back a tough reforms package after abruptly offering last-minute concessions to try to save the 
country from financial meltdown. "Even with Grexit off the table, untold political damage has been done over the 
past week or so amongst Greece and other member states. A deal, should it finally be struck, will certainly be 
bullish for stocks," said Ipek Ozkardeskaya, analyst at London Capital Group. InterContinental Hotels Group gained 
3 percent after the company said it had agreed to sell InterContinental Hong Kong to a consortium of investors for 
dollar 938 million and may return some of the proceeds to shareholders. IAG, the owner of British Airways, rose 2.4 
percent after budget airline Ryanair said it would accept an IAG offer for its stake in Aer Lingus, paving the way for 
the 1.3 billion-euro takeover of the Irish carrier to go ahead. Among other risers, housebuilders Taylor Wimpey and 
Barratt Developments climbed 1.7 and 1.2 percent respectively after the government announced measures to 
remove obstacles to building new homes. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Britain 's FTSE hits one week high Britain 's FTSE ...
Load-Date: July 15, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Extended Recent Gains On Greek Optimism
European Markets Extended Recent Gains On Greek Optimism
RTT News (United States)
July 10, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 797 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets ended Friday's session firmly in positive territory, adding to the gains of the 
previous two trading sessions. Investors remain optimistic that a solution to the Greek debt crisis is in sight. The 
continued recovery of the Chinese stock market and the positive performance of the U.S. equity markets also 
added to the positive mood among investors.
Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras submitted a cash-for-reforms proposal to creditors on Thursday that includes 
spending cuts, pension reforms and tax hikes in exchange for a 53.5 billion euro three-year bailout, a third for the 
country, acceptance of which will pave the way for further negotiations between both sides.
The Greek Parliament is set to discuss the proposal Friday evening and the vote outcome is expected early 
Saturday.
Eurozone finance ministers are scheduled meet on Saturday at 3 pm local time in Brussels to review the Greek 
request.
French President Francois Hollande described the Greek proposal as "serious, credible" in a Twitter post on Friday. 
The proposal showed "a determination to remain in the euro area," he added.
Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said he was more optimistic than before that an agreement will be struck 
between Greece and its creditors.
Meanwhile, Germany has been less upbeat regarding the new proposal, thanks to the Greek referendum that 
rejected austerity measures, and their stiff opposition to any debt relief for Greece. Some other eurozone members 
are also likely to oppose any debt write down for Greece.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has been silent on Friday regarding the new proposal.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased by 3.39 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 2.11 percent.
The DAX of Germany climbed by 2.90 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose by 3.07 percent. The FTSE of the 
U.K. gained 1.39 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 1.66 percent.
In Frankfurt, Deutsche Bank increased by 4.30 percent and Commerzbank gained 2.48 percent.
European Markets Extended Recent Gains On Greek Optimism
Deutsche Telekom advanced by 5.13 percent and Deutsche Lufthansa climbed by 3.63 percent.
BASF rose by 4.26 percent and K+S finished higher by 3.79 percent.
In Paris, BNP Paribas gained 4.03 percent and Societe Generale added 3.65 percent. Credit Agricole also finished 
higher by 3.11 percent.
Orange surged by 4.91 percent and Alcatel-Lucent rose by 2.52 percent.
In London, Inter Continental Hotels rose by 3.07 percent. The company has agreed to sell its ownership interest in 
InterContinental Hong Kong for $938 million.
Smith & Nephew gained 0.90 percent, after it acquired the trauma and orthopaedics business of DeOst LLC and 
DC LLC.
Ryanair increased by 2.23 percent. The company's Board has voted unanimously to accept the IAG offer for 
Ryanair's 29.8% shareholding in Aer Lingus Group. IAG also finished higher by 3.21 percent.
Barclays climbed by 2.64 percent and Lloyds Banking Group added 0.92 percent. Standard Chartered gained 1.49 
percent and Royal Bank of Scotland increased by 0.58 percent.
Germany wholesale prices continued to decline in June, figures from Destatis showed Friday. Wholesale prices 
dropped 0.5 percent year-on-year in June, slightly faster than May's 0.4 percent fall. The wholesale price index has 
been falling since July 2013.
French industrial output recovered as expected in May, the statistical office Insee reported Friday. Industrial output 
grew 0.4 percent month-on-month in May, reversing a 0.8 percent fall in April. This was the fastest growth in three 
months. The monthly rate matched economists' expectations.
Britain's trade deficit in goods in May was the smallest in nearly two years as imports declined and exports 
remained unchanged, data from the Office for National Statistics showed Friday. The visible trade deficit for May 
was GBP 8 billion, which was the smallest shortfall since June 2013. It was also smaller than the GBP 9.7 billion 
deficit predicted by economists.
U.K. construction output declined for the second straight month in May, defying economists' expectations for an 
increase, data from the Office for National Statistics showed Friday. Construction output fell 1.3 percent month-
over-month in May, faster than previous month's 0.5 percent drop. Economists had expected a 0.8 percent climb for 
the month.
Wholesale inventories in the U.S. increased by much more than expected in the month of May, according to a 
report released by the Commerce Department on Friday. The report said wholesale inventories increased by 0.8 
percent in May after rising by 0.4 percent in April. Economists had expected inventories to rise by 0.3 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 10, 2015
End of Document
Markets rally as Greeks submit reform plan
Markets rally as Greeks submit reform plan
Citywire
July 10, 2015 Friday 11:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Body
Global markets have rallied after Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras submitted economic reform proposals to 
creditors in a last-ditch bid to release 53.5 billion (£38.5 billion) of bailout funds.
Analysts have claimed the new proposals, including VAT hikes and retirement age rises, represent a climbdown for 
the country, and raise the prospects of a deal being agreed by Sunday's deadline.
Markets surged on the news. The FTSE 100 jumped 72 points, or 1.1%, to 6,644 while eurozone markets raced 
higher. The French CAC 40 rose 2.9%, the German DAX 30 was 2.1% higher, Spain's Ibex jumped 2.9% and Italy's 
FTSE MIB was up 2.5%.
'The European markets have continued to run with the positive sentiment that crept in last night, opening above this 
week's open to near levels not seen since the end of June,' said Connor Campbell, financial analyst at Spreadex.
'The FTSE got to bask in the eurozone glow, jumping above its Monday open to recover nearly all of the week's 
losses. Another calm morning from the commodities sector should see the UK index maintain these gains; the 
bigger question will be if any course-altering kinks arise on the road to a potentially successful eurozone weekend.'
Global markets were also supported by the ongoing rebound in China stocks. The country's main stock market rose 
4.6% after Chinese regulators ordered listed companies to submit plans to stabilise their stock prices.
'In plain English, companies must explain how they will buy their own stock, namely through buybacks and 
management and employee purchase schemes,' said Jasper Lawler, market analyst at CMC Markets.
'The latest move in China has all the characteristics of a bear market rally. It's quite conceivable that when 
companies unhalt their shares and prices reach high enough for shareholders to get close to breakeven, those who 
are able to will sell out en masse and create the next leg down for Chinese markets.'
Almost all FTSE 100 stocks made gains, with International Airlines Group (ICAG) was among the biggest risers, up 
2.9% at 529.5p, as the British Airways owner moved a step closer to its 1.3 billion takeover of Aer Lingus (AER.I).
Budget airline Ryanair (RYA.I) said it would accept the offer for its 30% stake in the Irish airline, while Reuters 
reported that European Union regulators would approve the deal.
Markets rally as Greeks submit reform plan
InterContinental Hotels (IHG) was another big riser, up 3% at £26.83, after the company agreed to sell its Hong 
Kong hotel to a consortium of investors for $938 million (£605.6 million) and may return some of the cash to 
shareholders.
'This looks a very acceptable price (22 times earnings) to us and the achieved price is some $150 million above our 
expectation,' said Numis analyst Wyn Ellis.
Insurers and financial services groups rose up the index after analysts at Barclays upped their price targets for a 
number of stocks. Risers included:
Standard Life (SL) +3.5% at 449p; St James's Place (SJP) +2.3% at 937.5p; Legal & General (LGEN) +2.2% at 
262.8p; Prudential (PRU) +1.6% at £15.19. House builders also rose on news of new UK planning rules that could 
accelerate construction by giving central government the power to step in if local authorities drag their feet.
Taylor Wimpey (TW) rose 1.9% to 188.5p, Barratt Developments (BDEV) was up 1.7% at 631.2p and Persimmon 
(PSN) traded 1.2% higher at £19.77.
Load-Date: July 10, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair plans to accept IAG offer for Aer Lingus Ryanair plans t...
Ryanair plans to accept IAG offer for Aer Lingus; Ryanair plans t...
Business World (Digest)
July 10, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 158 words
Highlight: Budget airline Ryanair said it would accept IAG's offer for its stake in Aer Lingus, paving the way for the 
British Airways-owner's 1.3 billion euro takeover of the Irish carrier to go ahead.
Body
Budget airline Ryanair said it would accept IAG's offer for its stake in Aer Lingus, paving the way for the British 
Airways-owner's 1.3 billion euro takeover of the Irish carrier to go ahead.
European Union approval for the deal is now the last remaining hurdle to IAG's plan to buy Aer Lingus and build a 
new transatlantic hub at Dublin airport.
IAG's bid for Aer Lingus had been conditional on agreement from Europe's biggest budget airline Ryanair, which 
holds a 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus.
Ryanair said in its statement that it planned to vote in favor of accepting the IAG offer but that its vote was subject 
to the offer being approved by the European competition authorities. "We believe the IAG offer for Aer Lingus is a 
reasonable one in the current market and we plan to accept it, in the best interests of Ryanair shareholders," 
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said in a statement on Friday. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 15, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair To Accept IAG Offer For Ryanair 's 29.8% Shareholding In Aer Lingus
Ryanair To Accept IAG Offer For Ryanair's 29.8% Shareholding In Aer 
Lingus
RTT News (United States)
July 10, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 98 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The Board of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA.L, RYAAY) confirmed that it has voted unanimously to 
accept the IAG offer for Ryanair's 29.8% shareholding in Aer Lingus Group plc. Ryanair said it will now vote in 
favour of the motion at the Aer Lingus EGM.
Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "We believe the IAG offer for Aer Lingus is a reasonable one in the current market. 
The price means that Ryanair will make a small profit on its investment in Aer Lingus over the past 9 years."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 10, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair June passenger traffic increases 14%
Ryanair June passenger traffic increases 14%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 10, 2015 Friday 5:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 172 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of June 2015 was 9.5 million 
passengers, an increase of 14%, compared to 8.3 million passengers for June 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of June 2015 was 93%, an increase of five percentage points, compared to 88% for June 
2014. Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's June traffic grew by 14% to 9.5m customers, 
while our load factor jumped by 5% points to 93%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme, which continues 
to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded summer schedule. "Alongside our new 
routes, increased frequencies, Business Plus and Family Extra services, Ryanair customers can now look forward 
to further service enhancements, as we roll out Year 2 of our AGB programme in 2015, which includes a new 
website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms, improved inflight menus, reduced fees, and great new 
digital features such as 'hold the fare' and price comparison services, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more 
than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: July 17, 2015
End of Document
Danish unions vow action against Ryanair Danish unions ...
Danish unions vow action against Ryanair; Danish unions ...
Business World (Digest)
July 9, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 344 words
Highlight: Danish trade unions have said they would launch action at airports from which Ryanair flies that would 
effectively stop its services after, they said, the low-cost Irish airline refused to sign up to national collective 
agreements.
Body
Danish trade unions have said they would launch action at airports from which Ryanair flies that would effectively 
stop its services after, they said, the low-cost Irish airline refused to sign up to national collective agreements.
In the latest salvo in the months-long dispute, which began before Ryanair even started flying from Copenhagen, 
the unions said they will refuse services such as refuelling at Copenhagen on July 18 and at two airports in Jutland 
on July 23.
The budget airline's policy of employing people in countries such as Denmark under the less generous terms of its 
home nation has angered Danish labour unions.
The unions wanted the carrier to sign a Danish collective agreement with its locally-based pilots and cabin crew. 
Last week a court said the unions were allowed to refuse to service Ryanair flights if the carrier did not meet that 
demand. Ryanair said two days later it would re-base its single Copenhagen airplane but then agreed to fresh talks 
on Wednesday. Local media said the meeting lasted just eight minutes. "Ryanair has sadly flat out refused to enter 
an agreement with the union and ensure their employees pay and labour terms are in accordance with the Danish 
labour market," said Lizette Risgaard, chairwoman of the trade union umbrella group LO. "That's why LO now 
issues a second sympathy conflict warning," she said in a statement, referring to the action. The statement 
represents an escalation of the dispute, which has spilled over into the twittersphere after municipalities banned 
their workers from using the airline for work. Previously the threat had only been for action at Copenhagen. Ryanair 
began flying from there in March this year but had been flying for several years out of Billund and Aarhus, both in 
the west of the country, with no complaints. Ryanair did not immediately respond to a request for comment. It is 
unclear whether it had already re-based its Copenhagen workers out of the country and if so, whether the sympathy 
action would be legal in the capital. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Danish unions vow action against Ryanair Danish unions ...
Load-Date: July 14, 2015
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
July 8, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 528 words
Body
Karen Cook takes senior Goldman role At a time when senior dealmakers are increasingly fleeing big banks for 
smaller advisory firms, Goldman Sachs is making sure that Karen Cook, its star mergers and acquisitions banker, is 
staying put. The US bank has named Cook, 61, chairman of its investment banking division, making the 
experienced rainmaker one of the most senior women at Goldman.
Novartis wins approval for heart pill Novartis has received approval for Entresto, its heart-failure pill, from US 
regulators, paving the way for it to launch what analysts are touting as a blockbuster drug. The Food and Drug 
Administration approved the medicine for heart failure patients with "reduced ejection fraction" - the term for when 
the heart does not contract properly, meaning less oxygen rich blood is pumped into the body.
Ryanair to launch flights to Israel Ryanair is to launch six flights a week from three central European cities to Israel, 
making it the latest European low-cost airline to capitalise on the country's liberalisation of its market. The airline 
said it would begin offering two flights weekly starting in November from Budapest, Kaunas and Krakow to Israel's 
Ovda airport, near the Red Sea resort town of Eilat. The decision came after consultations with Israeli tourism and 
aviation officials, who are trying to broaden Israel's appeal to tourists.
Carnival sets sail for Havana Cuba is on the horizon for Carnival Corporation. The world's biggest cruise operator 
said yesterday that it had been granted US government approval to start operations to the Caribbean island. The 
company said that, subject to Cuban approval, it will launch cruises from next May using its Fathom brand.
Brics build power base in Ivan's fortress Vladimir Putin will sit down to dinner in a remote corner of Russia this 
evening with the heads of his fellow Brics nations intent on showing the West that the bloc of emerging powers is 
the coming force in world affairs.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
Watchdog cracks down on bankers Thousands more financial traders will be monitored by banks and the Financial 
Conduct Authority under the certification regime, the City watchdog has announced, as it cracks down on the 
wholesale markets following the forex manipulation scandal. Regulators are consulting on plans which would 
extend tighter regulation to 150,000 financiers in the fixed income, currencies and commodities markets.
Bramson spared making bid for Electra Edward Bramson, the rebel investor, has ramped up pressure on private 
equity firm Electra as part of a renewed campaign to gain two board seats.
Libor benchmark still broken Nearly five years after the emergence of a raterigging scandal that cost banks more 
than $7bn (£4.5bn) in fines, the financial benchmark at the heart of the affair remains broken. A top UK regulator 
says efforts to overhaul Libor have not gone far enough and the US Federal Reserve says it is no longer fit to serve 
as the market's main benchmark.
Australia's slump socks apparel chains Global clothing brands such as Zara and H&M are finding the going tough in 
Australia. The labels were drawn down under by more than two decades of economic expansion in Australia.
Load-Date: July 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair set to fly from central Europe to Israel Airlines
Ryanair set to fly from central Europe to Israel; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 8, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 288 words
Byline: John Reed in Tel Aviv
Body
Ryanair is to launch six flights a week to Israel from three central European cities, making it the latest low-cost 
airline to capitalise on the country's liberalisation of its market.
It said that from November it would offer two weekly flights from each of Hungary's capital Budapest, Kaunas in 
Lithuania and Krakow, Poland, to Israel's Ovda airport, near the Red Sea resort of Eilat.
The decision came after consultations with Israeli tourism and aviation officials, who are trying to broaden Israel's 
appeal to tourists, following a drop in foreign visitors since last summer's war in the Gaza Strip. Israel's government 
announced in April that it would be offering a EUR45 per passenger incentive to airlines flying into Eilat, where 
visitor numbers are sharply down since the assault on Gaza.
Ryanair said it would aim to deliver 40,000 passengers a year to Eilat, which struggles to compete with rival beach 
destinations such as the Canary Islands and Morocco because of perceived political risks, and because there are 
so few direct flights.
"People don't want to take two flights to go somewhere when they can go to the Canaries in one flight," David 
O'Brien, the airline's chief commercial officer, said.
Ryanair set to fly from central Europe to Israel Airlines
Mr O'Brien said Ryanair chose the three central European cities because of the region's growing disposable income 
and market for leisure products. He said the airline, which aims to carry 100m passengers this year, was 
considering operating flights in future to Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport, Israel's main hub.
Israel signed an Open Skies agreement with the EU in 2013, opening the way for more direct flights with European 
countries. Rival low-cost airlines EasyJet, Wizz Air and Norwegian all operate flights to Tel Aviv.
Load-Date: July 7, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to open new base at Gothenburg
Ryanair to open new base at Gothenburg
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 8, 2015 Wednesday 9:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 135 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will open a new base at Gothenburg, No. 74, from September 
2015.
Body
From September, Ryanair will open a base in Gothenburg and deliver: 1 based aircraft ($100m); 13 routes in total; 
Extra frequencies to/from London (from 2 to 3 x daily flights); 600,000 customers p.a.; and 600 on-site jobs. Ryanair 
celebrated the launch of its new Gothenburg base by releasing seats for sale on its increased Gothenburg route to 
London Stansted at prices starting from 129 SEK for travel in September, which must be booked by Thursday (2 
July). In Gothenburg, Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is pleased to open a new Gothenburg base from 
September, our second base in Sweden, with one base aircraft and 13 routes, which will deliver 600,000 customers 
p.a. and support 600 jobs at Gothenburg Airport. Our Gothenburg - London route will also increase from 2 to 3 
flights daily from September."
Load-Date: July 14, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair celebrates 30th birthday Ryanair celebra...
Ryanair celebrates 30th birthday; Ryanair celebra...
Business World (Digest)
July 7, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 225 words
Highlight: Ryanair aretoday markingthe 30th anniversary of their first flight by releasing 1 million seats across 
theirentire European network priced at E19.85 for travel between September and the end of January. The deal is 
available from 00.01hrs on Wednesday, 8th
Body
Ryanair aretoday markingthe 30th anniversary of their first flight by releasing 1 million seats across theirentire 
European network priced at E19.85 for travel between September and the end of January. The deal is available 
from 00.01hrs on Wednesday, 8th July, until 24.00hrs on Sunday, 12th July.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Wednesday, 8th July marks the 30th anniversary of 
Ryanair's first flight from Waterford to Gatwick and to celebrate and thank our customers, we're going back to 1985 
- with one million seats on sale for just E19.85.
Ryanair revolutionised and democratised air travel in Europe and 30 years on, we have grown to become Europe's 
biggest airline, carrying 100m people annually, between 30 countries, and saving European customers over E11bn 
every year by choosing Ryanair over high fare competitors. In fact, this E19.85 sale will save customers a further 
E125m.
The one thing that hasn't changed is our fares, as we continue to offer Europe's lowest airfares, with the biggest 
route network and best service. These E19.85 fares go on sale on the Ryanair.com website from Wednesday, with 
a million seats available across our entire network for travel between September and the end of January, which 
must be booked on the Ryanair.com website by midnight Sunday (12th July)." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 10, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to begin offering low-cost flights to Israel
Ryanair to begin offering low-cost flights to Israel
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 7, 2015 Tuesday 12:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 118 words
Dateline: JERUSALEM 
Body
JERUSALEM (AP) - Europe's low-cost airline Ryanair says it will start its first cheap flights in and out of Israel in 
November.
The Irish budget airline said Tuesday it will offer twice-weekly flights between Israel's Ovda airport near Eilat and 
Budapest, Kaunas, and Krakow. The company plans to serve 40,000 customers each year.
Ryanair says its first Israeli flights will go on sale Thursday. The November and December flights will be available 
for two days at a special price starting at $32, or 29.99 euros.
Israel will be the 31st country Ryanair serves. The company, which is trying to expand to other Middle East 
destinations, said it is continuing to negotiate with Israeli authorities to add more routes.
Load-Date: July 8, 2015
End of Document
BUSINESS WATCH: RYANAIR HOLDINGS
BUSINESS WATCH: RYANAIR HOLDINGS
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
July 6, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 4
Length: 27 words
Byline: CHRISTINA ZANDER, ROBERT WALL
Body
ABSTRACT
Battle with Danish labor unions escalates as Ryanair Holdings says it could withdraw all its planes based in 
Denmark amid sustained strike threats; photo (S)
Graphic
 
Photograph
Load-Date: July 7, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
July 5, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 683 words
Body
**Bulmers' owner reports mixed start to year**
Drinks giant C&C, the owner of the Bulmers cider brand, indicated in a trading statement last week that trading 
conditions in the first quarter of 2015 were    mixed  .
C&C said that its core markets of Ireland and Scotland were hit by unseasonably cold and wet weather, particularly 
in May. The drinks group also said the recent tightening of drink-driving regulations in Scotland had added to the 
challenges already faced there.
However, the company said it expects a gradual improvement in core market performance as the year progresses, 
with the 2016 financial year one of    stabilisation and investment for the group  .
.....................
**Tullow raises full-year guidance**
Oil and gas exploration company Tullow Oil has raised it full-year guidance for its West African operations after its 
flagship Jubilee field off Ghana produced more oil than expected.
Tullow said it is expecting to produce 66,000-70,000 barrels of oil per day from its West African fields, up from a 
previous estimate of 63,000-68,000 barrels per day.
Tullow also said last week that it had made a EUR 40 million write-off on its exploration assets in the first half of 
2015 after unsuccessful searches.
The company's chief executive Aidan Heavey said that a number of important steps had been taken    to ensure 
that Tullow remains on a firm financial footing  .
Boardroom Briefing
According to a note from Davy, the    solid update and good execution should help rebuild conviction in the Tullow 
story  .
.....................
**One51 buys Canadian company**
Environmental services firm One51 has announced a deal to buy Canadian plastics company IPL.
The deal will give One51 a controlling stake in IPL, which makes injection-molded plastics products and employs 
more than 800 people across four plants in Canada and the US. The deal is expected to boost One51's revenue 
from EUR 276 million to EUR 450 million as it increases the company's international reach. Alan Walsh, One51's 
group chief executive said it was a    transformational   deal which was not just about scale, but also    strategic fit  .
.....................
**Ryanair and Hertz end agreement**
Ryanair said last week that Hertz had terminated its exclusive car hire supply agreement with the airline.
All existing bookings will be honoured and customers can still modify their bookings, but Ryanair will not be able to 
offer any new car hire services through its website for around three months while it seeks a suitable replacement 
supplier.
In a statement, Ryanair said it believed the termination is in breach of its long-term contract with Hertz, adding that 
it will pursue Hertz for breach of contract and damages.
In its own statement on the matter, Hertz said that    despite lengthy discussions regarding a contractual dispute, it 
regrets that it had to end its car hire agreement with Ryanair  . However, the car hire company reassured customers 
on existing bookings.
.....................
**Banks move on rates**
A number of lenders announced new mortgage pricing last week. However, banks have been slow to act on 
variable rates.
Ulster Bank announced cuts to its fixed rates for both new and existing customers last week, with its fixed rates set 
to fall by up to 0.35 per cent from July 17.
Permanent TSB's latest move will see it offer existing customers the chance to move to so-called 'managed variable 
rates'. According to a statement from the bank, the new rates will vary depending on the amount owed by 
customers and the current value of their home.
Last week also saw KBC announce changes to its mortgage offering, with new fixed-rate options for existing 
customers. The bank also announced lower rates for new customers.
.....................
**The week ahead**
Associated British Foods (ABF), the British sugar and ingredient company that also owns retailer Primark, will 
publish a trading update on Thursday. An update on the Primark brand's move into the US market is likely.
Builders merchanting and DIY group Grafton Group, which owns the Woodie's chain of DIY stores, will also release 
a trading statement on Thursday.
Boardroom Briefing
Load-Date: July 7, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair threatens to leave Denmark if unions take action
Ryanair threatens to leave Denmark if unions take action
Financial Times (London, England)
July 4, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 17
Length: 274 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic Correspondent
Body
Ryanair is threatening to pull out of Denmark if unions in the country blockade the low-cost airline's flights.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, said yesterday the Irish carrier would move its sole Copenhagen-based 
aircraft to Kaunas in Lithuania from July 14.
This follows a Danish labour court ruling this week that allowed unions to strike and blockade Ryanair aircraft if the 
airline refuses to sign a collective agreement with workers.
Yesterday, Mr O'Leary called the ruling "bizarre" and said the company would appeal to the European Commission 
and courts in Brussels.
He threatened to close Ryanair's base in Billund, home to Legoland and headquarters of the Danish toy company, 
where two of its aircraft are based, if unions went ahead with the blockade.
"Then we would have to close Billund, even if we don't want to. Copenhagen is more important to us than Billund, 
even if we love Billund dearly. I've been to Legoland myself," Mr O'Leary said.
The court ruling against Ryanair represents one of the biggest threats to the business model of Europe's biggest 
low-cost airline. It opens the door to similar actions in other countries, following complaints in France and Belgium.
Ryanair threatens to leave Denmark if unions take action
Ryanair has argued that its staff based in Copenhagen staff should be subject to Irish law. Danish unions claim this 
allows Ryanair to pay its cabin crew half the salary of staff in Cimber, a local low-cost rival. Unions said they would 
look to strike from the middle of this month.
Ryanair is not giving up on customers in Denmark , however, as it announced it would open three new routes into 
Copenhagen to be operated by aircraft based outside Denmark.
Load-Date: July 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair claims they will take legal action after Hertz ends partnership Ryanair claims ...
Ryanair claims they will take legal action after Hertz ends partnership; 
Ryanair claims ...
Business World (Digest)
July 3, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 276 words
Highlight: Ryanair is to launch legal proceedings against U.S. car rental firm Hertz, which ended a long-running 
partnership following a dispute over Ryanair's indirect ticket sales, Europe's largest low-cost airline said on 
Thursday.
Body
Ryanair is to launch legal proceedings against U.S. car rental firm Hertz, which ended a long-running partnership 
following a dispute over Ryanair's indirect ticket sales, Europe's largest low-cost airline said on Thursday.
Hertz, which lists Ryanair among its 20 key partnerships alongside Lufthansa, Etihad Airways and others, said in a 
statement that it was confident in its legal position which it will pursue vigorously through the courts.
Ryanair said it received notice on Thursday that Hertz was ending its exclusive car hire supply agreement with 
Ryanair and had instructed its lawyers to pursue Hertz for breach of contract and damages.
The Irish airline said Hertz considered Ryanair's recent agreement with global distribution system (GDS) companies 
as a breach of their contract, which was not due to expire until 2020. GDS systems allow some customers to buy 
Ryanair flights through third parties, bypassing Ryanair's website where Hertz's car hire services were promoted. 
Ryanair in the past has exclusively sold tickets through its website. Ryanair said it had been distributing through 
GDSs since April 2014 "with Hertz's knowledge and support." Hertz said it had been through lengthy discussions 
regarding the contractual dispute and that it regretted having to end the agreement. Ryanair and Hertz said all 
existing bookings would be honoured. The budget airline said it was looking for a replacement supplier. "We have 
had a long and successful partnership with Hertz, and it's a pity that this has ended in such an unfortunate and 
untimely manner," Ryanair Chief Executive O'Leary said in the statement. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 8, 2015
Ryanair claims they will take legal action after Hertz ends partnership Ryanair claims ...
End of Document
Ryanair - Hertz car hire deal breaks down Travel & leisure
Ryanair-Hertz car hire deal breaks down; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
July 3, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 22
Length: 424 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Highlight: Airline seeks new partner as contractual dispute heads for courts
Body
Ryanair and Hertz have become embroiled in a legal spat after the breakdown of an agreement between the travel 
heavyweights at the start of the summer holiday season.
The low-cost Irish airline is taking legal action against the car hire group after Hertz terminated an exclusive 
arrangement to provide car hire services to Ryanair passengers. The decision, announced by Ryanair yesterday 
and later confirmed by Hertz, leaves the airline without car hire facilities to offer passengers booking flights on its 
website. Both parties said existing contracts would be honoured.
Hertz's move drew a sharp response from Michael O'Leary , Ryanair's chief executive. He said the termination of 
the deal "will cause maximum inconvenience to our customers during the peak travel period.
"We have had a long and successful partnership with Hertz, and it's a pity that this has ended in such an 
unfortunate and untimely manner. We have instructed our lawyers to issue proceedings for breach of contract."
Michel Taride , group president of Hertz International, said : "We have enjoyed many years of a successful 
partnership with Ryanair, but unfortunately we were not able to reach agreement with the airline over a significant 
contractual dispute, in spite of considerable effort."
He added: "We are confident in our legal position and intend to pursue this matter vigorously through the courts."
Ryanair - Hertz car hire deal breaks down Travel & leisure
Ryanair's announcement came a few hours after it said passenger numbers had risen to 9.5m in June, a 14 per 
cent increase over the same month last year.
Ryanair said it had "received a notice from Hertz purporting to terminate Hertz's exclusive car hire agreement with 
Ryanair" effective from noon yesterday.
Hertz's decision appears to have been triggered by a series of agreements Ryanair has struck with global 
distribution services (GDS) companies that make its seats available on other platforms as it looks to attract more 
business customers. The airline has signed deals in the past 15 months with Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre which 
enable travel agents to offer car hire other than Hertz to potential Ryanair passengers.
Ryanair said it had been asserted that its agreements with GDS companies represented a breach of its contract 
with Hertz. It disputed this claim "given that Ryanair has been distributing through GDSs since April 2014 . . . with 
Hertz's knowledge and support".
The agreement with Hertz applied to passengers booking flights through Ryanair's website. The airline said it would 
approach other car hire groups to select a replacement service.
Load-Date: July 2, 2015
End of Document
Capital controls squeeze a suffocating economy GREECE TURMOIL Banking restrictions: Counting the cost
Capital controls squeeze a suffocating economy; GREECE TURMOIL; 
Banking restrictions: Counting the cost
Financial Times (London, England)
July 3, 2015 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 699 words
Byline: Ferdinando Giugliano, Economics Correspondent
Highlight: High price exacted by the extraordinary measures is becoming more apparent
Body
Greek authorities have imposed sweeping capital controls to prevent a collapse of the banking system that 
threatens to push Athens out of the eurozone. But with economic activity grinding to a near halt and the country's 
banks still bleeding deposits, the price of these extraordinary measures is becoming apparent.
In the absence of a long-term agreement with international creditors, economists warn that capital controls are not a 
long-term remedy for Greece . Without fresh support, the government or the banks will inevitably run out of money, 
they say, and then be forced to resort to an alternative currency to meet their obligations, leading to a Greek exit.
"This week is some kind of very long Christmas holiday, when most economic activity comes to a halt," said 
Guntram Wolff, director of European think-tank Bruegel. "The longer capital controls last for, the bigger the 
damage."
The controls, including a EUR60 daily limit on cash machine withdrawals and restrictions on payments abroad, are 
affecting domestic transactions and dealings with foreign suppliers.
Although credit card payments and electronic transfers in Greece are not affected, analysts say large segments of 
the population have had to cut back consumption as they rely on cash for their daily shopping.
Capital controls squeeze a suffocating economy GREECE TURMOIL Banking restrictions: Counting the cost
"We expect consumption to fall, as well as investments and exports," said Manos Giakoumis, head analyst at 
MacroPolis, a consultancy. "For many economic activities, volumes and turn-overs will be subdued."
In the short run, said Mr Giakoumis, uncertainty may be a boon for supermarkets and petrol stations as people fill 
their cupboards and drivers their tanks, fearing worse shortages.
In a central Athens supermarket, Mariana, a supervisor, was checking orders yesterday for supplies of pasta, rice 
and pulses - staples that Greeks have been buying in larger quantities than usual since the announcement of a 
national referendum to be held on Sunday that some fear could push the country closer to a eurozone exit.
"We haven't seen anything you could call panic buying but our older customers are definitely stocking up on dry 
foods and tinned goods," she said.
Greeks in their 60s and 70s who lived through political and social turmoil when food was short still tend to stockpile 
basic foodstuffs ahead of an election of any kind. Andreas, a buyer for the supermarket chain, said the company 
placed "much bigger orders than usual" last month. "We were already worried that capital controls would happen, 
so we pulled cash out of the bank and bought imported goods that might be hard to get later," he explained.
But that flurry of activity will, by its nature, be shortlived, say analysts.
Foreign companies are also having to adapt. On Wednesday, Ryanair, the budget airline, announced it would allow 
Greek customers to pay in cash after the capital controls caused problems with credit card transactions.
A pressing question is whether foreign suppliers will continue to sell to Greek businesses, as transactions abroad 
require approval from the Greek authorities.
"Greek companies without a foreign subsidiary are finding it difficult to make payments abroad," said Dimitris 
Paraskevas, managing partner at Elias Paraskevas Attorneys, a law firm.
Such uncertainty will inevitably deepen an economic slowdown that worsened in June. The purchasing managers' 
index for manufacturers fell to 46.9 from 48 in May - the lowest reading in two years and well below the 50 mark 
that separates contraction from expansion.
The downturn is bound to curtail tax revenues, worsening the Greek government's dire finances.
"Historically, a large portion of taxes is paid at the end of the month and the bank holiday coincides with this period," 
said Mr Giakoumis.
The other source of vulnerability is the banking sector. The European Central Bank froze the limit of the emergency 
loans it provided to Greek lenders on Sunday, meaning that banks have no sustainable source of liquidity.
Capital controls can reduce their deposit outflows but not stop them. As cash is drained from the ATMs, the 
authorities will be obliged to lower the maximum savers can collect. Even this is only a temporary fix.
Additional reporting by Kerin Hope in Athens
Load-Date: July 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to move Copenhagen-based aircraft after court ruling Ryanair to move...
Ryanair to move Copenhagen-based aircraft after court ruling; Ryanair to 
move...
Business World (Digest)
July 3, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 152 words
Highlight: Ryanair will move its one Copenhagen-based aircraft out of the country following a court ruling that 
airport staff in the Danish capital had the right to refuse to service its flights, the Irish airline said on Friday.
Body
Ryanair will move its one Copenhagen-based aircraft out of the country following a court ruling that airport staff in 
the Danish capital had the right to refuse to service its flights, the Irish airline said on Friday.
Europe's largest low-cost airline's policy of employing people in countries such as Denmark under the less 
generous terms of Ireland, rather than local rules, has incurred the anger of Danish labour unions.
The unions demanded that Ryanair sign a Danish collective agreement with its locally-based pilots and cabin crew. 
A Danish court ruled on Wednesday that the unions had the right to demand a collective agreement for Ryanair 
staff and also to stage a strike against the airline.
Ryanair are continuing to operate routes to and from Copenhagen on aircraft based outside of Denmark and said 
on Friday that it would increase its number of routes to 14 from 12. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair june traffic soars IN BRIEF
Ryanair june traffic soars; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
July 3, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 82 words
Body
Traffic took off at budget airline Ryanair last month. Figures published yesterday showed passenger numbers grew 
to 9.5m passengers in June, up 14 per cent from the year before. The airline's load factor, how many seats are 
actually used, - critical for low cost airlines - was 93 per cent for the month, up five per cent. The firm is aiming to 
reach an average load factor of 90 per cent. However, Ryanair also announced yesterday that Hertz had ended its 
exclusive car hire supply deal with it.
Load-Date: July 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair could face Danish strike action Ryanair could f...
Ryanair could face Danish strike action; Ryanair could f...
Business World (Digest)
July 2, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 267 words
Highlight: Ryanair could face strike action in Denmark after a court ruled that Copenhagen airport staff had the 
right to refuse to service its flights in a dispute over workers' rights.
Body
Ryanair could face strike action in Denmark after a court ruled that Copenhagen airport staff had the right to refuse 
to service its flights in a dispute over workers' rights.
The Irish budget airline's policy of employing people in countries such as Denmark under the less generous terms 
of Ireland, rather than local rules, has incurred the anger of Danish labour unions.
The unions have demanded that the carrier sign a Danish collective agreement with its locally-based pilots and 
cabin crew. They went to court to find out if workers at Copenhagen airport - such as baggage handlers and fuel 
suppliers - could legally refuse to service Ryanair flights if the carrier did not meet that demand.
The court ruled on Wednesday that the unions had the right to demand a collective agreement for Ryanair staff and 
also to stage a strike against the airline. The unions have now given Ryanair two to three weeks to agree to the 
collective contracts. Otherwise, workers at the airport could refuse to supply its flights with vital services during the 
summer holiday season. "We have instructed our lawyers to immediately appeal this ruling, which appears to allow 
competitor airline unions to blockade Ryanair's one based aircraft at Copenhagen," Ryanair head of 
communications Robin Kiely said in a statement. "We will continue to operate 12 routes to/from Copenhagen but on 
aircraft based outside of Denmark," Kiely added. Such a move could head off any strike action as Copenhagen 
airport workers may not refuse to service flights whose staff are not based in Denmark. (Reuters) Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 7, 2015
Ryanair could face Danish strike action Ryanair could f...
End of Document
THE AVIATION INDUSTRY REACTS
THE AVIATION INDUSTRY REACTS
City A.M.
July 2, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 336 words
Body
WILLIE WALSH: IAG ? The real test is whether any political will exists to turn Davies' recommendation into reality. 
He believes naively that the costs associated with the scheme would be borne by airlines. While we believe It would 
be outrageous to burden passengers with the cost of such expensive infrastructure, we will not pay for it.
CAROLYN MCCALL: EASYJET ? EasyJet supports the Airports Commission's clear and unanimous 
recommendation and agrees that expansion at Heathrow will provide the greatest passenger and economic 
benefits, including lower fares by opening up the airport to increased competition. We now urge the Government to 
quickly proceed and start the work.
KENNY JACOBS: RYANAIR ? Ryanair believes that the proposed Heathrow runway - which won't be delivered for 
10 or 15 years - won't solve the runway capacity crisis in the South East. Ryanair strongly advocates taking 
politicians out of runway decision making and allowing each of the three London airports, to build 3 competing 
runways.
NICK BARTON: LUTON ? We welcome its publication; now the politicians must deliver. The report makes clear that 
a new runway may not be available for several years, yet London's airport system needs to grow and thrive in the 
meantime. We're currently investing £100m to meet the growing demand for air travel in the short-medium term.
ANDREW HARRISON: STANSTED ? The Commission has recognised the strategic importance of Stansted and 
the contribution the airport will make meeting demand in the UK over the short to medium term. The Government 
must now act to support the relaxation of planning caps at the appropriate time and improve rail connections to 
Stansted.
DECLAN COLLIER: CITY ? We already have permission to increase flight movements - we simply require a 
permission to expand the airport's existing infrastructure in order to inject muchneeded capacity into the London 
THE AVIATION INDUSTRY REACTS
system pending the delivery of any new runway favoured by the Government.Extra capacity could be in operation at 
City in 18 months.
Load-Date: July 2, 2015
End of Document
Opponents gear up for battle to stop third runway
Opponents gear up for battle to stop third runway
City A.M.
July 2, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16,17
Length: 637 words
Byline: CHARLOTTE HENRY
Body
HEATHROW still faces a fight for its third runway to be finalised, despite being recommended by Sir Howard 
Davies' independent airports commision yesterday.
Speaking in the House of Commons today, transport secretary Patrick McLoughlin accepted that the issues are "not 
easy to resolve", and local residents showed no sign of dropping their fight after Davies made his announcement.
An activist group called the Teddington Action Group has already begun the process that could lead to a judicial 
review of what it considers to be a flawed consultation process. The group has accused Davies of having a 
preconceived bias towards Heathrow.
The group's Paul McGuinness told City A.M. that Davies' appointment as chairman of RBS clouded his judgement 
on airports: "Two of RBS' most important clients are Heathrow and Gatwick. Throughout the most sensitive period 
of the commission's work, he has been lined up to take the top job at the bank which has a direct financial interest 
in the recommendation."
The commission must answer the group's initial pre-action protocol letter by today.
The Campaign for the Protection of Rural England also blasted the commission, with transport campaign manager 
Ralph Smyth saying that "it was clear that its terms of reference were rigged from the start."
Some City analysts, however, see the business case for Heathrow expansion. Liberum's Gerald Khoo told City 
A.M.: "Heathrow always seemed to have the stronger case."
Opponents gear up for battle to stop third runway
"It's where the airlines, especially the long haul carriers, have gravitated," he added, explaining that "Heathrow 
delivers higher yields, better revenues, for the airlines." Khoo said that if the recommendation for a third runway at 
Heathrow was to be followed by the government, it would be "helpful for EasyJet".
"It does very well at Gatwick," he explained.
"It is hard for other airlines to get a slot, which means it is hard for airlines like Ryanair to have a run at EasyJet."
The government is in no huge rush to make its final decision, which will be hugely controversial despite calls from 
various business groups.
McLoughlin said that the government "will come back to parliament in the autumn to provide a clear direction on the 
government's plans". The secretary of state also vowed that there was "a guarantee that there will be no fourth 
runway", but this is unlikely to placate worried and angry residents in south west London.
Gatwick finance boss Nick Dunn continued to insist yesterday that his airport remains "still very much in the race". 
Gatwick chief executive Stewart Wingate said it is "the only deliverable option." Despite decades of delay, and now 
a commission lasting three years and costing £20m, airport expansion still faces a long haul until it is finally 
completed.
GAMBLERS DON'T EXPECT A CLEAR TAKE-OFF... EVEN BY 2025 EDITED BY EDITH HANCOCK BRITAIN'S 
bookies feel that Heathrow faces a rocky ride in its bid for a third runway.
Odds-makers at Ladbrokes reckon it's touch and go whether Heathrow will be successfully expanded before 2025, 
offering even odds on the first flight taking off before then, and 8/11 on it leaving after then. PaddyPower is also 
anticipating opposition to the move, offering 7/4 that the Heathrow proposal will be rejected by the Tories.
Betfred thinks the Heathrow deal is still not set for a quick take-off, even after all this time. Odds of a third runway 
being granted this year have stuck at 11/10, while you can only get 8/11 on the decision being delayed into next 
year.
Boris Johnson has previously said he would lie down "in front of the bulldozers" if plans at Heathrow go ahead. 
Paddy Power is offering 100/1 that he does. He now says such a move is unnecessary, insisting the Tory 
government will not give Heathrow the green light.
Heathrow is where the airlines, especially long haul carriers, have gravitated '
Graphic
 
McLoughlin said plans will come out in autumnAs well as Crossrail, which opens in 2018, and HS@, still under 
review, the report also proposes a southern rail access link, connecting the airport to Waterloo and districts such as 
Richmond, and a western rail link to Reading.To make way for the runway, the M25 will need to be "reconfigured" - 
a project which will cost 17bn.Almost 1,000 homes in the villages of Hammonsworth and Longford will be 
demolished to make way for the new runway - as well as a church and a 14th century barn.
Load-Date: July 2, 2015
End of Document
Danish court threatens Ryanair model with local staff ruling Airlines
Danish court threatens Ryanair model with local staff ruling; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 2, 2015 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 333 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic Correspondent
Highlight: Carrier's attempt to use more central airports hit by labour relations order
Body
Ryanair is facing one of the biggest challenges to its low-cost model after losing a court case that could make it 
impossible for the Irish airline to fly from Denmark.
A Danish court ruled that the company, which has been trying to polish its image , needs to sign a collective 
agreement with local staff or face a blockade from trade unionists.
The ruling means that Ryanair, led by Michael O'Leary , its outspoken chief executive, would be unlikely to find 
workers to refuel and clean its aircraft or handle baggage, while passengers could be blockaded by striking 
workers. The company called the ruling "bizarre" and said it would appeal.
A storm has been brewing since Ryan-air locked horns with Denmark, which has among the strongest protections 
for workers in Europe.
After Frank Jensen , Copenhagen's Social Democrat mayor, banned municipal workers from using Ryanair for 
official trips, the airline launched an advertising campaign depicting him as Marie Antoinette, with the slogan "Let 
them pay high fares".
Ryanair said the publicity had led to a surge in bookings. The conflict even became an issue in Denmark's recent 
election campaign.
Danish court threatens Ryanair model with local staff ruling Airlines
After the latest ruling, Mr Jensen tweeted: "A victory for the Danish model. Great, with a clear ruling from the labour 
court."
The ruling is a blow for Ryanair's image and its attempt to use more central airports, such as Copenhagen's 
Kastrup, rather than out-of-town facilities.
"It is absurd for Danish trade unions to attempt to impose collective agreements on Irish air crew who spend less 
than 2 per cent of their working time in Denmark, and who already have [a] collective agreement in place with Ryan-
air," the airline said.
Danish unions have said a Ryanair cabin crew member earns less than half the amount paid by Cimber, a local 
low-cost rival.
Ryanair has faced previous difficulties over staff hired in other countries. It was fined in France last year for not 
paying social security. But the Danish ruling seems the most serious threat so far.
Load-Date: July 1, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair June Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
Ryanair June Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
July 2, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 158 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced that traffic for the month of 
June 2015 increased 14 percent to 9.5 million customers from 8.3 million customers in the same month of prior 
year.
Load factor for the monthly also improved 5 percentage points to 93 percent from last year's 88 percent.
The airline noted that the rolling annual traffic to June grew 14 percent to 94.3 million customers.
"Ryanair's June traffic grew by 14% to 9.5m customers, while our load factor jumped by 5% points to 93%, thanks 
to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" 
customer experience improvement programme, which continues to deliver better than expected load factors on our 
significantly expanded summer schedule," Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs said.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair In Ugly Feud With Hertz
Ryanair In Ugly Feud With Hertz
RTT News (United States)
July 2, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 335 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) and Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) have 
ended their exclusive car hire supply agreement with immediate effect.
The budget airline said it would pursue Hertz for breach of contract.
Ryanair expects that any loss arising from this interruption to car hire services will be recovered from the legal 
proceedings against Hertz, and does not expect this interruption to have a material impact on current earnings.
The airline said it received a notice from Hertz this morning, purporting to terminate Hertz's exclusive car hire 
supply agreement with Ryanair with effect.
Hertz alleged that Ryanair's agreement with GDS distribution companies represents a breach of contract. Ryanair 
has disputed this claim stating it has been distributing through GDSs since April 2014 with Hertz's knowledge and 
support.
Hertz confirmed in the notice that all existing bookings would be honored and customers would still be able to 
modify their bookings on the microsite following its decommissioning at 12:00 hrs today.
Ryanair believes this termination is in breach of its long term exclusive contract with Hertz, which was recently 
extended for a 5 year period to 2020.
The airline will pursue Hertz for breach of contract and damages. In the interim, the company will be unable to offer 
its customers car hire services through the Ryanair.com website for about three months while it seeks a suitable 
replacement supplier.
Ryanair said it would, by close of play today, issue a request for proposals for the provision of car hire services to 
its 100 million annual customer base.
The company expects to have a replacement supplier linked to the Ryanair.com website by October which will 
coincide with the launch of Ryanair's new and improved personalized website and mobile app.
RYA.L was unchanged at 12.30 pence. HTZ slid marginally on Wednesday to $17.57.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Ryanair In Ugly Feud With Hertz
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: July 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair may face Danish strike; IN BRIEF
Ryanair may face Danish strike; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
July 2, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 72 words
Body
Ryanair could face strike action in Denmark after a court ruled that Copenhagen airport staff had the right to refuse 
to service its flights. The Irish budget airline's policy of employing people in countries such as Denmark under the 
less generous terms of Ireland, rather than local rules, has incurred the anger of Danish labour unions. They 
demanded the carrier sign a Danish collective agreement with local pilots and cabin crew.
Load-Date: July 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches petition to keep 'Europe's skies open' Ryanair launche...
Ryanair launches petition to keep 'Europe's skies open'; Ryanair launche...
Business World (Digest)
July 1, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 241 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today launched an EU wide online petition to prevent Europe's consumers having their 
travel plans disrupted or holidays cancelled by Air Traffic Control (ATC) unions going on strike and "closing skies 
over Europe."
Body
Ryanair have today launched an EU wide online petition to prevent Europe's consumers having their travel plans 
disrupted or holidays cancelled by Air Traffic Control (ATC) unions going on strike and "closing skies over Europe."
This comes after French ATC unions have called another closure (from Thursday 2nd to Saturday 4th July) which 
Ryanair claim will result in thousands of flights being cancelled and hundreds of thousands of consumers having 
their flights cancelled and/or delayed.
They claim that since 2009, French ATC unions have staged 39 days of strike action, causing cancellations for 
millions of people across Europe.
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said, "It's unacceptable that Europe's consumers repeatedly have their holiday and travel 
plans disrupted or cancelled by the selfish actions of ATC unions every summer, who use strikes as a first weapon 
rather than a last resort. French ATC unions will again stage three further days of strikes this week, which will 
impact hundreds of thousands of European consumers. It is particularly reprehensible that these strikes are taking 
place at the height of the peak summer season, deliberately targeting holiday makers and families." Ryanair has 
today launched 'Keep Europe's Skies Open', an online petition offering European consumers the opportunity to join 
its call to protect Europe from what Ryanair claim is repeated "blackmail and disruption" by ATC unions. Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 6, 2015
Ryanair launches petition to keep 'Europe's skies open' Ryanair launche...
End of Document
Flybe splits exec role after MAS poaches CCO
Flybe splits exec role after MAS poaches CCO
AirFinance Journal
July 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,ASIA PACIFIC & AUSTRALASIA,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS,ASIA
Length: 217 words
Byline: Michael Allen
Highlight: Paul Simmons will leave Flybe in January 2016 to join Malaysia Airlines.
Body
British regional airline Flybe has decided to split its chief commercial officer (CCO) position into two jobs following 
Malaysia Airlines' (MAS) poaching its CCO.
Multiple media outlets have been reporting that Paul Simmons, Flybe's CCO, will leave the company in mid-January 
2016 to take up a role with Malaysia Airlines. Flybe confirmed this in a statement sent to Airfinance Journal today.
The first new role Flybe is creating is to head network planning and development, establishing this as a separate 
function.
In a statement, Flybe said that this is "to ensure that as Flybe drives network expansion, new route investment 
decisions and route performance management are given the highest level of focus and visibility".
The second role is to lead the remaining commercial teams, which include sales and marketing and customer care.
Flybe is actively hiring for both positions.
MAS' new CEO Christoph Mueller, who used to head up Aer Lingus, appears to be keen to hire European talent for 
his airline, which is undergoing a major restructuring following two fatal accidents last year. In June, he hired 
Ryanair's Peter Bellow as the carrier's new chief operations officer (COO).
To see all ofFlybe and MAS' recent and historic deals visit Airfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Michael.Allen@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: August 10, 2015
End of Document
European Commission clears sale of Aer Lingus to IAG
European Commission clears sale of Aer Lingus to IAG
AirFinance Journal
July 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,AIRPORTS,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND,SPAIN,UK
Length: 297 words
Highlight: IAG will have to give up five Gatwick slots to increase competition.
Body
The European Commission (EC) has cleared the â,¬1.36 billion ($1.55 billion) sale of Aer Lingus to airline 
conglomerate International Airlines Group (IAG), owner of British Airways, Iberia and Vueling.
According to a statement from IAG, as part of the agreement, the airline company will give up five daily slot pairs at 
London Gatwick Airport for other airlines for flights to Dublin or Belfast.
The move is to ensure there is still adequate competition at the airport. The EC had previously voiced its concerns 
over how the potential IAG takeover will impact competition with other airlines.
Last week, Irish operator Ryanair agreed to sell its 29.8% stake in Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus to IAG.
Ryanair's agreement to sell its stake in Aer Lingus means that IAG's â,¬1.36 billion ($1.55 billion) bid for Aer Lingus 
can go ahead. The bid was originally made on January 27 2015, and valued each Aer Lingus share at â,¬2.55 
($2.90), comprising of a cash offer of â,¬2.50 and a dividend of â,¬0.05 per share.
Aer Lingus' board recommended IAG's offer to the Irish government, which owned a 25.11% in the airline, in 
January 2015. The government sought some guarantees from the British-Spanish airline conglomerate, including 
that Aer Lingus keeps its existing slots at Heathrow and its headquarters in Ireland.
IAG made slot guarantees to the Irish governmenton February 3 2015. In late May,the Irish government agreed to 
sell its shares in Aer Lingus to IAG.
Over the last nine years, Ryanair has made several bids to try and takeover Aer Lingus,but had its 
offersrejected.The agreement to sell its near 30% stake marks the end of these attempts.
To see all of Ryanair's, IAG's and Aer Lingus' recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database. 
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: August 3, 2015
European Commission clears sale of Aer Lingus to IAG
End of Document
Ryanair to sell its stake in Aer Lingus to IAG
Ryanair to sell its stake in Aer Lingus to IAG
AirFinance Journal
July 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: EUROPE,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,IRELAND,SPAIN,UK
Length: 288 words
Highlight: Irish LCC's board reaches a unanimous decision in favour of the IAG acquisition.
Body
Irish carrier Ryanair has agreed to sell its 29.8% stake in Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus to airline conglomerate 
International Airlines Group (IAG).
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's CEO, said in a statement today that the Ryanair board had reached a unanimous 
decision to sell the airline's shares in Aer Lingus to IAG.
IAG owns British Airways, Vueling and Iberia.
Ryanair's agreement to sell its stake in Aer Lingus means that IAG's â,¬1.36 billion ($1.55 billion) bid for Aer Lingus 
can go ahead. The bid was originally made on January 27 2015, and valued each Aer Lingus share at â,¬2.55 
($2.90), comprising of a cash offer of â,¬2.50 and a dividend of â,¬0.05 per share.
"We believe the IAG offer for Aer Lingus is a reasonable one in the current market and we plan to accept it, in the 
best interests of Ryanair shareholders. The price means that Ryanair will make a small profit on its investment in 
Aer Lingus over the past nine years," O'Leary said.
Aer Lingus' board recommended IAG's offer to the Irish government, which owned a 25.11% in the airline, in 
January 2015. The government sought some guarantees from the British-Spanish airline conglomerate, including 
that Aer Lingus keeps its existing slots at Heathrow and its headquarters in Ireland.
IAG made slot guarantees to the Irish government on February 3 2015. In late May, the Irish government agreed to 
sell its shares in Aer Lingus to IAG.
Over the last nine years, Ryanair has made several bids to try and takeover Aer Lingus, but had its offersrejected. 
The agreement to sell its near 30% stake marks the end of these attempts.
To see all of Ryanair's, IAG's and Aer Lingus' recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: July 27, 2015
Ryanair to sell its stake in Aer Lingus to IAG
End of Document
Update: Ryanair 's net Q1 profit up 25%
Update: Ryanair's net Q1 profit up 25%
AirFinance Journal
July 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 182 words
Highlight: Irish carrier will take 31 737-800s from October 2015 up until the end of the year.
Body
Irish carrier Ryanair's Q1 profit for 2015 rose 25% from Q1 2014, increasing from â,¬197 million ($217 million) to 
â,¬245 million ($271 million). The airline attributed the rise in profits to its traffic growing from 24.4 million in Q1 
2014 to 28 million in Q1 2015, a 16% rise.
A statement from Ryanair added that the Irish carrier will be taking delivery of 31 737-800s from October 2015 up 
until the end of 2015, taking its fleet up to 340 737-800s by the end of the year.
A spokesperson for the airline told Airfinance Journal that the carrier looks to fund the upcoming 31 737-800 
deliveries with capital raised from its â,¬850 million unsecured Eurobond it issued in March 2015. The 
spokesperson added that the carrier is not planning to lease any of the aircraft.
Earlier this month,Ryanair sold its 29.8% stake in Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus to airline conglomerate International 
Airlines Group (IAG), the owner of British Airways, Iberia and Vueling.
Source: Ryanair
To see all of Ryanair's recent and historic deals visit
Airfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: August 17, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair 's net Q1 profit up 25%
Ryanair's net Q1 profit up 25%
AirFinance Journal
July 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 131 words
Highlight: Irish carrier will take 31 737-800s from October 2015 up until the end of the year.
Body
Irish carrier Ryanair's Q1 profit for 2015 rose 25% from Q1 2014, increasing from â,¬197 million ($217m) to â,¬245 
million ($271m). 
The airline attributed the rise in profits to its traffic growing from 24.4 million in Q1 2014 to 28 million in Q1 2015, a 
16% rise.A statement from Ryanair added that the Irish carrier will be taking delivery of 31 737-800s from October 
2015 up until the end of 2015, taking its fleet up to 340 737-800s by the end of the year.
Earlier this month, Ryanair sold its 29.8% stake in Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus to airline conglomerate International 
Airlines Group (IAG), the owner of British Airways, Iberia and Vueling.
Source: Ryanair  
To see all of Ryanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: August 17, 2015
End of Document
Capital Control Means Greeks Can Click, Not Buy
Capital Control Means Greeks Can Click, Not Buy
Newstex Blogs
Voice of America
June 30, 2015 Tuesday 4:40 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 387 words
Body
Jun 30, 2015( Voice of America: http://www.voanews.com Delivered by Newstex) ; Monday was the day the music 
died for thousands of song downloaders and music streamers in Greece.
 The imposition of capital controls on Sunday evening means Greeks are no longer able to purchase goods or 
services from many big international online suppliers including Google, Apple and Facebook. Transfers of funds out 
of Greece were banned to prevent a collapse of the banking system after Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras rejected the 
terms of a bailout offer from international lenders. The controls mean payments via debit or credit cards to accounts 
outside Greece are prohibited. This is a problem for the big online retailers, music download sellers and airlines, 
who sell to clients across Europe from centralized transacting subsidiaries, often in Luxembourg or Ireland, and 
often for tax reasons. Since Monday, many Greeks have found they can no longer make payments online to such 
companies. "I tried to pay Facebook three euros for a small advertisement but my card was rejected right away," 
said Greek e-commerce consultant Panayotis Gezerlis. He added that he had also failed to purchase music from 
Google and to make a payment from his bank card via eBay's payment unit, Paypal. Google told Greek clients in a 
Facebook posting that it was working to find a solution. Google's European customers contract with an Irish 
subsidiary when buying advertisements. The system allows the group to pay almost no tax on profits from these 
sales, but also means almost every sale is a cross-border transaction. A spokesman for the Irish airline Ryanair 
said it also was having trouble processing payments from Greek customers, and was working on a solution. Even 
the Taxi hailing service Taxibeat, which was founded in Greece but operates internationally, tweeted on Monday it 
was hoping to be able to offer a viable payment system soon. Gezerlis said while many of the products and 
services affected were not necessities, others, such as file storage and advertising, could cause problems for 
businesses unable to pay. "There are many businesses which rely on Google servers and on Dropbox to share 
files," he said. Many big online providers including Amazon, Google, Apple, Microsoft, Adobe and Expedia did not 
reply to requests for comment. 
Load-Date: June 30, 2015
End of Document
AirAsia chief pushes back against headwinds Interview: Tony Fernandes
AirAsia chief pushes back against headwinds; Interview: Tony Fernandes
Financial Times (London, England)
June 29, 2015 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 1139 words
Byline: Ben Bland in Hong Kong
Highlight: Entrepreneur insists he will prove critics of the budget carrier's accounting wrong
Body
A catastrophic crash at his Indonesian airline, the relegation of his English football team, an embarrassing exit from 
Formula One motor racing, and now an attack on accounting practices at AirAsia, the crown jewel of his business 
empire.
It has been a punishing year for ebullient Malaysian entrepreneur Tony Fernandes , who is battling to keep alive his 
dream to build an Asian low-cost carrier that can match the success of Southwest Airlines in the US and Ryanair in 
Europe.
Mr Fernandes has rejected a highly critical report by GMT, an independent equity research firm, that alleged that 
AirAsia is "teetering on default". The company's shares have lost nearly a quarter of their value since the GMT 
report was released on June 10, and are languishing at a five-year low.
GMT claimed in the report that Malaysia-listed AirAsia has inflated group profits by recording earnings derived from 
leasing aircraft to its troubled, minority-owned associate airlines in Indonesia and the Philippines.
At the same time, the parent group has had to extend ever more credit to these associate airlines, as their losses 
mounted owing to tough competition from dominant incumbents, GMT said.
AirAsia chief pushes back against headwinds Interview: Tony Fernandes
With the Indonesian and Philippines airlines unable to pay back the parent, receivables owed to AirAsia by its 
associates, joint ventures and related parties jumped to RM2.5bn ($665m) in 2014, from just RM1.3bn in the 
previous year, according to GMT, leaving the group with a net debt-to-equity ratio of 263 per cent, the highest 
among its regional peers.
"Don't be fooled by AirAsia's fancy marketing," wrote Gillem Tulloch, the founder of Hong Kong-based GMT, in the 
June 10 report. "Real profits have collapsed and AirAsia now needs a recapitalisation that will dilute existing 
shareholders by more than 100 per cent."
He complained about limited financial disclosures by AirAsia, Asia's largest budget airline, saying that management 
gave the impression of having "something to hide".
Mr Fernandes, a former accountant who co-founded the airline in 2001 when he and his partners bought a tiny, 
lossmaking Malaysian carrier for RM1 ($0.27), has been rattled by the attack.
But the company has dismissed GMT's allegations, insisting that it has a "good business outlook", is "rich in assets" 
and has a "strong balance sheet".
It said AirAsia plans to address concerns about its associate airlines by injecting a total of $72.9m of new share 
capital into the Indonesian and Philippines units, alongside its local partners. AirAsia also plans to raise at least 
another $100m for each associate by issuing convertible bonds to new investors.
"We're a professionally run airline," said Mr Fernandes, AirAsia group chief executive, in a Financial Times interview 
during a trip to Indonesia and the Philippines to rally staff. He insisted AirAsia is not at risk of default and has no 
need for a rights issue at group level.
"This [GMT] report is rubbish," said Mr Fernandes. "We're doing extremely well. Frankly I've been disappointed with 
the equity market. They've known us for 14 years and there's nothing in that report that hasn't been disclosed 
already."
Mr Fernandes, whose Tune Group is AirAsia's largest shareholder, added: "It's preposterous to suggest that there's 
any intention to hide. The fact that we're so transparent allowed them to write that report. We declared far more 
than we needed to."
Most analysts have rallied to the defence of AirAsia, arguing that while it is facing short-term difficulties, the group's 
structure is advantageous. Michael Beer, analyst at Citigroup, says accounting treatments at AirAsia are "among 
the best".
But Rajani Khetan, analyst at HSBC, shares some of GMT's concerns about AirAsia's large intercompany debts 
and its business model. "We not only view AirAsia's recent updates on funding plans for associates with scepticism, 
but also argue claims of improving prospects are unvalidated," she wrote in a note on June 22. She believes the 
group can reduce its losses partly by scaling back its fleet expansion plans.
Where did it go wrong for Mr Fernandes, who confidently told the FT just two years ago that to go into the airline 
business "you've got to have balls or you've got to be insanely stupid"?
His airline's motto is "Now Everyone Can Fly", and it has sought to capitalise on the ability of Southeast Asia's fast-
growing middle classto afford cheap flights. However, expanding AirAsia across the region has involved 
establishing a corporate structure that complies with local rules that prohibit foreigners from owning majority 
shareholdings in airlines.
While Mr Fernandes enjoyed success in his home market and Thailand, he has come up against resilient, well-
connected rivals in Indonesia and the Philippines.
Analysts have grown increasingly concerned about airlines expanding too fast in Asia, because it puts pressure on 
fares and therefore profits.
AirAsia chief pushes back against headwinds Interview: Tony Fernandes
The situation was compounded by a demand shock last year after three crashes involving aircraft from the region: 
Indonesia AirAsia flight QZ8501 and Malaysia Airlines' MH370 and MH17 .
Shaken, but not deterred, Mr Fernandes is trying to maintain his bullish disposition, arguing that AirAsia's prospects 
are improving because of cheaper fuel and the reorganisation of state-owned rival Malaysia Airlines, which could 
see it scrap routes.
"I love proving people wrong," he said.
Profile
Broad stable includes hotels and schools
An impulsive entrepreneur with a love for sports, Tony Fernandes has moved into a host of new businesses over 
the past few years, prompting allegations that he lost focus. In 2010, he and his Malaysian business partner, 
Kamarudin Meranun , bought a Formula One motor racing team. In 2011, they acquired Queens Park Rangers, a 
London football club then in England's Premier League.
Mr Fernandes' Tune group also runs hotel, insurance and music studio businesses. Mr Fernandes, who attended 
Epsom College, last year played an important role in the opening of a sister school in Malaysia.
Even some of Mr Fernandes' supporters said he became distracted in recent years, especially as the Caterham 
Formula One team, which he sold off last year, and QPR, both failed to perform. "He took his eye off the ball but he 
was impacted personally by the [AirAsia Indonesia] QZ8501 crash and now he's back and focusing on what is 
important," said Mohsin Aziz, analyst at Maybank.
Mr Fernandes denied that he lost focus but said he decided to reverse an earlier move to step back from the day-to-
day running of AirAsia.
"I decided about a year ago that AirAsia needed me more so I stepped back in and sold off the F1 team. After the 
crash, we decided to . . . focus solely on AirAsia and AirAsia X [the Malaysia-listed long-haul, low-cost airline]."
Earlier this month he appointed Ruben Gnanalingam, a fellow Malaysian businessman, as co-chairman of QPR.
Load-Date: June 28, 2015
End of Document
Ryan's turbulent flight path
Ryan's turbulent flight path
Sunday Business Post
June 28, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIVING
Length: 1075 words
Body
**Reviewed this week**
**Ryan - A Legacy**
*RTE One*
**Escape to the Wild**
*Channel 4*
.......
What goes moo, gives milk and links Denis O'Brien and Michael O'Leary? Ryanair boss O'Leary has a prize 
Aberdeen Angus herd down in Gigginstown. And when in 1982, O'Brien started work as PA for Ryanair's founder 
Tony Ryan, he was sent off to buy an entire herd of cows for the boss's estate. And him a    city slicker   too.
Maybe this focus on beasts prefigured Ryanair's later reputation for treating its passengers like cattle (though 
clearly not as prize herds). Tony Ryan, subject of RTE's **Ryan - A Legacy**, however, never did quite lose his 
magnate's taste for more glamorous flying. He liked Concord, and there were arguments between himself and 
O'Leary - successor to O'Brien as Ryan's PA - as to who made the most of the no-frills template pioneered in the 
United States by Herb Kelleher and Southwest Airlines.
As O'Leary said in the programme, he had to struggle hard to convince Ryan you couldn't run a Concord service on 
Ryanair prices:    I wasn't about to listen to Tony telling me we needed to be loved''. Ryanair just needed to be 
cheaper.
Initially, in 1985, the airline had been aimed at business people and was losing money before O'Leary moved in. 
The mass-market version of Ryanair began with noisy, smoky, Romanian-built Rombac 1-11 aircraft - versions of 
Ryan's turbulent flight path
the ageing British BAC 1-11, and Romanian pilots who were popularly believed to have been issued with school 
atlases.
Tony Ryan's flight path is that of the classic entrepreneur, the sometimes wobbly curve of an individual propelled 
from humble origins by ingenuity and self-belief. Careers such as this, however, are seldom wholly admirable, 
unless ruthlessness is your sole measure.
The man who ended up vastly wealthy and owning country seats grew up in a small railway cottage in Tipperary. 
He came from a large family whose tall, striking-looking engine driver father died in his fifties.
Ryan left school and started as a uniformed clerk - effectively handling bags - at Shannon Airport and rose to 
become the Aer Lingus station manager in New York in the jet-age 1960s; the man who had married his childhood 
sweetheart at 22, and later would be associated with numerous women (rather more than were named in Judy 
Kelly's film), some of them many years his junior; the man who developed an enormously successful business and 
crashed like Icarus, seeing his sometime friends heading for the hills, then rose again.
RTE's business editor David Murphy ably piloted the narrative of Ryan's career, which really took off when Ryan 
(Murphy called him    Tony   all the way through) had the bright idea of leasing idle Aer Lingus aircraft to those who 
needed them.
He didn't last long with the airline after that, but in 1975, Aer Lingus - along with Guinness Peat, a London 
investment company - put money into what would be called Guinness Peat Aviation (GPA), launching Ryan on an 
enormously successful aircraft rental business and predictable jokes about turf-fired Irish aircraft. This version of the 
GPA story, incidentally, featured an almost all-male cast. The one exception was former executive, Jane 
O'Callaghan.
Working for Ryan came with a price: utter loyalty and a willingness to travel endlessly provided you returned for the 
8.30am conference every Monday. Ryan liked to look his people in the eye, and was the kind of boss who could 
wither with a stare of utter contempt at one of those meetings.
There was something protean in the successful businessman's ability to change and adapt. Maybe like the lucky 
soldier who, in battle, others stay close to, many executives stick to a winner and take the crap at any price. For 
some, it proved too much. According to Denis O'Brien,    half the new executives probably left within six months''.
And yet, everyone in the company from the top down had shares. And when in 1992 Ryan judged it time for the 
company to float, everyone but everyone in GPA was encouraged to buy shares, and to take out loans to do so. 
Everyone expected to make a killing.
But it didn't happen. The share price set by Ryan was too high, Operation Desert Storm had taken place. There was 
a recession. Aircraft weren't flying, lessees weren't paying their rents. Nobody bought shares. The company was 
snapped up by General Electric, leaving Ryan with debts of EUR 35 million to Merrill Lynch.    We didn't raise one 
single dollar,   said Ryan.    The flotation was a travesty.'' He had set out to raise EUR 800 million and had a grand 
plan to buy 300 aircraft.
However well put together, there wasn't a lot new in Ryan - A Legacy. But if Ryanair, which bears his name, is his 
most meaningful bequest to millions who benefit from cheap flights, can it be said that it is really his, or that of its 
brash ringmaster Michael O'Leary?
.......
Ryan had houses in many places, but none so odd as those in **Kevin McCloud's Escape to the Wild**(Channel 4). 
McCloud, who showcased some outlandish human nesting endeavours in Grand Designs (Channel 4), is following 
a number of English families who have chosen remoteness from the modern world as the place to bring up their 
children.
Ryan's turbulent flight path
So far he's met a family who live in an elaborate homemade beach house on a south seas island (yes, there are 
typhoons), another that has settled in Chile perilously close to South America's most active volcano and, last week, 
he was in the rainforest of Belize with the Atkinsons, who - with no money left - have carved out an arduous life in 
one of the most violent countries in the world and have dreams of cornering a niche in the chocolate market.
Richard Atkinson carries a gun when he patrols his property and fired a shot to scare off intruders. Jaguars have 
eaten the family dogs, snakes are big enough to take chickens; scorpions and termites are everywhere. Atkinson 
and his wife Alisa have three children who go to local schools and they are building an enormous house made up, 
so far, of 25,000 plastic bottles, 1,000 car tyres filled with earth, and 18,000 bricks made from glass bottles. The 
local builders providers is a stinking dump.
Is it mad, or utterly selfish, or both? Is it fair on the children? In the first episode the oldest boy on that idyllic tropical 
island, wanted out and is now in boarding school in New Zealand. A craving for company other than that of his 
parents and siblings saw him make a reverse break for freedom, a return to a life more ordinary.
Load-Date: June 29, 2015
End of Document
A lift-off achieved against all the odds
A lift-off achieved against all the odds
Sunday Business Post
June 28, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 961 words
Body
Tony Ryan created new paradigms in aviation through the aircraft operating lease and the creation of Ryanair as 
not just a low-cost operator, but the lowest-cost operator in the world. Forty years ago, when Guinness Peat 
Aviation (GPA) was founded, the aviation world consisted of national airlines owned and controlled by governments 
operating as a cartel where everything from price to route allocation was regulated.
Airlines purchased their planes from a small number of manufacturers and held these aircraft for their economic life. 
GPA flourished by operating an alternative of leasing the aircraft for a five-year period and removed the need to 
have capital tied up in aircraft ownership. This had the effect of opening up the aviation market to new entrants 
which, combined with deregulation, transformed the aviation experience for everyone - not just the wealthy few who 
could already afford to travel.
Although GPA did not survive the failure of its IPO in 1992, the business model thrived, and Ireland has since 
become the world centre for aircraft leasing. I recall meeting Tony Ryan for drinks at the Carlyle Hotel in New York 
in July 1992, when a colleague remarked:    Tony, you are looking very well, despite everything.   The response 
from Tony was a laconic:    Yes, I've lost 30lbs and $300 million!  
He refused to countenance failure, and secured GPA's future with GE Capital. The residual company cleared its 
liabilities and was sold some years later, returning a profit to its shareholders.
It was during this period of uncertainty that a new strategy for Ryanair was formulated. Since being formed in the 
mid-1980s, the airline had struggled to define itself against formidable competition from Aer Lingus.
Tony asked Ken Holden, an aviation economist, to recommend a solution for the struggling carrier. Holden quickly 
concluded that the best approach would be to adopt the South West Airlines model pioneered by the legendary 
Herb Kelleher. It was based on one aircraft type (the Boeing 737), secondary airports and low-cost operations.
A lift-off achieved against all the odds
Holden had calculated that Europe was a major opportunity for a low-cost carrier. That seems obvious now but, in 
1993, it felt like an improbable conclusion. A fully flexible return Dublin-London fare cost the equivalent of nearly 
EUR 300 at that time.
Michael O'Leary, who was working with Tony at the time, volunteered to execute the strategy. He exceeded all 
expectations, and Ryanair has become a phenomenal success story and a model widely emulated. O'Leary and 
Tony disagreed on how best to serve the customer, and Tony would have taken a quiet degree of satisfaction at the 
recent repositioning of Ryanair as a friendly, customer-oriented airline.
The success of Ryanair changed the aviation landscape of Europe. Fares dropped dramatically, and destinations 
opened up all over Europe - not just from Ireland, but from Ryanair bases in England, France, Italy and Spain. 
Airline tickets, up until that time, were on a one-size-fits-all basis. O'Leary changed this by breaking up the ticket 
into its constituent parts, and you got what you paid for. Luggage, food, preferred seating and drinks were all paid 
for separately. Aircraft turnaround times were reduced to as little as 20 minutes. Crew did not stay overnight as the 
planes returned to their home base every evening. Simple concepts now, but revolutionary back then.
By this stage, Tony was comfortable enough to take a back seat, leaving O'Leary to run the airline and David 
Bonderman of TPG to chair the board. The flotation of Ryanair on US and European stock exchanges gave Tony 
particular pleasure. Today, Ryanair carries more than 90 million passengers a year, and the low-cost model is here 
to stay. The Ryan family has also taken the low-fares model to Asia and North America, with considerable success.
Tony's commitment to Shannon and the Limerick area was immense. Not everything worked, but he kept trying to 
bring jobs and opportunities to an area blighted by long-term unemployment. Long before Google and Facebook, 
GPA was an employer which provided the best for those who worked there. The staff restaurant was free, and 
served cuisine worthy of a Michelin-starred establishment. Following the legendary Monday-morning meeting, GPA 
personnel would travel all over the world to market, maintain and develop its business. GPA was among the first to 
see the opportunity of China and Latin America. In a bleak time in the perpetual recession of Ireland in the 1980s 
and early 1990s, it was a beacon showing what could be achieved.
Tony was its driving force, but he remained an enigma to many. He was a shy, rather reserved individual who was 
demanding and, at times, unreasonable. If he did something, he did it fully.
His courage in adversity was remarkable. Shortly before the opening of the Village at Lyons complex, Tony 
received the devastating news of the illness that would take him from his friends and family a year later. Amid the 
happy gathering for the opening of the village that had been meticulously restored after 100 years, Tony told me the 
news briefly and factually. Then he went back to his guests, seemingly without a care in the world.
Tony Ryan was a patriot, a builder of a modern Ireland, and a mentor to many of the current generation of 
entrepreneurs. Few of us leave a legacy to match his. He is proof that anyone can be successful given hard work, 
commitment, single-mindedness and also luck. It was a privilege to have known and have worked with this truly 
remarkable man.
*Thomas Lynch knew Tony Ryan for 20 years. He worked with GPA Group between 1986 and 1993 while at 
KPMG, and Ryan was an early investor in his former company Amarin. He is currently chairman of Icon plc and the 
Ireland East Hospital Group*
Load-Date: June 29, 2015
End of Document
Breast implant firm plans Nasdaq float to fund growth
Breast implant firm plans Nasdaq float to fund growth
Sunday Business Post
June 28, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 403 words
Body
GC Aesthetics, the Dublin silicon breast implant company backed by tech tycoon Bill McCabe and the Barry's Tea 
family, is planning a Nasdaq listing to further take advantage of a booming $6.5 billion cosmetic surgery market.
The float will help to power expansion in new markets and acquisitions, the company is also exploring opening an 
R&D centre and a customer call centre in Ireland.
   We've a lot of very exciting plans for the future,   chief executive Ayse Kocak said last Friday.    We want to 
become the trusted brand in female aesthetics, and this IPO will help us achieve that faster.  
The board of the company includes Oyster Capital Partners Bill McCabe and Ryanair director Declan McKeon.
   Bill is a fantastic entrepreneur and it has been wonderful to have him on board as an investor. He is very 
supportive and his vision is very valuable,   said Kocak, who is herself based in Mexico but comes to Ireland 
regularly and has an apartment here.
Revenues were $52.8 million for 2014, though it had an operating loss of $15 million. For the first quarter of 2015 
revenue was around $13 million.
A breast implant company called Sientra went public on the Nasdaq last year and its stock has risen 40 per cent in 
a year, which GC sees as auguring well for its plans.
   We have very healthy revenue and had a healthy growth of our business last year and in the first quarter of this 
year,   said Kocak.
   The goal is to continue that and take more share from the competition and expand into new markets.
   We expanded into Mexico last year and that has been very successful. We're looking at new markets in the Asia 
Pacific region and this will help.  
Breast implant firm plans Nasdaq float to fund growth
Regarding Ireland, Kocak said:    We are considering doing more R&D work based in Ireland and we're talking to 
Enterprise Ireland about that.
   We do know that Ireland has some universities and institutions that are considering the silicone area of research 
that may help us develop further products.
   We have nothing formally arranged, but Enterprise Ireland has been great in guiding us in that area.
   We're considering improving what we do for our customers with a new call centre and we're considering Ireland 
for that.  
GC's main markets are Europe, the Middle East and Asia and Latin America.
It makes more than 250,000 implants a year under its Nagor and Eurosilicone brand names.
It has raised in the region of $75 million in funding in the past two years.
Load-Date: June 29, 2015
End of Document
The contracts for novelists that redefined the page turner OPINION
The contracts for novelists that redefined the page turner; OPINION
Financial Times (London, England)
June 27, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMMENT; Pg. 14
Length: 784 words
Byline: John Sutherland
Body
Amazon enrages authors", screamed one headline after the firm decided to pay some novelists only for the pages 
of their books that readers actually read.
One doubts that authors, as a class, often get enraged about anything other than the puniness of their advances, 
the nastiness of reviewers and the fact that Ian McEwan and Alain de Botton sell so many more books than they do. 
But what is certain is that writers will adapt as creatively as they always have to the book world they find themselves 
in.
Sir Walter Scott, nicknamed the Wizard of the North, was the inventor of the three-volume, hugely expensive 19th-
century novel. It was not the kind of book you would want to drop on your toe, and it took an infuriatingly long time 
for the narrative to get going. One cannot imagine Sir Walter passing the pay as you go test.
Charles Dickens' career took the form of rebellion against the "three-decker". He serialised - monthly and weekly - 
because he wanted each scene to face contact with readers while the ink on the next one was still wet and before 
the one after that was more than a gleam in his eye. Was there ever a more hook-in-the-jaw opening to a novel 
than that of Bleak House - the one-word sentence: "London"? He would pass the test.
In the 20th century the novel went anorexic, shrinking from the more than 300,000 words of George Eliot's 
Middlemarch , to the 60,000 of Graham Greene's Brighton Rock . Public libraries - for a time the leading 
disseminators of reading matter, three-quarters of whose loans were fiction - are the reason why. They allowed 
The contracts for novelists that redefined the page turner OPINION
patrons to take out six books for a two-week period, after which fines were levied. Six Middlemarches  in 14 days? 
Do the maths.
Not that thinness is everywhere. The book "everyone" is reading (but that not everyone wants everyone to know 
they are reading) is EL James's Grey . It's a doorstopper - 576 pages - and why? Look out of your window. The sun 
is shining. You only take one book to the beach (those punitive Ryanair luggage rules). But you want it to last a 
fortnight. The beach book is an obese creature.
So how will "pay as you go" pressure change the way novels are written (assuming it takes off, as I hope it will)? It 
will foster a sharper kind of book, I suspect. Writers will generate more suspense - page turners will be valuable 
currency in the era of the page earner.
In the larger world of books my hunch is that the present trend towards self-publishing and on-demand electronic 
sales will grow. Fifty Shades of Grey , one recalls, originated as the self-published online venture of a coffee-shop 
reading group. The clattering old apparatus for putting words in front of readers has been replaced by the tablet 
computer and various ingenious devices for generating social media buzz. We shall see more of the progress from 
creative writing class, to self-publication, recruitment of a fan-group (all puffing the book in Amazon reviews ), and 
eventual pick-up by an above-ground publisher.
Amazon , and its founder Jeff Bezos, generate little affection. We tend to see Kindle as the anaconda of the literary 
world, throttling walk-in bookshops. Clicking is so much less civilised than browsing, but it is irresistibly convenient. 
There is resentment that the firm cunningly (but legally) avoids paying UK tax, with a pseudo-headquarters in 
Ruritania or somewhere. Then there is the stubborn fact of its being American - all those pounds becoming dollars. 
Some delicate souls maintain that the company panders to lazy readers and truncates the attention spans of our 
corruptible youth.
The long and short of it is that we will never love Mr Bezos, even if he has cheapened the product (I mean, made it 
less expensive) and conjured a second life for 3m back-listed books. However, like him or not, Mr Bezos is calling 
the shots.
The per-page thing is trivial, affecting only the self-published books available on its subscription reading service. But 
it is a feather in the wind. Non-trivial are the changes that are coming. Books, having escaped their physical covers, 
will come with all sorts of audiovisual accompaniment - optional soundtracks, dramatised excerpts, authorial 
voiceover. Scenic linkage. Computer game intermarriage. Narrative that is unfixed but mutates as the author thinks 
again. For scholars, an authorial record going back to manuscript and primal alteration. Books will be platforms, not 
contained packages.
All these things are technologically possible and it is prediction not prophecy that they, or things like them, will 
happen. To paraphrase the singer Al Jolson, hailing the arrival of the cinema talkie: "You ain't read nothing yet."
 The writer is professor emeritus at University College London
Load-Date: June 26, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair starts gearing up for Christmas Ryanair starts ...
Ryanair starts gearing up for Christmas; Ryanair starts ...
Business World (Digest)
June 26, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 117 words
Highlight: In a press release issued yesterday, Ryanair announced that they are launching their countdown to 
Christmas. They will be adding over 3,500 extra flights across theirEuropean network for the Christmas holidays.
Body
In a press release issued yesterday, Ryanair announced that they are launching their countdown to Christmas. 
They will be adding over 3,500 extra flights across theirEuropean network for the Christmas holidays.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "The countdown to Christmas is officially underway with just 6 months to go! Last 
Christmas, Ryanair carried over 3.5m customers over the festive period and we're ensuring even more customers 
will be flying home for Christmas on the lowest fares once more this year.
We've added over 3,500 extra flights across our entire European network for the Christmas holidays, with an 
additional 660,000 seats now on sale on the Ryanair.com website."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 1, 2015
End of Document
IAG offers concessions in bid for EU approval for Aer Lingus deal IAG offers conc...
IAG offers concessions in bid for EU approval for Aer Lingus deal; IAG 
offers conc...
Business World (Digest)
June 25, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 219 words
Highlight: British Airways-owner IAG has offered concessions in an attempt to win European Union regulatory 
approval for its planned acquisition of a 25 percent stake in Ireland's Aer Lingus, the European Commission said on 
Thursday.
Body
British Airways-owner IAG has offered concessions in an attempt to win European Union regulatory approval for its 
planned acquisition of a 25 percent stake in Ireland's Aer Lingus, the European Commission said on Thursday.
IAG wants to expand lucrative transatlantic services from Dublin airport where there is spare capacity, unlike 
London's Heathrow where its biggest unit, British Airways, is based.
The Commission said it had extended the deadline for its decision on the bid to July 15 from July 1.
IAG submitted its concessions on Wednesday, the EU competition authority said on its website, without providing 
details. An IAG spokesman said: "IAG's engagement with the Commission is ongoing, and it would be inappropriate 
to comment further at this stage." Aer Lingus was not immediately available to comment. Sources told Reuters last 
week that the Commission was unlikely to approve the stake buy without concessions from IAG to allay competition 
concerns. Airlines typically offer to give up airport slots, allow rivals access to connecting traffic or let competitors 
sell tickets on their flights on certain routes to secure regulatory clearance. IAG's Aer Lingus bid is conditional on 
agreement from Europe's biggest budget airline Ryanair, which has a 30 percent stake. (Reuters) Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 30, 2015
End of Document
Public relations is not dead - it just bought me lunch
Public relations is not dead - it just bought me lunch
Financial Times (London, England)
June 25, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: BOOK REVIEW; Pg. 14
Length: 533 words
Byline: Henry Mance
Body
Trust Me, PR is Dead
By Robert Phillips
Unbound, £9.99
I wanted to like this book. I wanted to believe it. But quickly its account of the business world came across as 
simplistic and naive.
Let's start with the title: Trust Me, PR is Dead . This is clearly unexpected for someone like me, who receives 
dozens of phone calls and emails weekly from living and breathing public relations people. The other day I was 
even bought lunch by a PR, whose only symptom of being dead was a certain lack of conversational spark.
Of course, the author, Robert Phillips, is making the broader point that PR, spin or "managing the message" is 
inadequate in today's complex world. Given that Phillips once ran the European operations of Edelman, the world's 
biggest PR company, this is controversial.
His argument is that companies can either earn trust through real public leadership (think Unilever's sustainability 
push) or just accept they are "asshole brands" (the Ryanair of old). Anyone in between is a phoney who will be 
Public relations is not dead - it just bought me lunch
exposed - on social media, by whistleblowers or, like banks, by their egregious business practices. "Old PR paints 
lipstick on pigs," Phillips writes.
Maybe, but it also paints lipstick on humans - some of whom look a lot more attractive as a result. And that is one of 
Phillips' shortcomings: he never addresses those instances where a bit of good PR might suffice. Recently, tour 
operator Thomas Cook was criticised over its handling of the death of two children during one of its holidays: it did 
not need to overhaul its business model, it needed better communications advice .
In fact, Phillips inadvertently disproves his own argument. He writes admiringly of Apple because Tim Cook says he 
did not consider the return on investment when considering adapting the iPhone to the needs of blind people. Hold 
on - is this the same Apple that keeps billions of dollars in cash offshore, thereby avoiding US tax, and which lagged 
behind other phonemakers in admitting it used ruinously- extracted tin ? It seems Apple's PR worked so well that 
even Phillips was fooled.
He is not fooled by Sir Richard Branson, however, whom he describes as a "phoney" and a "careful PR construct". 
But he never reconciles that with Sir Richard's success: good PR has made him millions.
There is another way that Phillips undermines his own point. He rails against intermediaries, such as traditional 
book publishers, proudly noting that his text was published by Unbound, a crowdsourcing platform. Unbound has 
many virtues, but a reader of Trust Me  may wonder whether it received a sufficiently rigorous edit.
The argument is dropped almost randomly across 278 pages, like chunks of a drunk's kebab.
Trust Me is a missed opportunity because Phillips' general thrust is worthwhile. He rightly argues that businesses 
should be answering key social and environmental problems. The difficulty is that he tries to link all this to the future 
of the PR industry, something that is fairly tangential.
When the ebook version came out earlier this year, it divided opinion in the PR sector. This edition does not answer 
its critics - let's hope Phillips writes a follow-up that does.
The writer is the FT's media correspondent
Load-Date: June 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Tops In International Traffic
Ryanair Tops In International Traffic
RTT News (United States)
June 24, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 238 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish no-frills airline Ryanair beat all other airlines around the globe in international traffic. World Airline 
Transport Statistics from the International Air Transport Association (IATA) listed Ryanair as the number one airline 
that carried 86.3 million international passengers last year.
Easyjet came in the second position with 56.3 million passengers, while Deutsche Lufthansa carried 48.2 million 
passengers.
The global trade association of airlines said Emirates was ranked fifth in the list with 47.28 million passengers. 
British Airways, Air France, Turkish Airlines, KLM, United Airlines, and Delta Airlines are the other airlines found 
their place in the top ten list.
Robin Kiely, communications head of Ryanair said, "IATA has once again confirmed that Ryanair remains the 
world's favourite airline, carrying more international scheduled customers than any other carrier. Alongside our new 
routes, increased frequencies, Business Plus and Family Extra services, Ryanair customers can now look forward 
to further service enhancements, as we roll out Year 2 of our Always Getting Better programme in 2015."
For July and August, Ryanair has released 100,000 seats for sale across European network at prices starting from 
19.99 euros. These low fare seats are available for booking until midnight June 25.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair named as World's favourite airline Ryanair named a...
Ryanair named as World's favourite airline; Ryanair named a...
Business World (Digest)
June 23, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Highlight: It was announced today that Ryanair has been confirmed by IATA as the world's favourite airline after 
IATA's latest World Airline Transport Statistics showed Ryanair once again carried more international customers 
than any other airline.
Body
It was announced today that Ryanair has been confirmed by IATA as the world's favourite airline after IATA's latest 
World Airline Transport Statistics showed Ryanair once again carried more international customers than any other 
airline.
It is estimated that Ryanair carried over 86.3m international passengers last year, 30m more than second-placed 
Easyjet (56.3m) and almost 40m more than third-placed Lufthansa (48.2m).
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "IATA has once again confirmed that Ryanair remains the world's favourite airline, 
carrying more international scheduled customers than any other carrier. Alongside our new routes, increased 
frequencies, Business Plus and Family Extra services, Ryanair customers can now look forward to further service 
enhancements, as we roll out Year 2 of our Always Getting Better programme in 2015."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 26, 2015
End of Document
Stocks Move Sharply Higher, Nasdaq Reaches New Record High - U.S. Commentary
Stocks Move Sharply Higher, Nasdaq Reaches New Record High - U.S. 
Commentary
RTT News (United States)
June 22, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 635 words
Body
(RTTNews) - After moving sharply higher at the open, stocks have seen some further upside over the course of the 
trading day on Monday. With the strength on the day, the tech-heavy Nasdaq has reached a new record intraday 
high.
In recent trading, the major averages have pulled back off their highs, but they remain firmly positive. The Dow is up 
139.93 points or 0.8 percent at 18,155.88, the Nasdaq is up 40.22 points or 0.8 percent at 5,157.23 and the S&P 
500 is up 16.92 points or 0.8 percent at 2,126.91.
The strength on Wall Street largely reflects optimism that Greece will finally reach an agreement with its 
international creditors.
Greece has reportedly submitted a new proposal that could lead to progress and allow the debt-laden country to 
avoid a default.
Jonathan Loynes, Chief European Economist at Capital Economics, said, "The optimism stems from new proposals 
advanced by Greece over the weekend, which reportedly cross the previous 'red lines' of pension cuts and VAT 
rises."
"In exchange, Greece's creditors have apparently indicated that they are prepared to meet the Greek government's 
demands for some sort of debt relief to be included in an extension to the current bailout or a third program," he 
added.
Adding to the optimism, Eurogroup President Jeroen Dijsselbloem described the Greek proposal as a positive step 
and said an agreement could be reached later this week.
The latest signs of progress come as Greece has indicated that it will be unable to make a 1.5 billion euro payment 
to the International Monetary Fund at the end of the month without further aid.
Positive sentiment has also been generated by a report from the National Association of Realtors showing that 
existing home sales jumped to their highest level in almost six years in May.
The report said existing home sales surged up by 5.1 percent to an annual rate of 5.35 million in May from an 
upwardly revised 5.09 million in April.
Stocks Move Sharply Higher, Nasdaq Reaches New Record High - U.S. Commentary
Economists had expected existing home sales to climb to an annual rate of 5.25 million from the 5.04 million 
originally reported for the previous month.
Sector News
Airline stocks have moved sharply higher over the course of the trading day, driving the NYSE Arca Airline Index up 
by 1.7 percent. The gain extends a recent upward move by the index, which has reached its best intraday level in a 
month.
SkyWest (SKYW), Avianca Holdings (AVH), and Ryanair (RYAAY) are turning in some of the airline sector's best 
performances on the day.
Considerable strength has also emerged among biotechnology stocks, reflected by the 1.7 percent gain being 
posted by the NYSE Arca Biotechnology Index. With the gain, the index has set a new three-month intraday high.
Pharmaceutical, brokerage, and banking stocks are also seeing significant strength, moving higher along with most 
of the other major sectors.
Meanwhile, gold stocks are bucking the uptrend by the broader markets, dragging the NYSE Arca Gold Bugs Index 
down by 1.2 percent. The weakness in the sector comes as gold for August delivery is falling $15.90 to $1,186 an 
ounce.
Other Markets
In overseas trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region moved mostly higher during trading on Monday. 
Japan's Nikkei 225 Index surged up by 1.3 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index jumped by 1.2 percent.
The major European markets also moved sharply higher on the day. While the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index shot up by 
1.7 percent, the French CAC 40 Index and the German DAX Index both soared by 3.8 percent.
In the bond market, treasuries have come under pressure amid optimism about the situation in Greece. As a result, 
the yield on the benchmark ten-year note, which moves opposite of its price, is up by 8.6 basis points at 2.353 
percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 22, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus seeks Heathrow slots backing Travel & leisure
Aer Lingus seeks Heathrow slots backing; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
June 20, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 402 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Highlight: Investors weigh deal with IAG to keep Irish routes focus for seven years
Body
Aer Lingus is to ask its shareholders to approve arrangements under which its take-off and landing slots at 
London's Heathrow airport will continue to be focused on Irish routes after a proposed takeover of the flag carrier by 
International Airlines Group.
IAG, parent of British Airways and Iberia, secured the Irish government's backing for the takeover by pledging that 
Aer Lingus's Heathrow slots would be maintained on Irish routes for seven years.
Aer Lingus's shareholders will vote on July 16 on whether to accept these arrangements.
The Irish government had faced political opposition to the sale of its 25 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, and keeping 
the flag carrier's Heathrow slots focused on flights to Dublin, Cork and Shannon was seen as vital to winning public 
acceptance for the IAG takeover.
IAG's official offer document for Aer Lingus was sent to the its shareholders yesterday.
It involves a cash offer of EUR2.50 and dividend of EUR0.05 a share, valuing Aer Lingus's equity at EUR1.4bn.
Aer Lingus's shareholders are expected to accept the offer, but the airline warned in a letter to shareholders 
containing the IAG offer document that failure to pass the "connectivity resolutions" governing the use of the 
Aer Lingus seeks Heathrow slots backing Travel & leisure
Heathrow slots and other conditions of the takeover "could result in the minister for finance of Ireland not accepting 
the offer and the offer lapsing".
If the takeover goes through, Dublin will receive a special share in Aer Lingus that will in effect give it the right to 
veto any change to the use of the flag carrier's Heathrow slots.
Both supporters and opponents of the takeover insisted that continued access to Heathrow was a vital Irish national 
interest that had to be taken into account by IAG .
Willie Walsh, IAG chief and a former Aer Lingus head and pilot, has pledged to create more jobs if IAG succeeds in 
buying Aer Lingus, and to expand its transatlantic services through Dublin airport. Aer Lingus will retain its brand 
and Dublin headquarters.
The IAG offer values the Irish state's stake at EUR335m, which the government has pledged to invest in 
infrastructure projects.
The success of IAG's offer for Aer Lingus depends on Ryanair, which owns 29.8 per cent of its Irish rival and is the 
largest shareholder.
Ryanair has made several unsuccessful attempts to buy Aer Lingus, but was last week ordered by the UK 
Competition and Markets Authority to cut its stake to 5 per cent.
Load-Date: June 19, 2015
End of Document
Goldsmith says Heathrow plan is undeliverable
Goldsmith says Heathrow plan is undeliverable
City A.M.
June 18, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 329 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON
Body
CONSERVATIVE MP Zac Goldsmith stepped up his campaign against the expansion of Heathrow airport 
yesterday, and said adding to the existing site is "politically undeliverable".
The environmentalist MP for Richmond Park launched a new website, www.heathrowflightpaths.co.uk, which 
features on its homepage a map purporting to show the areas of London that will be affected by new flightpaths 
from an expanded Heathrow.
The Airports Commission decision on whether to expand Heathrow or Gatwick is imminent.
In a statement yesterday Goldsmith described Heathrow as the largest noise polluter in Europe "by a significant 
margin", adding that over 725,000 people are currently affected by noise, a figure "likely to increase to over 
1,000,000 people if a third runway is built".
Goldsmith said: "As countless hundreds of thousands of new residents are made aware of the threat they face, the 
campaign can only grow. We have won the arguments on pollution, congestion, cost and competition, but the bot-
tom line is that, politically, Heathrow expansion is undeliverable."
He was joined at yesterday's launch by Mayor of London Boris Johnson and MP for Putney Justine Greening at the 
House of Commons.
Johnson praised Goldsmiths's "determined campaign" to block expansion at Heathrow, and commented: "The 
Airports Commission must realise that, if it is mad enough to recommend a third runway at Heathrow, the backlash 
from Londoners will ensure it is never built."
Goldsmith says Heathrow plan is undeliverable
Meanwhile, the chiefs of Europe's five largest airlines - Air France KLM, Easyjet, International Airlines Group, 
Lufthansa Group and Ryanair - got together for the first time yesterday in Brussels.
The airline bosses agreed to lobby for a new EU aviation strategy, which they say will "strengthen the 
competitiveness of European airlines, ensure jobs and growth through innovation".
They also called on the new transport commissioner, to "drive more competition, encourage more efficiency and 
help reduce costs" in the industry.
Load-Date: June 18, 2015
End of Document
Europe's top airlines forget rivalry to set up trade body Travel & leisure
Europe's top airlines forget rivalry to set up trade body; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
June 18, 2015 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 509 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
Europe's five largest aviation groups are to form a trade body taking in flag carriers and budget airlines to lobby for 
change in public policy and regulation.
The chief executives of Air France-KLM, easyJet, International Airlines Group, Lufthansa and Ryanair teamed up 
yesterday to call for fresh European initiatives to cut taxes and lessen the impact of strikes.
The formation of the group, which will be launched in October, follows disagreement among European flag carriers 
over how to respond to the swift rise of Gulf airlines . The spat caused tensions in the Association of European 
Airlines, which has long represented flag carriers, and led IAG and others to leave.
The new organisation aims to be more effective than the six bodies that represent European airlines . The five chief 
executives said they would "set aside our competitive battles" to focus on creating a coherent strategy that is 
intended to rival US-style lobbying.
During the past 20 years, easyJet and Ryanair have taken market share in the European short-haul market from the 
flag carriers, but Willie Walsh , of IAG, said the airlines agreed on 80 per cent of issues and felt it was important to 
have one "effective voice". Alexandre de Juniac, of Air France-KLM, noted that growing competition from Gulf 
carriers was one area in which the five did not agree. He said it was an issue that would be dealt with by each 
airline.
Europe's top airlines forget rivalry to set up trade body Travel & leisure
The chiefs urged Violeta Bulc , the European transport commissioner, to help cut costs at large airports and air 
traffic control providers. Carolyn McCall, of easyJet, expressed frustration at the "slowness" of efforts to harmonise 
the management of Europe's airspace.
The Single European Sky initiative, launched 15 years ago with the aim of improving safety and cutting aviation 
charges, has sparked industrial disputes that have disrupted flights and delayed the benefits of airspace co-
ordination.
Michael O'Leary , of Ryanair, called for action to curb strikes by air traffic control staff, noting that in the first half of 
this year industrial action meant 3,000 flights were cancelled.
John Strickland, aviation analyst at JLS Consulting, said it was "remarkable" for such a collection of chief 
executives to speak in unison. "It's right they are going to focus on a coherent, one-voice industry approach and 
push aside all the other differences in business model, strategy and philosophy."
Air France, easyJet, Lufthansa and Ryanair declined to comment on whether they would leave trade bodies, which 
include the AEA and the European Low Fares Airline Association.
Europe's legacy airlines are divided over whether to co-operate with the Gulf carriers. Qatar Airways is IAG's largest 
shareholder and IAG, parent of British Airways and Iberia, played a key role in bringing QA into the Oneworld 
alliance. Lufthansa has expressed concern about whether it is competing on equal terms with Gulf carriers. Air 
France-KLM had expressed concerns about the Gulf carriers, but in the past three years has developed a 
partnership with Etihad Airways of Abu Dhabi.
Load-Date: June 17, 2015
End of Document
European airlines push to limit impact of strikes, cut taxes
European airlines push to limit impact of strikes, cut taxes
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 17, 2015 Wednesday 11:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 135 words
Dateline: BRUSSELS 
Body
BRUSSELS (AP) - Leading European airlines are lobbying for new rules in Europe to lessen the impact of strikes 
and reduce taxes, pushing for what they call more American-style aviation rules.
The CEOs of Air France KLM, Lufthansa, Easyjet, Ryanair and International Airlines Group held an unusual 
meeting in Brussels on Wednesday and expressed frustration at the slowness of efforts to simplify European air 
traffic control systems.
Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said they want to use technology to allow air space over a country to stay open when air 
traffic controllers go on strike. He argued for "first-step measures" for workers to air concerns before resorting to a 
strike.
Air traffic control workers fear threats to passenger safety and to their jobs and say the EU is yielding to industry 
pressure to cut costs.
Load-Date: June 18, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to increase flights on London Luton to Copenhagen service
Ryanair to increase flights on London Luton to Copenhagen service
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 17, 2015 Wednesday 7:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 99 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will increase flights on its London Luton to Copenhagen service 
from three times daily to four times daily, as part of its winter 2015 schedule.
Body
Ryanair's Luton winter 2015 schedule will deliver: a new route to Copenhagen (4 x daily); 11 routes in total; over 
1.4m customers p.a.; and support 1,400 on-site jobs at Luton airport. Ryanair's Head of Communications, Robin 
Kiely said: "To celebrate our extended London Luton to Copenhagen service, we are releasing 100,000 seats on 
sale across our entire European network from GBP19.99 for travel in June, which are available for booking until 
midnight Monday (8 June). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto 
www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: June 23, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair May passenger traffic increases 16%
Ryanair May passenger traffic increases 16%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 16, 2015 Tuesday 10:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 159 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of May 2015 was 9.5 million 
passengers, an increase of 16%, compared to 8.2 million passengers for May 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of May 2015 was 92%, an increase of seven percentage points, compared to 85% for 
May 2014. Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's May traffic grew by 16% to 9.5m 
customers, while our load factor jumped by 7% points to 92%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward 
bookings and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme, 
which continues to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded summer schedule. 
"Alongside our new routes, increased frequencies, Business Plus and Family Extra services, Ryanair customers 
can now look forward to further service enhancements, as we roll out Year 2 of our AGB programme in 2015, which 
includes a new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms, improved inflight menus, reduced fees, 
and great new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and price comparison services."
Load-Date: June 22, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair 's better image campaign hits obstacles in Denmark Ryanair 's bette...
Ryanair's better image campaign hits obstacles in Denmark; Ryanair's 
bette...
Business World (Digest)
June 15, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 664 words
Highlight: Ryanair's quest for a less prickly image faces a test in Denmark, where a court case starting Monday will 
decide if it has to treat local staff according to Danish rules or the less generous standards of its Irish home market.
Body
Ryanair's quest for a less prickly image faces a test in Denmark, where a court case starting Monday will decide if it 
has to treat local staff according to Danish rules or the less generous standards of its Irish home market.
Its efforts to improve public perceptions, central to its profit-boosting ambitions, have hit obstacles in the Nordic 
country, where unions, politicians and investors have raised objections to the working terms which underpin its 
discount prices.
The results have included flight disruptions, blows traded on Twitter and investors dumping its shares. The issue 
has even been dragged into an election campaign.
If labour unions win the case and Ryanair fails to sign a Danish collective agreement within five days, they said they 
will disrupt its operations. "Ryanair won't be able to get fuel, luggage handling, food, cleaning, security and other 
things," Peter Nisbeth, a lawyer for the Danish Confederation of Trade Unions, told Reuters. Stung by criticism of 
poor customer relations, Ryanair has set out to improve its services and its efforts have already been rewarded. 
Last month it reported a 66 percent jump in profit after tax after passenger numbers grew almost three times the 
targeted level. Low costs remain an important aspect of Ryanair's appeal but for staff, its policy of employing people 
in countries such as Denmark under the less generous terms of Ireland are a bone of contention. Which is why its 
commencement of flights from Copenhagen, also in line with plans to increase customer satisfaction by reducing 
reliance on smaller regional airports, was held up protesters. Ryanair will not disclose its employment contracts in 
Denmark, which unions say breaks local law. The Danish Flight Personnel Union (FPU) says a newly hired flight 
attendant working for Ryanair supplier Crewlink in Copenhagen gets less than half the lowest wage at Danish 
airline Cimber and below Danish unemployment benefits. HIGH TAXES Additionally, the FPU says, its staff working 
out of Copenhagen have to pay Danish taxes, some of the highest in Europe, irrespective of whether they have a 
Ryanair 's better image campaign hits obstacles in Denmark Ryanair 's bette...
Danish collective agreement. "This case is being followed around the world. I've talked to cabin crew from Malaysia 
and the U.S., and especially in Europe the case is being followed very intensively," FPU Vice Chairman Anders 
Jensen said. Ryanair says its pilots and cabin crew in Denmark enjoy high pay, job security and are covered by a 
collective agreement. It said its pilots earn up to 150,000 euros a year and cabin crew up to 35,000 euros. But it has 
not managed to avoid negative reactions from some investors. PensionDanmark, a pension fund managing dollar 
26 billion of savings from members of 10 Danish labour unions, a year ago sold all its Ryanair shares, worth about 
dollar 7.5 million Other pension funds including the country's largest investor ATP have also voiced concerns over 
Ryanair's labour practices and said they are considering offloading the shares. In an email, Ryanair said: "There are 
plenty of buyers out there who would be only too happy to buy these shares." Meanwhile the Copenhagen 
municipality and several other Danish cities have banned staff from using Ryanair for work purposes as, they say, 
its labour conditions do not live up to their requirements for suppliers. Two left-wing political parties have demanded 
the Danish state follow suit, dragging the issue into an election campaign ahead of a June 18 vote. Showing it 
hasn't entirely lost its feisty approach, Ryanair took the row to Twitter, posting a picture of the Copenhagen mayor 
imposed on a painting of Marie Antoinette with "Let them pay high fares" written next to the famous quote "Let them 
eat cake", ascribed to the 18th century French queen as a sign of her indifference to the plight of common people. 
The mayor, Frank Jensen, tweeted he was happy to be "a symbol of the struggle for decent conditions on the 
Danish labour market".(Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 19, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
June 14, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 666 words
Body
**Cairn is first listed homebuilder in nearly 20 years**
Cairn Homes became the first Irish housebuilder to the join the stock market in nearly 20 years last week.
The company last week raised almost EUR 385 million from new investors, which will be used to acquire and 
develop homes in Ireland and Britain. Cairn said it has five sites ready to develop, and it is in talks to acquire four 
further land banks for housebuilding; an additional nine sites are under consideration.
   The Cairn business model is unique in Ireland and will enable us to build quality homes in areas of particular need 
at a time of significant under-supply,   said Michael Stanley, the co-founder and chief executive of the company.
Cairn said just 3,300 new homes were built in Dublin last year, even though there is demand for up to 10,000 
homes. Stanley said Cairn may be the only housebuilder of scale in the country able to deliver a large number of 
units.
..........................
**Malin invests in drug companies**
Malin, the Dublin-based biotech fund, has spent EUR 65 million on two drug companies, the first investments since 
it became a quoted company earlier this year.
Malin, which is backed by high-profile Irish and global investors, pumped $35 million (EUR 31.1 million) into Melinta, 
a company that is developing antibiotic treatments for bacterial infections. As part of the deal, it may invest a further 
$10 million over time.
It is also acquiring a 65 per cent shareholding in a Dublin company called Altan Pharma.
Boardroom Briefing
   Altan is Malin's third Irish operating asset and we look forward to building out the company from its Irish base. 
Altan offers Malin significant exposure to the fast-growing injectable drug market, which is also benefitting from the 
increasing demand for generic drugs,   said John Given, the chairman of Malin.
Malin has now made nine investments since the company was set up by a group of former executives in Irish drug 
company Elan.
..........................
**Ryanair ordered to sell Aer Lingus stake**
Ryanair has been ordered by Britain's competition watchdog, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), to 
reduce its shareholding in Aer Lingus to 5 per cent from 29.8 per cent.
Ryanair said the ruling was    manifestly wrong and flies in the face of the current IAG offer for Aer Lingus  .
The CMA has been investigating for some years now whether Ryanair's shareholding exercised an undue influence 
on its rival.
Ryanair said in a statement that it has instructed its lawyers to appeal the decision,    given that it is factually 
unsustainable and legally flawed as the IAG offer for Aer Lingus proceeds  .
..........................
**CRH eyes South Korean takeover**
CRH is reportedly interested in buying a South Korean cement producer for about EUR 800 million.
Mergermarket, a global deal-tracking website, said the Irish building materials company has hired investment bank 
Goldman Sachs to advise it on buying a 74 per cent stake in Tongyang Cement & Energy. Tongyang is the second-
biggest cement maker in South Korea and had sales of EUR 450 million last year.
CRH has been on an acquisition spree this year after paying EUR 6.5 billion to take over some assets from rivals 
Holcim and Lafarge. But its chief executive Albert Manifold said despite the huge purchases, the company still had 
the firepower for further takeovers.
..........................
**Tesco tops league again**
Tesco resumed its position as Ireland's number one supermarket chain last week, according to figures published by 
research company Kantar WorldPanel.
The British company controlled 25.2 per cent of the Irish grocery market for the 12 weeks to the end of May. It 
reclaimed the spot from Supervalu, which had a 24.8 per cent share of the market. Tesco sales have recovered 
after a difficult few years for the company, which saw it surrender its leading position to Supervalu in March.
Dunnes stores sales also rose, giving it a 21.9 per cent share, while Aldi and Lidl had a combined 15.1 per cent 
share.
Load-Date: June 15, 2015
End of Document
Ownership of media matters for democracy
Ownership of media matters for democracy
Sunday Business Post
June 14, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 810 words
Body
In 2012, the then minister for communications, Pat Rabbitte, indicated that the government proposed to legislate to 
deal with the question of media ownership in a Competition Bill to be published in the autumn of 2012.
He said that he had intended to deal with the issue in a single-issue    break-out   bill but that this idea had been 
shelved. The impression given was that a media ownership bill was certainly a priority for the government. The 
Competition Bill was one which would have fallen within the responsibility of minister Richard Bruton.
In 2011, Pat Rabbitte had expressed concern about the nature of media ownership in Ireland and had stated that it 
was    unhealthy for Irish democracy   and that    lack of political will   had prevented previous governments from 
dealing with the matter.
At that time, I delivered a paper at a seminar organised by Competition magazine that the new law should include 
provisions requiring persons who already had an over-concentration of media power to bring their media holdings 
into line with any new criteria by which future media mergers would be judged.
In other words, I was pointing out that it did not make sense to establish criteria by which any future merger or 
concentration of media power would be judged while at the same time leaving all existing arrangements untouched.
If any existing concentration of media power could be considered excessive in the context of any future merger or 
acquisition, I argued there was no constitutional reason in principle why the new law should not empower a 
regulatory body to require actual divestment of existing interests to achieve compliance with the criteria to be 
applied to other media owners in the future.
The concept of divestment in the area of competition law is not novel; the British regulator is, at the moment, 
requiring Ryanair to engage in divestment of the great majority of its shareholding in Aer Lingus.
While existing property rights are protected under the Constitution, they are not sacrosanct. If there is a legitimate, 
constitutional, legislative purpose in controlling concentration of media ownership, then control of concentration by 
Ownership of media matters for democracy
divestment of existing holdings is as legitimate as control to prevent further future concentration so long as persons 
obliged to engage in divestment are given a reasonable opportunity means of realising the fair present value of the 
interests or shares they must dispose of.
The oft-neglected terms of Article 45 of the Constitution actually mandate the Oireachtas to enact laws to counter 
monopolistic over-concentration of economic market power    in a few individuals to the common detriment  .
The proposed criteria announced last week by Pat Rabbitte's successor, Alex White, under the law enacted by the 
government in 2014 do not address the existing situation at all. This is hardly surprising. The reforming Act in 2014 
studiously ignored existing media concentration while piously making provision for controlling future changes in 
media ownership.
Shades of St Augustine, I think:    Make me holy, but not just yet.  
The right to establish a media base to propagate a viewpoint is important; the internet has made that    freedom of 
speech   right a lot more accessible than it was in the context of regulated, impartial public broadcasting coupled 
with a national print media with limited or declining circulation offering little hope for new print media entrants.
Investment in the print media for profit has proved difficult. For instance, Denis O'Brien was reported in 2012 by 
Tom Lyons to have spent EUR 500 million in his bid to acquire a minority shareholding in INM. The value of his 
shareholding has been decimated since.
The manifest and proven capacity of investors and owners of the print media to influence news output is obvious; in 
a democracy where the Constitution expressly underlines the role of the media in educating public opinion, the 
moral and constitutional mandate for effective laws both to end and to prevent excessive concentration in media 
ownership is clearly present.
When the great and the powerful have the capacity to influence national debate through the media, while at the 
same time deploying their considerable resources to produce a chilling effect by threat of legal action over the 
media which they do not control, the quality of our republican democracy is challenged.
Observers of the    too little, too late   proposals made last week by Alex White may ponder the criticism fairly made 
by Pat Rabbitte in 2012 that lack of political will by others (including myself) was the explanation for an unhealthy 
concentration of media ownership and control in 2012. But in the closing months of this government in 2015, with all 
that has happened since it took office, we seem to be in the territory of conscious and deliberate choice rather than 
failure of will.
Load-Date: June 15, 2015
End of Document
5 things to watch at next week's Paris Air Show
5 things to watch at next week's Paris Air Show
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 12, 2015 Friday 1:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 814 words
Byline: By GREG KELLER, Associated Press
Dateline: PARIS 
Body
PARIS (AP) - Just eight miles from the center of Paris, the normally sleepy aerodrome in Le Bourget will undergo its 
biennial transformation into the center of the world's $700 billion aerospace and defense industry when it hosts the 
51st International Paris Air Show next week.
The world's oldest airshow was first held barely five years after the Wright brothers' famous flight off Kitty Hawk, 
North Carolina. It brings together over 300,000 trade and general visitors for a weeklong extravaganza where the 
roar of fighter jets overhead mixes with the clink of champagne glasses as executives from the world's leading 
airlines and aircraft manufacturers sign deals that can top $100 billion.
Here are five things to look out for at this year's show, opening to industry professionals Monday and to the public 
on June 19:
___
1. ORDERS RACE
Airbus and Boeing will face off in an unofficial but still closely watched competition for contracts between the 
European and American plane makers. Demand is being driven by airlines eager for new-generation, energy-
efficient planes - although the recent steep drop in the price of oil may impact upon that calculation.
At the Farnborough International Airshow last year, European jet maker Airbus clinched orders and commitments 
for 486 aircraft valued at $75 billion. Boeing said it secured business worth $40.2 billion for 201 airplanes. It was the 
second year in a row Airbus beat Boeing.
Analysts at brokerage Canaccord Genuity predict firm orders of around 300 aircraft will be signed by the two 
companies in total - a relatively low figure compared to recent years when demand was driven by new aircraft 
introductions. Both major manufacturers have set modest expectations for new orders this year.
Airbus' 20-year outlook is for 31,350 new passenger aircraft and freighters worth $4.6 trillion, while Boeing's 
equivalent forecast is for 36,770 aircraft worth $5.2 trillion.
5 things to watch at next week's Paris Air Show
___
2. WIDE BODIES
Airbus' wide-body A350 was the star of the last Paris Air Show when it made its first flight in 2013. This year Boeing 
has dominated the wide-body market, notably with its 787 plane, with 152 new orders to Airbus' 27, according to 
IHS Aerospace analyst Ben Moores.
"While Airbus has a strong wide-body backlog, they do need to be able to demonstrate a couple of strong wide-
body orders from mature stable markets to close the gap that has opened up in 2015," Moores said.
Both big manufacturers' order books are being doped by insatiable demand for single-aisle jets like Airbus' 
A320neo and Boeing's 737 MAX.
___
3. FUEL PRICE
In recent weeks airlines from budget carrier Ryanair to Middle East behemoth Emirates have all posted earnings 
that have been boosted by falling oil prices, which have cut fuel bills.
The drop was a full 36 percent for American carrier United Airlines, which said fuel costs fell below labor costs as its 
largest expense in the first quarter.
This is expected to drive aftermarket demand for older aircraft, which become more affordable to run when fuel 
costs drop.
Canaccord Genuity says the fact that this hasn't happened "is one of the key questions on the sector today."
___
4. HIGH-TECH
In the absence of major new aircraft demonstrations that have drawn attention to past shows, the focus at Bourget 
this year may turn more than usual on the whiz-bang technology presentations put on by some of the 2,000-plus 
exhibitors from around the world.
Among the head-turning items announced so far is armaments maker MBDA's High Power Laser demonstrator and 
the six-nation Meteor, an air-to-air missile to enter service later this year that its manufacturer promotes as having 
"No Escape Zone."
The European Space Agency will have presentations on its Rosetta program, the first spacecraft to orbit and land 
on a comet. It will also present its "IXV" Intermediate Experimental Vehicle - a space plane that was launched into 
orbit and returned to Earth earlier this year.
___
5. CSERIES
Canadian aircraft maker Bombardier will make one of the show's biggest unveilings when it gives the world 
premiere of its $5.4 billion CSeries program. Analysts say the project is a big risk and cost for the Montreal-based 
company.
The CS100 and CS300 on display are single-aisle planes designed to carry up to 149 people.
5 things to watch at next week's Paris Air Show
Bombardier, the world's third-largest maker of civilian commercial aircraft, has said it hopes to capture half the 
global market of the 100-to-149-seat planes, and has marketed the CSeries plane as being 20 percent more fuel-
efficient than the comparable Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 family of aircraft.
The CSeries is critical to Bombardier Aerospace, which has spent years designing the advanced-technology jet, but 
has faced development delays and what the company called "an engine-related incident" on one of the aircraft 
during ground maintenance testing last year.
___
Follow Greg Keller on Twitter at https://twitter.com/Greg_Keller
Load-Date: June 13, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair vows to fight regulator's order to cut Aer Lingus stake Travel & leisure
Ryanair vows to fight regulator's order to cut Aer Lingus stake; Travel & 
leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
June 12, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 429 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger and Tanya Powley
Body
Ryanair has vowed to pursue UK competition authorities over their decision yesterday to order a sale of the Irish 
company's 29.8 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, even if the low-cost airline accepts a bid for Ireland's flag carrier.
Michael O'Leary , Ryanair's chief executive, attacked the ruling by the UK Competition and Markets Authority that 
the group must cut its Aer Lingus stake to 5 per cent as "manifest rubbish".
The CMA's finding that Ryanair's stake could impede a bid for Aer Lingus was "completely bloody bogus", as the 
EUR1.4bn offer in January from International Airlines Group had shown, Mr O'Leary told the Financial Times. "Even 
if we accept the IAG offer, we will continue to appeal this divestment decision until it is exposed and overturned."
He continued: "We will not allow the CMA to keep this precedent. We may at some stage want to acquire someone 
and we will not have the CMA inventing bogus theories of harm."
Mr O'Leary's defiance comes after Ryanair, the largest shareholder in Aer Lingus, tried and failed three times to buy 
the flag carrier, twice because of objections by EU regulators.
Simon Polito, chairman of the Ryanair-Aer Lingus inquiry group at the CMA, said this week's ruling had been based 
on the fact that IAG's bid for Aer Lingus was conditional on the low-cost airline accepting the offer.
Ryanair vows to fight regulator's order to cut Aer Lingus stake Travel & leisure
"This recent development illustrates that Ryanair can decide whether a bid for its major competitor on UK/Irish 
routes succeeds or fails," he said. "This concern was an important part of our decision to require Ryanair to reduce 
its shareholding. It's not good for competition when one company holds such an influence over the future of one of 
its major competitors."
Ian Giles, a partner at Norton Rose Fulbright, said that Ryanair felt "vindicated" by IAG's bid because it showed 
someone could come in and make an offer for Aer Lingus, contrary to the CMA's arguments.
Analysts suspect Ryanair of wanting to use its shareholding as a bargaining chip to force concessions from IAG, 
perhaps on some of Aer Lingus's attractive take-off and landing slots at Heathrow.
Mr O'Leary said that such talks would be impossible as takeover rules barred any special deals for individual 
shareholders. He insisted that Ryanair would consider IAG's bid for Aer Lingus "with an open mind" once it received 
the offer document, expected at the end of June.
Ryanair had publicly stated that it wanted to sell its Aer Lingus stake, but refused to be forced into a fire sale, he 
said. Ryanair paid EUR407m amassing its near 30 per cent stake in Aer Lingus.
See Lombard
Load-Date: June 11, 2015
End of Document
It's the way he tells 'em
It's the way he tells 'em
Financial Times (London, England)
June 12, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 20
Length: 307 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Reporting Michael O'Leary 's outbursts is rather like reviewing an end-of-the-pier comedian's stand-up show: the 
general rule is to abhor the political incorrectness, and refuse to acknowledge that occasionally he actually might 
have a point.
Hence universal condemnation when the Ryanair boss suggested "nobody wants to sit beside a really fat bastard"; 
"We think [passengers who forget their boarding passes] should pay EUR60 for being so stupid"; and "Screw 
Bono".
However, in describing the Competition and Markets Authority order that Ryanair cut its stake in Aer Lingus as 
"completely bloody bogus", he may have surpassed himself: by managing to make a good point that is not in the 
least bit funny.
The CMA yesterday upheld its ruling that Ryanair's 29.8 per cent stake in Aer Lingus would "deter" bids from other 
airlines, before admitting that IAG had since tabled a bid and Mr O'Leary's low-cost carrier, as a shareholder in the 
target, can decide whether this bid for its Irish rival "succeeds or fails". This, apparently, is "not good for 
competition".
Consequently, the CMA is insisting on a forced sale of Ryanair's stake, to be handled by a "Divestiture Trustee" - 
on pain of court action and damages claims from investors.
It's the way he tells 'em
As Mr O'Leary notes, the argument that Ryanair has deterred bids for Aer Lingus is hard to make with a straight 
face following IAG's move, and a forced divestment - in the middle of a live bid - would set a questionable 
precedent.
It begs other questions, too. Why is a 29.8 stake deemed undue influence when the UK takeover code permits 
minority holdings of up to 30 per cent? What were regulators doing in 2008 when Ryanair built its stake? And who 
wants to be Mr O'Leary's Divestiture Trustee, given his view of external advisers: "I would shoot any consultant who 
came through my door!"
matthew.vincent@ft.com 
Load-Date: June 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair told: cut Aer Lingus stake
Ryanair told: cut Aer Lingus stake
City A.M.
June 12, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 187 words
Byline: CHARLOTTE HENRY
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair slammed the competition watchdog yesterday, as it may be forced reduce its share 
holding in Aer Lingus.
The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), in a final ruling on the case published yesterday, told Ryanair to cut 
its 30 per cent stake in the Irish flag carrier.
The CMA ruled that it was not good for competition when one airline could decide if a bid for its major competitor 
succeeded or failed.
"We need to ensure that, whatever happens in relation to this particular transaction, Ryanair's ability to hold sway 
over Aer Lingus is removed," the watchdog said.
Ryanair fears this would make it easier for British Airways-owner International Airlines Group (IAG) to stage a 
takeover.
Ryanair has been trying to improve its public standing in recent times, projecting a softer image, but was typically 
forthright in its response today. It called the CMA's ruling "ridiculous" in a market statement.
Robin Kiely of Ryanair said: " The recent offers by IAG for Aer Lingus totally disprove and undermine the bogus 
theories and invented evidence on which the CMA based its untenable divestment ruling."
Graphic
Ryanair told: cut Aer Lingus stake
 
Ryanair, run by Michael O'Leary, has slammed a move to force it to sell its Aer Lingus stake
Load-Date: June 12, 2015
End of Document
UK rules Ryanair must dump shares in Irish rival Aer Lingus
UK rules Ryanair must dump shares in Irish rival Aer Lingus
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 11, 2015 Thursday 12:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 453 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Ryanair must sell most of its shares in Irish rival Aer Lingus, Britain's competition authority ruled 
Thursday, but Europe's dominant budget airline has rejected the ruling and vowed to appeal.
The U.K. Competition and Markets Authority upheld its own April judgment that Ryanair's nearly 30 percent stake in 
its main Dublin-based competitor restricted Aer Lingus' ability to take decisions. Ryanair became Aer Lingus' largest 
shareholder as part of three hostile takeover bids following the 2006 privatization of the former state airline.
In Thursday's judgment the lead investigator, Simon Polito, said the recent friendly takeover bid for Aer Lingus by 
British Airways parent company IAG demonstrates Ryanair's inappropriate influence over Aer Lingus - because IAG 
won't complete its offer unless Ryanair accepts it.
The ruling said Ryanair must reduce its holding to no more than 5 percent.
While IAG's takeover offer has won support from Aer Lingus' own management and the Irish government, which still 
holds a 25 percent stake, IAG said the deal won't happen unless Ryanair also agrees to sell at a price that values 
Aer Lingus at 1.4 billion euros ($1.6 billion).
Polito said regardless of whether IAG's bid is successful, British regulators needed "to ensure that ... Ryanair's 
ability to hold sway over Aer Lingus is removed."
Ryanair, whose own efforts to acquire Aer Lingus were blocked by the government and both British and European 
regulators, has declined to say whether it will sell to IAG. Analysts speculate that Ryanair eventually will do a deal 
with IAG but could play hardball in hopes of winning a more lucrative payout. However, Ryanair is also Europe's 
most profitable airline and could easily absorb any potential losses from a waiting game it has already played for 
nearly nine years.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said his airline would appeal the judgment and other British findings 
simultaneously to Britain's Competition Appeals Tribunal and to the Supreme Court in London. It lost a similar 
action in February before Britain's Court of Appeal.
UK rules Ryanair must dump shares in Irish rival Aer Lingus
O'Leary said the IAG bid has blown the British regulator's original case "out of the water." He noted IAG needed 
more than 50 percent of shares to win control, not 70 percent. That means, he said, that a rival takeover bid that 
British regulators "contended 'could not take place' is now in fact taking place."
Ryanair has questioned why British regulators should play any role in mediating the affairs of two Irish-based 
airlines. The U.K. authority says Ireland produces Britain's busiest short-haul routes, and Ryanair and Aer Lingus 
are the two main operators.
___
Online: British investigation documents, http://bit.ly/1MKy2zw
Load-Date: June 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to appeal UK's competition watchdog ruling Ryanair to appe...
Ryanair to appeal UK's competition watchdog ruling; Ryanair to appe...
Business World (Digest)
June 11, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 314 words
Highlight: Ryanair has today claimed it will appeal CMA's "ridiculous" ruling.
Body
Ryanair has today claimed it will appeal CMA's "ridiculous" ruling.
They were referring to the final order issued by the UK's competition watchdog for Ryanair to dispose of the bulk of 
its 29.8% stake in Aer Lingus. The Competition and Markets Authority said Ryanair's shareholding in Aer Lingus 
distorts competition on routes between Ireland and the UK.
The CMA said in a statement that IAG's bid for Aer Lingus was an important part of the decision to require Ryanair 
to reduce its shareholding.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "Today's CMA decision rejecting Ryanair's request to review its order to divest Ryanair's 
29.8% minority stake in Aer Lingus is manifestly wrong and flies in the face of the current IAG offer for Aer Lingus. 
When the only basis for the CMA's original divestment ruling was that Ryanair's minority shareholding was or would 
prevent other airlines making an offer for Aer Lingus, the recent offers by IAG for Aer Lingus totally disprove and 
undermine the bogus theories and invented evidence on which the CMA based its untenable divestment ruling. 
Simon Polito and his group were unable to establish any consumer harm arising from Ryanair's minority stake in 
Aer Lingus and instead resorted to speculating (in the CMA's August 2013 report) that Ryanair's 29.8% 
shareholding would deter other airlines from merging with or bidding for Aer Lingus. IAG's current offer for Aer 
Lingus proves that the the CMA's invented theory of harm was hopelessly wrong, and is now unsustainable given 
that the circumstances have manifestly changed, and accordingly the divestment remedy must be revoked in light 
of this compelling evidence. Ryanair has instructed its lawyers to appeal today's ridiculous decision to the 
Competition Appeal Tribunal, given that it is factually unsustainable and legally flawed as the IAG offer for Aer 
Lingus proceeds." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 16, 2015
Ryanair to appeal UK's competition watchdog ruling Ryanair to appe...
End of Document
Ryanair told to cut Aer Lingus stake by competition watchdog Ryanair told to...
Ryanair told to cut Aer Lingus stake by competition watchdog; Ryanair told 
to...
Business World (Digest)
June 11, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 319 words
Highlight: Britain's competition watchdog has told Ryanair in a final ruling to cut its 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus, 
potentially making it easier for British Airways-owner IAG to take over the airline.
Body
Britain's competition watchdog has told Ryanair in a final ruling to cut its 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus, potentially 
making it easier for British Airways-owner IAG to take over the airline.
But Ryanair said it would fight the "nonsense" ruling in court, a process chief executive Michael O'Leary said could 
delay a forced divestment by at least 6-12 months.
IAG has made a 1.36 billion euro bid for Aer Lingus, but the deal is conditional upon winning support from Ryanair.
Britain's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said on Thursday it was not good for competition when one 
airline could decide if a bid for its major competitor succeeded or failed. "We need to ensure that, whatever 
happens in relation to this particular transaction, Ryanair's ability to hold sway over Aer Lingus is removed," the 
watchdog said in its final ruling on the issue. But O'Leary said there was nothing to stop IAG buying the other 70 
percent of Aer Lingus and pointed out that IAG owned 45 percent of low-cost carrier Vueling from 2011 to 2013. "I 
don't think IAG would be in the least bit bothered by having us on the share register," O'Leary told Reuters in a 
telephone interview. Ryanair lawyers are to appeal Thursday's decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal, he 
said. The CMA had said in April in a provisional ruling that Ryanair remained a major hurdle to any merger after 
Ryanair had asked it to reconsider an original 2013 ruling that it must cut its Aer Lingus stake to below 5 percent. 
Ireland has already said it will sell its 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus to IAG. Ryanair has said it would consider the 
bid once it had received the formal offer document. The budget airline has made a series of legal challenges to the 
British competition watchdog order to reduce its Aer Lingus shareholding to 5 percent or less and is also planning to 
appeal to Britain's Supreme Court.(Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair told to cut Aer Lingus stake by competition watchdog Ryanair told to...
Load-Date: June 16, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Calls On CMA Chairman To Correct His False Claims - Quick Facts
Ryanair Calls On CMA Chairman To Correct His False Claims - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
June 11, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 155 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc. (RYA.L,RYAAY) called on Simon Polito, the Chairman of 
the CMA, to correct his false and misleading claims in today's statement that "IAG's bid for Aer Lingus is dependent 
on securing Ryanair's agreement to sell its shareholding. This recent development illustrates that Ryanair can 
decide on whether a bid for its major competitor on UK/Irish routes succeeds or fails".
Ryanair stated that IAG's offer for Aer Lingus has already received public acceptances from both the Irish 
Government and Etihad who between them own approx. 30% of Aer Lingus. If the IAG offer gets to 50.1%, it is 
clear that there is nothing Ryanair can do to prevent IAG acquiring control of Aer Lingus. No 30% shareholder can 
block a takeover bid if more than 50% of other shareholders accept it.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings annual profit increases
Ryanair Holdings annual profit increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 11, 2015 Thursday 6:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 141 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings plc has reported that profit attributable to equity holders of the parent for the year 
ended March 31, 2015 was E866.7 million, or 62.46 cents per diluted share, compared to E522.8 million, or 36.86 
cents per diluted share, for the year ended March 31, 2014.
Body
Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the year ended March 31, 2015 were E5.65 billion, 
compared to E5.04 billion for the year ended March 31, 2014. Operating profit from continuing operations for the 
year ended March 31, 2015 was E1.04 billion, compared to E658.6 million for the year ended March 31, 2014. Profit 
before tax for the year ended March 31, 2015 was E982.4 million, compared to E591.4 million for the year ended 
March 31, 2014. Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary, said: "We are pleased to celebrate Ryanair's 30th Birthday by 
reporting this 66% increase in net profit which demonstrates the enduring strength of Ryanair's lowest fare/lowest 
cost model which has been transformed by the success of our "Always Getting Better" (AGB) customer experience 
programme. AGB has attracted millions of new customers to Ryanair."
Load-Date: June 17, 2015
End of Document
Carry-on allowances to shrink IN BRIEF
Carry-on allowances to shrink; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
June 11, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 76 words
Body
? Airline group IATA set guidelines to shrink carry-on rules so that no extra baggage need to go into the hold. 
Emirates, Lufthansa and Air China are among the first airlines to sign up to the guidelines, which at 55 x 35 x 20cm 
are less generous than Ryanair and far smaller than British Airways or Easyjet's allowances. IATA said it will mean 
"theoretically everyone should have a chance to store their carry-on bags on board aircraft of 120 seats or larger."
Load-Date: June 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to increase flights on Liverpool to Dublin service in winter 2015
Ryanair to increase flights on Liverpool to Dublin service in winter 2015
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 9, 2015 Tuesday 3:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 135 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will increase flights on its Liverpool to Dublin service from three to 
four times daily in winter 2015.
Body
UK business customers can enjoy allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, an improved 
website and app with mobile boarding passes, while also availing of our Family Extra and Business Plus services, 
making Ryanair the ideal choice for business travellers. Ryanair's Head of Communications Robin Kiely said: "UK 
customers and visitors already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route 
choice. Now they can also book their winter flights even earlier on our improved website and mobile app, carry a 
free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use 
their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just 
the lowest fares."
Load-Date: June 15, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to increase flights on Manchester to Dublin service in winter 2015
Ryanair to increase flights on Manchester to Dublin service in winter 2015
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 9, 2015 Tuesday 3:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 135 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will increase flights on its Manchester to Dublin service from five 
to six times daily in winter 2015.
Body
UK business customers can enjoy allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, an improved 
website and app with mobile boarding passes, while also availing of our Family Extra and Business Plus services, 
making Ryanair the ideal choice for business travellers. Ryanair's Head of Communications Robin Kiely said: "UK 
customers and visitors already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route 
choice. Now they can also book their winter flights even earlier on our improved website and mobile app, carry a 
free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use 
their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just 
the lowest fares."
Load-Date: June 15, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair releases new upgrade to Ryanair mobile app
Ryanair releases new upgrade to Ryanair mobile app
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 9, 2015 Tuesday 3:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 190 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has released the new upgrade to the Ryanair mobile app, featuring an enhanced My 
Ryanair customer registration function.
Body
Using the "My Ryanair" mobile feature, customers can use their own personal profile to ensure swifter bookings and 
flight check-ins. Ryanair's mobile app allows users to: log in via the "My Ryanair" feature; search Ryanair's 1,600 
low fare routes; choose & book fares & allocated seats; book hotels & car hire; and check-in & download mobile 
boarding passes. Available in both IOS and Android format, the Ryanair app has been downloaded over 6m times. 
Further additions to the "My Ryanair" customer registration service will be added later this year, which will allow 
users to add family members to their profile, as Ryanair continues to improve its digital offering under year 2 of its 
"Always Getting Better" programme. Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said: "We are pleased to launch this enhanced "My 
Ryanair" customer registration feature to our mobile app. We are continually improving our mobile offer for 
customers to make it easier and faster for them to find, book and manage their flights using mobile. The "My 
Ryanair" feature will be enhanced throughout the year, with more digital upgrades and features for both mobile and 
desktop to come."
Load-Date: June 15, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
June 7, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 543 words
Body
**Loan extension for Aminex**
Oil and gas company Aminex has negotiated a six-month extension of its $7.6 million corporate loan facility until 
January 31 to allow it to complete ongoing repayment and refinancing discussions.
The exploration group said it is currently in discussions with a    substantial financial group   which has indicated a 
willingness in principle to make loan finance available to the company. This would allow Aminex to pay down its 
existing loans and to continue to develop its Tanzanian licences.
The company expects to produce first gas from its Kiliwani North field in Tanzania in mid-2015.
..............................
**Profits jump at First Derivatives**
Financial technology company First Derivatives has reported a 120 per cent increase in its pre-tax profits for the 
year to the end of February.
The latest results from the Newry-based firm reveal that its revenues increased by 19 per cent to £83.2 million, 
while pre-tax profits jumped to £17.5 million.
The company's chairman Seamus Keating said another year of strong growth is expected.    We will continue to 
invest to maximise the growth potential of the business and view the future with confidence,   he said.
Keating said that the current financial year had    started positively, with good growth in consultancy and a number 
of contract wins in software  .
   The group expects performance to be moderately ahead of current market forecasts,   he said.
Boardroom Briefing
..............................
**Teeling: Connemara Mining 'financially secure'**
Irish exploration firm Connemara Mining has reported that its losses in 2014 narrowed. The company reported a 
pre-tax loss of EUR 308,292 for 2014, compared to a loss of EUR 348,199 for 2013.
In a statement, Connemara Mining's chairman John Teeling said that despite an    appalling   stock market 
environment for exploration firms, the company had been active with a number of joint ventures.
Teeling said the company is    financially secure   and that funds raised in 2014 are adequate for its current plans 
and operations.    We have weathered many storms in the past few years. The cycle turns. We are well-positioned,   
he said.
..............................
**Traffic boost for Ryanair**
Ryanair traffic grew by 16 per cent to 9.5 million customers in May, according to the latest monthly traffic statistics 
from the airline.
The news comes a week after the airline reported full year net profit of EUR 867 million, up 66 per cent on its last 
fiscal year. The latest monthly figures also show that the airline's load factor - the number of seats it fills on flights - 
rose 7 per cent to 92 per cent. Rolling annual traffic to May was up 13 per cent to 93.1 million customers, according 
to a statement from the airline.
..............................
**Another acquisition for Hibernia Reit**
Property investment company Hibernia Reit has exchanged contracts to acquire Dundrum View, an 80 unit 
apartment complex in south Dublin, in a EUR 28.05 million off-market deal.
The complex, which comprises two apartment blocks with a total of 22 one-bed units, 44 two-bed units, 14 three-
bed units and 114 parking spaces, is fully let, generating net annual rent of EUR 1.36 million and a net initial yield of 
4.7 per cent, according to a statement.
Load-Date: June 8, 2015
End of Document
Michael Murray: No Bord Fáilte budget could have matched the value of the international TV coverage of the 
marriage equality referendum
Michael Murray: No Bord Fáilte budget could have matched the value of the 
international TV coverage of the marriage equality referendum
Sunday Business Post
June 7, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1297 words
Body
Investors should be alert to some business opportunities that will arise for a small number of Irish plcs to capitalise 
on the outcome of the recent marriage equality referendum. It is not a material opportunity for most Irish plcs. But it 
is a real one for a few and carefully chosen stock market exposure can be obtained to capitalise on the opportunity 
with a little research.
The extensive coverage of the outcome of the marriage equality referendum on the world's TV screens certainly 
boosted 'Brand Ireland' by further transforming the country's image from a once backward, oppressed church-
dominated society to one that had become welcoming, open, happy and liberal. As the count and televised 
celebrations progressed it must have become obvious to the world that Ireland had changed.
No Bord Fáilte budget could have matched the value of the international TV coverage, splendidly displayed by huge 
rainbow flags across our capital city, thousands of supporters filling the square in Dublin Castle, and film clips of 
young Irish emigrants who had come back through the airports and the ferry ports to vote.
Businesses in the travel, leisure and hospitality sectors now have an opportunity to capitalise on the transformed 
perception of Ireland overseas as a place where the gay community from the US, Britain and Europe can come and 
be made feel as welcome as anybody else.
While the business gains might be marginal in most instances, the reality is that for some capital intensive 
businesses with high fixed operating costs, marginal incremental revenue streams from new market niches can 
have a significant multiplier effect on earnings per share. The airline industry is one example of that. The hotel 
industry is another. Both of those sectors are the most obvious prospective beneficiaries from the marginal extra 
revenue stream opportunities that a well executed, carefully segmented marketing strategy can deliver.
Michael Murray: No Bord Fáilte budget could have matched the value of the international TV coverage of the 
marriage equality referendum
So which Irish stock market companies fall into this category and are capable of capitalising on the opportunity in a 
way that could make a material difference to their earnings per share?
Not many, but there are a few. For some it would be very marginal indeed, but for one or two, it could be more 
material with a careful market segmentation strategy. There are five Iseq-listed companies geared to a greater or 
lesser extent to the travel and hospitality sector - Aer Lingus, Ryanair, ferry group ICG, drinks group C&C, and hotel 
group Dalata. However, for some, the exposure to Ireland is more diluted than for others and so the extent to which 
investors in each can capitalise on the opportunities presented varies greatly. In the case of Aer Lingus it will be 
very marginal given that it now looks set to become part of the IAG Group and last year had operating profits of only 
5 per cent of those of IAG.
So shareholders taking a stake in Aer Lingus via IAG will have a very much more diluted stake in 'Ireland Inc' and 
its tourism sector than they would have had if Aer Lingus remained in a stand-alone situation.
C&C's exposure to the Irish tourism industry has also been diluted by significant overseas expansion in recent 
years and marginal revenue gains have a less meaningful bottom line impact than they do in a high fixed cost 
industry such as an airline or hotel group.
So we are left with two obvious candidates: Ryanair, the star of pan-European airlines, which feeds tourists into 
Ireland from 20 countries and from 40 to 50 airports across Europe.
The other with potential for more marginal gains is Irish Continental Group - which got some publicity at the time of 
the referendum because of an organised campaign by young Irish emigrants in Britain to    take the boat to vote  .
But for earnings growth the hotel industry has the capacity to segment its market in many different ways to capture 
different customer segments through different seasons, special weekends, festive occasions, business occasions, 
conferencing and so forth.
It is an industry with high fixed costs, so careful market segmentation to sweat its fixed assets by pushing up room 
occupancy rates through all seasons and seven days of the week is the vital driver for materially increased net 
earnings generation.
Because the industry's fixed overhead base is high, the multiplier effect of even small incremental revenue streams 
can be significant - and key to adequate and improved profitability and return on capital employed.
But marketing approaches that boost one market segment at the expense of an equally or more lucrative one are 
worse than useless. Gross margins from room occupancy are high and are vital for recovering the high fixed 
overhead inherent in any hotel business. But if occupancy rates can be boosted from two or three new market 
segmented events each year - involving, for example, some special weekend same-sex wedding package 
promotions - that would boost overall room occupancy rates without impinging on the weekday business market or 
the overall brand equity, and thereby boost annual room occupancy revenues by 2-3 per cent. Then, other things 
being equal, earnings per share should be boosted by many multiples of the increased revenue stream because of 
the multiplier effect on fixed cost recovery. Ancillary revenues also get a boost, as marginal disposable income 
among the gay community tends to be higher than that for the rest of the population.
So disciplined market segmentation provides parts of the hospitality sector with the opportunity to leverage on the 
brand equity now being built up of a welcoming, liberal, inclusive Ireland sitting side by side with the many 
traditional architectural, cultural, scenic and sporting attractions that the country has always had.
There is, however, only one hotel group listed on the Irish stock market - Dalata. It looks better placed than any of 
the other quoted Irish companies to benefit as its exposure to the Irish market is less diluted than that of other travel 
and leisure companies so listed. Fortunately, its management's track record in market segmentation has always 
been good, and as a group whose three and four-star hotels are geared during the week to business clients and at 
weekends to leisure, a strategy that capitalises on the weekend and tourism opportunities presented by same-sex 
Michael Murray: No Bord Fáilte budget could have matched the value of the international TV coverage of the 
marriage equality referendum
couples - and who are now much more likely to be attracted to touring and marrying here without facing 
homophobic prejudice - should be well within its capacity.
Dalata's gearing, capital intensity, and fixed overhead base is high, and hence the multiplier effect of small upward 
shifts in revenue for post tax earnings per share and return on capital employed can be significant. Tactically clever 
market segmentation is vital, however, to avoid one market segment being captured at the expense of another - 
perhaps an equally or more lucrative one.
In this, Dalata is well served by its experienced management team but also by its relatively flexible, diversified 
portfolio of three and four-star hotels in Ireland's four main cities, as well as its segmented customer base of 
business travellers during the week and tourists at weekends. Special weekends allocated for same-sex weddings 
or Gay Pride Week offerings are obvious examples of sensible segmented promotions targeted in specialist 
publications to avoid diluting or confusing the brand identity among other customer segments.
Dalata has a strong management team, but its aggressive acquisition programme over the past 18 months has 
raised its financial leverage. Hence the challenges and importance of maximising asset utilisation to facilitate a 
lightening of the debt burden. In those circumstances it is all the more important that the company takes every 
opportunity for revenue maximisation. A new opportunity has now opened up.
Load-Date: June 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to increase flights on Birmingham to Dublin service
Ryanair to increase flights on Birmingham to Dublin service
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 5, 2015 Friday 7:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 165 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will increase flights on its Birmingham to Dublin service from four 
to six times daily.
Body
UK business customers can enjoy allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, an improved 
website and app with mobile boarding passes, while also availing of our Family Extra and Business Plus services, 
making Ryanair the ideal choice for business travellers. Ryanair's Head of Communications Robin Kiely said: 
"Ryanair is pleased to announce extra flights from Birmingham to Dublin, offering customers the largest range of 
business routes at the lowest fares and convenient business timings. "UK customers and visitors already choose 
Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. Now they can also book their 
winter flights even earlier on our improved website and mobile app, carry a free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy 
allocated seats, avail of our Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their personal electronic devices at 
all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: June 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to increase flights on Edinburgh to London service
Ryanair to increase flights on Edinburgh to London service
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 5, 2015 Friday 7:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 193 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will increase flights on its Edinburgh to London service from four 
to five times daily as part of its expanded winter 2015 schedule.
Body
Ryanair's Edinburgh winter 2015 schedule will deliver: 2 new routes to Frankfurt Hahn and Santander; 18 routes in 
total; more flights on 5 routes: Alicante, Krakow, London Stansted, Malaga & Tenerife; 2m customers p.a.; and 
2,000"on-site"jobs p.a. Scottish customers and visitors can now choose 18 routes to/from Edinburgh next winter, 
while enjoying allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with 
mobile boarding passes, and Ryanair's Family Extra and Business Plus services, making Ryanair the ideal choice 
for families, business and leisure travellers. Ryanair's Head of Communications, Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair will 
continue to connect Edinburgh with Europe's key centres of business, with more flights and improved schedules to 
and from major cities including Brussels, Dublin, and Rome, making Ryanair the ideal choice for business 
customers, and reaffirming Edinburgh as a gateway to Europe. "To celebrate the launch of our extended Edinburgh 
to London service, we are releasing 100,000 seats on sale from GBP19.99 for travel in June, which are available for 
booking until midnight Monday (25 May)."
Load-Date: June 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair sees the benefit of customer-friendly approach
Ryanair sees the benefit of customer-friendly approach
City A.M.
June 3, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 368 words
Byline: STEPHAN SHAKESPEARE
Body
THIS week, I have considered the case of budget airline Ryanair. How is it that this once muchmaligned brand has 
managed to post a leap in profits of 66 per cent to £623m, accompanied by a rise in share price of 5.4 per cent? 
The answer, one suspects, is in a concerted change of approach. Put simply, Ryanair have tried to be friendlier, 
softer, more helpful and less stringent. Essentially, a more caring strategy has been the company's edict.
In reality, Ryanair has achieved this through the implementation of several measures, such as allowing flyers to 
bring a second bag on board, less castigatory punishments for slight rule breaches and a far simpler booking 
process are all examples of the approach.
What's more, a broad-based marketing campaign that carries both greater sophistication and a clearer message 
has been launched, helping the brand look more professional in the eyes of potential customers.
YouGov BrandIndex data underlines the improvements that have been made, as well as the effect that the good 
financial news is having on consumer perception.
Its Buzz Rating metric has risen since the results were released, and by five percentage points since March. More 
generally, its score has increased by nine per cent in the last year, the highest among any airline company.
Ryanair has, of course, always positioned itself as the low-cost airline. But our data suggests that an increasing 
number of people believe that the service offers value for money. In turn, the score that the company has achieved 
in the last two weeks is the highest it has shown all year.
Ryanair sees the benefit of customer-friendly approach
Naturally, Ryanair wants this improved perception to lead to higher numbers on its flights. Our Consideration Metric 
indicates that this is becoming a reality. Over the last month, this rating has also been at its highest level so far this 
year.
But there is always room for improvement. Customers still do not like having to pay to print out boarding passes, for 
example, and hidden costs are one accusation that Ryanair has had to field. The overriding sense, though, is of a 
brand at the start of successfully changing its image and matching it with eye-catching financial results.
Stephan Shakespeare is chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: June 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair sees the benefit of customer-friendly approach
Ryanair sees the benefit of customer-friendly approach
City A.M.
June 3, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 368 words
Byline: STEPHAN SHAKESPEARE
Body
THIS week, I have considered the case of budget airline Ryanair. How is it that this once muchmaligned brand has 
managed to post a leap in profits of 66 per cent to £623m, accompanied by a rise in share price of 5.4 per cent? 
The answer, one suspects, is in a concerted change of approach. Put simply, Ryanair have tried to be friendlier, 
softer, more helpful and less stringent. Essentially, a more caring strategy has been the company's edict.
In reality, Ryanair has achieved this through the implementation of several measures, such as allowing flyers to 
bring a second bag on board, less castigatory punishments for slight rule breaches and a far simpler booking 
process are all examples of the approach.
What's more, a broad-based marketing campaign that carries both greater sophistication and a clearer message 
has been launched, helping the brand look more professional in the eyes of potential customers.
YouGov BrandIndex data underlines the improvements that have been made, as well as the effect that the good 
financial news is having on consumer perception.
Its Buzz Rating metric has risen since the results were released, and by five percentage points since March. More 
generally, its score has increased by nine per cent in the last year, the highest among any airline company.
Ryanair has, of course, always positioned itself as the low-cost airline. But our data suggests that an increasing 
number of people believe that the service offers value for money. In turn, the score that the company has achieved 
in the last two weeks is the highest it has shown all year.
Ryanair sees the benefit of customer-friendly approach
Naturally, Ryanair wants this improved perception to lead to higher numbers on its flights. Our Consideration Metric 
indicates that this is becoming a reality. Over the last month, this rating has also been at its highest level so far this 
year.
But there is always room for improvement. Customers still do not like having to pay to print out boarding passes, for 
example, and hidden costs are one accusation that Ryanair has had to field. The overriding sense, though, is of a 
brand at the start of successfully changing its image and matching it with eye-catching financial results.
Stephan Shakespeare is chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: June 4, 2015
End of Document
The misplaced hero worship of start-up founders
The misplaced hero worship of start-up founders
Financial Times (London, England)
June 3, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: ENTREPRENEURSHIP; Pg. 12
Length: 752 words
Byline: Giles Wilkes
Body
President George W Bush was once believed to have said that the French lack a word for "entrepreneur". What a 
pity this is a myth , for in one anecdote it skewered two typically Anglo-Saxon shortcomings - a refusal to master 
any tongue beyond English, and unthinking infatuation with entrepreneurship.
It is one based on a hazy grasp of its subject. As explained by The Finance Foundation think-tank, "there are 
numerous, often misleading, definitions of what an entrepreneur actually is". These lead to misconceptions and 
misguided political interventions.
The original French word suggests "a go-between" - like Shakespeare's merchant of Venice, a man with "an argosy 
bound to Tripoli, another to the Indies . . . a third at Mexico, a fourth for England". To buy where goods are cheap 
and sell where they are dear is the essence of entrepreneurship. This allows different places to specialise in what 
they do best, to the benefit of all.
The modern definition is instead someone "who organises, manages and assumes the risks of a business". Those 
who launch start-ups are most lauded of all. Following the economist Joseph Schumpeter , these heroes 
revolutionise the economy, reorganising industries and finding new ways of doing old things. Their activities are vital 
for job creation, technological breakthrough and dissolution of stale monopolies. Little wonder the praise they 
receive - and the taxpayer cash showered over start-ups and small enterprise.
The misplaced hero worship of start-up founders
Not all the praise is misdirected. Places where it is hard to create a business often stagnate. Many of the greatest 
companies of recent times started small and grew within a generation to multinational glory, disrupting older 
industries: think of Google, Amazon, Facebook or Apple.
But misconceptions abound. One of the more stubborn is the linkage between small business and job creation. As 
Paul Nightingale and Alex Coad have argued in their masterly takedown of entrepreneurial myths, "Muppets and 
Gazelles", such boasts are plagued with poor data and survivorship bias. Companies that die quickly produce less 
information than those that survive and thrive. The jobs credited to small outfits are sometimes found to have been 
created in plants owned by larger companies.
Another persistent myth is the link between new companies and productivity. In theory, start-ups arise to exploit a 
better way of operating that is currently ignored or suppressed by established businesses. But the likes of Amazon 
or Ryanair are the exceptions that prove the rule - that small and new companies are in aggregate less productive. 
This should not be surprising: companies often exist to embody advantages of scale, including "learning 
economies" that accumulate through time. Too much entry and exit into a market can add up to a lot of wasted 
effort and capital.
Such observations lead to a recent theme: the dismal performance of UK productivity , despite startlingly strong 
business creation. Steven Toft , better known to his fans as Flip Chart Rick, blogs extensively on the topic, and 
draws attention to a Nesta study that credits existing  companies with generating 90 per cent of Britain's pre-crisis 
productivity growth. A high level of start-up activity may be best explained by managers finding it a useful way to 
employ cheap but unproductive labour. Worse, a report by the Social Market Foundation found Britain suffers from 
a dearth of "high-value entrepreneurs" - those likely to hire many more staff. Far from incubating a budding Steve 
Jobs or Sam Walton, many new businesses are providing work only for the owner.
None of this argues for ignoring small business. Policy makers should strive to "think small first"; larger outfits can 
manage regulation that ties smaller companies in knots. But rules designed to favour the small also run the risk of 
persuading businesses to remain that way. Exemptions granted to French companies with fewer than 50 staff 
explained how France accumulated so many with 49 .
Small business is a dream political constituency: numerous, dispersed, and publicly associated with virtues of 
homeliness, thrift and endeavour. As ever the truth is messier.
Entrepreneurs who can transform the economy are found in companies of any size. The country with the lowest 
proportion of its workforce in companies with fewer than 50 staff is the US. At the other end of the scale is Greece, 
then Italy, Portugal and Spain.
The author is an FT leader writer. This column appeared first in the FT's Free Lunch email briefing: ft.com/freelunch
Load-Date: June 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair posts strong results for May Ryanair posts s...
Ryanair posts strong results for May; Ryanair posts s...
Business World (Digest)
June 3, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 168 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today released their results for May which show that traffic grew 16% to 9.5m customers 
and their load factor rose 7% points to 92%.
Body
Ryanair have today released their results for May which show that traffic grew 16% to 9.5m customers and their 
load factor rose 7% points to 92%.
Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair's May traffic grew by 16% to 9.5m customers, while 
our load factor jumped by 7% points to 92%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme, which continues 
to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded summer schedule.
Alongside our new routes, increased frequencies, Business Plus and Family Extra services, Ryanair customers can 
now look forward to further service enhancements, as we roll out Year 2 of our AGB programme in 2015, which 
includes a new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms, improved inflight menus, reduced fees, 
and great new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and price comparison services."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair May Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
Ryanair May Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
June 3, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 135 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc. (RYA.L,RYAAY) said that its traffic for the month of May 
2015 rose 16% to 9.5 million customers from 8.2 million customers in the same month of prior year.
Monthly load factor rose 7 percent to 92 percent from 85 percent last year.
Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair's May traffic grew by 16% to 9.5m customers, while 
our load factor jumped by 7% points to 92%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme, which continues 
to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded summer schedule.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: June 3, 2015
End of Document
New Malaysia Airlines chief warns that 'hard reset' is needed Travel & leisure
New Malaysia Airlines chief warns that 'hard reset' is needed; Travel & 
leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
June 2, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 18
Length: 477 words
Byline: Patrick McGee in Hong Kong and Andrew Parker in London
Highlight: Mueller says company is 'technically bankrupt' as 6,000 job cuts lined up
Body
Lossmaking Malaysia Airlines, reeling from two disasters last year, is aiming to reach break-even by 2018 through a 
restructuring involving 6,000 job losses, Christoph Mueller the flag carrier's new chief executive said yesterday.
Mr Mueller used his first press conference since becoming Malaysia Airlines' top manager in May to say that the 
company was "technically bankrupt" and needed a "hard reset".
Over the weekend, the 20,000-strong workforce received letters of redundancy from the existing company, called 
Malaysian Airline System Berhad, but "at least" 14,000 jobs are anticipated at the new Malaysia Airlines Berhad 
group that starts operating on September 1.
Employees' terms and conditions at the new group were not disclosed but under Mr Mueller's three-year turnround 
plan he is seeking a more efficient structure that reduces costs by 20 per cent.
Mr Mueller did not define his break-even target, but one person close to the company said the aim was to 
potentially generate an operating profit by 2018.
Last year Malaysia Airlines suffered the double blow of the disappearance in the Indian Ocean of one of its aircraft, 
MH370 , and the shooting down of another, MH17 , while flying over Ukraine.
New Malaysia Airlines chief warns that 'hard reset' is needed Travel & leisure
The airline, which traces its roots to the 1930s and has not made a profit since 2010, is struggling to compete with 
newer, lower cost rivals, such as Tony Fernandes' AirAsia. His airline also suffered disaster when an aircraft 
crashed into the Java Sea off Indonesia last year.
Against this bleak backdrop, Khazanah, Malaysia's sovereign wealth fund and the airline's largest shareholder, last 
year took the company private by buying out minority investors. It is recapitalising the airline by investing up to 
RM6bn ($1.6bn) on a phased basis.
Mr Mueller was previously chief executive of Aer Lingus, the Irish flag carrier that has improved its performance 
against lower cost rivals including Ryanair.
The turnround involves doing less flying in the short term, and therefore a reduction in Malaysia Airlines' fleet. It will 
focus on domestic and regional routes, and drop some lossmaking long-haul destinations.
In May it ceased flying to the US by dropping its service to Los Angeles. Malaysia Airlines will, however, continue 
flying to London.
The shake-up of the company's route network means it is looking to sell two of its six Airbus A380 superjumbos. To 
further reduce costs, Malaysia Airlines is planning to renegotiate key contracts, including those with airports.
The person close to the company said that he expected Mr Mueller to introduce a new trading name for Malaysia 
Airlines, although the chief executive declined to comment on this at the press conference. "He has to leave behind 
the baggage of the past," said this person.
If the turnround is successful, Malaysia Airlines could seek a new stock market listing before the end of the decade.
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
European Deal of the Year 2014
European Deal of the Year 2014
AirFinance Journal
June 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,IRELAND
Length: 359 words
Highlight: Ryanair's â,¬850 million unsecured Eurobond wins this year's award.
Body
One of the most talked about deals of the last year was Ryanair's record-breaking eurobond. The Irish carrier was 
originally exploring the possibility of issuing an enhanced equipment trust certificate (EETC), but realized it had 
potential to get a high credit rating. The bond issuance was the fruit of a successful corporate story and set a 
precedent within the bond market for aviation. 
The deal achieved the lowest coupon in the airline sector, the lowest coupon for an Irish corporate and the joint 
lowest coupon for any seven-year BBB+ eurobond.Neil Sorahan, chief financial officer, Ryanair, says: "The Ryanair 
debut eurobond was unique for a number of reasons. Firstly, it was unsecured, which is unusual in the airline 
industry. However, as the most highly rated airline in the world [BBB+ stable with both S&P and Fitch Ratings] 
Ryanair can access such markets. At the time of issuance, the bond was almost eight times oversubscribed and 
was [at that time] 1) the lowest eurobond coupon ever [1.875%] for an airline; 2) the lowest eurobond coupon ever 
for an Irish borrower and 3) the joint lowest coupon for a seven-year corporate eurobond rated BBB+."  There was a 
strong market appetite for the bond. Citigroup acted as ratings adviser and Citigroup, BNP Paribas and Deutsche 
acted as joint bookrunners. The Irish carrier's notes were significantly oversubscribed, attracting at least â,¬6 
billion-worth of bids for the bond, leading the airline to increase the size of the bond from more than â,¬500 million 
to â,¬850 million. Ryanair's debt roadshow involved it visiting eight cities in four days, meeting more than 100 
potential investors. "One of the challenges they had was a lack of comparable deals to benchmark us against and it 
was our job (and our advisers) to educate them on our business model and our strong credit rating," says Sorahan.
The deal priced at midswaps plus 85 basis points and carried a coupon of 1.875%. The bond is the first part of 
Ryanair's plans to access the debt capital markets to source low-cost financing for its 180 Boeing 737-800 NG 
order, which started delivering last September.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: June 29, 2015
End of Document
Malaysia Airlines hires "no fuss" Ryanair exec
Malaysia Airlines hires "no fuss" Ryanair exec
AirFinance Journal
June 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,LESSORS,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS,ASIA
Length: 132 words
Byline: Michael Allen
Highlight: Christoph Mueller recruits Irish airline's director of flight operations.
Body
Malaysia Airlines (MAS) has appointed Peter Bellow as its new chief operations officer.
Bellew will join MAS from Ryanair, where he was director of flight operations for up to 72 bases, operating a total of 
320 aircraft.
He was also previously head of sales and marketing and deputy director, flight operations.
On his LinkedIn profile, Bellew boasts: "I can simply get things done "" quickly and with no fuss."
His new position at MAS will be effective as of September 1 2015.
Last year, MAS hired former Aer Lingus CEO Christoph Mueller as its new CEO. Bellew will be working alongside 
Mueller during the struggling carrier's restructuring.
To see all ofMalaysia Airlines' recent and historic deals visit Airfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Michael.Allen@euromoneyplc.com
Photo: Flickr/Aero Icarus
Load-Date: July 6, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 647 words
Body
**AIB names new chief**
Bernard Byrne has been named as the new chief executive of AIB, with immediate effect.
Byrne will succeed David Duffy, who is leaving for Britain's Clydesdale Bank.
Byrne joined AIB in May 2010 as chief financial officer and has since held a number of roles, most recently as 
director of retail and business banking. The chartered accountant previously worked for PriceWaterhouseCoopers, 
ESB International, IWP International and ESB, where he was group finance director.
   Bernard is very well positioned to ensure that the momentum created by David Duffy and the senior management 
team is maintained,   AIB chairman Richard Pym said in a statement.
...................................
**Profits soar at Ryanair**
Ryanair has reported full year net profit of EUR 867 million, up by 66 per cent on its last fiscal year.
The airline said traffic was up 11 per cent to 90.6 million, generating revenue growth of 12 per cent.
Ryanair said it had expanded into primary airports, added more business schedules and extended long term cost 
growth deals at major bases including London and Dublin.
The company also reported higher load factors for the year - the number of seats it fills on its flights. Overall load 
factor increased from 83 per cent to 88 per cent in the year.
Forward bookings are four per cent ahead of last year on average and will likely lead to a further two per cent 
increase in load factor to 90 per cent, Ryanair said.
Boardroom Briefing
...................................
**Revenue up at Mincon**
Irish engineering group Mincon has reported a 40 per cent increase in revenues for the first quarter compared to the 
same three months last year.
In its interim management statement, Mincon said the first three months of the year was generally quieter in its key 
markets, mainly due to winter shutdowns in the northern hemisphere and summer holidays in the southern 
hemisphere.
Earlier this month, the company named Joe Purcell as its new chief executive with effect from May 28, taking over 
from Kevin Barry.
...................................
**Turnover jumps at Golden Discs**
The Golden Discs group has reported that turnover for the year to June 2014 was up by 43 per cent to EUR 12 
million on the back of new store openings.
Six new stores were opened during the financial year in Cork, Kildare, Swords, Blanchardstown and Stephen's 
Green in Dublin. A pop-up store was also opened on Grafton Street in Dublin for the Christmas trading period.
Golden Discs said its gross margin improved thanks to changes to its product mix and improvements to store 
layouts, but added that    one-off costs   associated with the new store openings lowered profitability.
Golden Discs, which is the only Irish-owned home entertainment chain, operates 15 stores nationwide. It said it was 
considering adding more over the coming months.
...................................
**New boss at Circle Oil**
Exploration group Circle Oil has announced the appointment of Mitchell Robert Flegg as chief executive with effect 
from June 1.
Flegg, who has more than 30 years of experience in the industry, joins from Serica Energy where he has been chief 
operating officer since 2011. He has also worked for Schlumberger, Enterprise Oil and Shell, Circle said.
...................................
**The week ahead**
The Irish Stock Exchange will be closed tomorrow for the June bank holiday.
Financial technology company First Derivatives will report its full year results on Tuesday. Earlier this year, the 
company announced a deal to buy the Dublin-based software firm ActivateClients in a EUR 4.75 million deal.
Baked goods group Aryzta, which owns the Cuisine de France brand, will publish a trading statement on Tuesday. 
In April, the company surprised analysts and investors with its acquisition of a 49 per cent stake in French food 
retailer Picard from private equity firm Lion Capital in a EUR 447 million deal.
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
Boardroom Briefing
End of Document
Aer Lingus takeover: Aer Lingus can really take off with takeover
Aer Lingus takeover: Aer Lingus can really take off with takeover
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 961 words
Body
Listening to the debate on Aer Lingus last week was like being propelled backwards to the 1970s when every 
country had to own an airline. The airline business, like almost every industry, has changed profoundly since then, 
yet the political language has hardly budged. Why do people think national when they are discussing the most 
international, by definition, of all industries? It seems like a national airline is an industrial fetish, a bit like the 
economic equivalent of Fifty Shades of Grey.
The plain vanilla commercial reality is that, unfortunately, it is not who owns them that determines whether they 
thrive or not, but how many choose to travel with them.
So the national interest is whether the airline has a solid future.
This seems so obvious but unfortunately many people continue to argue that    we need links to the outside world   
and therefore having a domestic, or at least part domestically-owned, national carrier, is essential. But consider the 
fact that Ireland became an exporting and trading phenomenon without a national shipping company, yet the vast 
majority of our trade goes by sea.
Many shipping companies use our ports. They are competitive, they do the job and do you have any idea what they 
are called? Do you care? The same goes for air transport. You don't need a government-controlled airline to be a 
normal country plugged into the world; nor do you need a government-controlled shipping company to be a trading 
economy.
Once we appreciate this fact, it's easier to see what is in the best interest of Aer Lingus, the company and its staff. 
The single best underwriter of Aer Lingus will be the number of passengers.
There are two big trends in the international airline business. The first is low cost in rich countries and the second is 
full service in growing parts of the world. In Europe, the low cost carriers are cleaning up.
Aer Lingus takeover: Aer Lingus can really take off with takeover
Even though people still think of Ryanair as the upstart and Aer Lingus as the incumbent, Ryanair will carry 90 
million passengers to Aer Lingus's nine million. The upstart is ten times bigger than the old hand.
Even BA, a company indelibly linked with British air travel, is only the third biggest carrier in Britain, behind Easyjet 
and Ryanair. In fact, Ryanair's ambition is to grow to 150 million passengers by 2020 and next year to knock 
Easyjet off its number one perch across the water. Ryanair is three times bigger than BA and 30 per cent bigger 
than German giant Lufthansa.
Ryanair has spawned copycat airlines such as Norwegian, Pegasus Airways, Wings and Wizz, all challenging 
conventional carriers. The future of mass-market air travel in Europe is low cost. And the trick the low-cost carriers 
stumbled upon is a bit of consumer psychology that we never thought about: people don't so much travel to 
destinations as travel at a price - and if you make the price low enough, people will take a chance.
Also cheaper fuel has enhanced the profitability of low-costs airlines over full-service ones. This is because the low 
cost can squeeze almost every cost bar fuel. Therefore, between 40 per cent and 45 per cent of a low-costs 
airline's cost is fuel, so if fuel costs collapse, profits shoot upwards. This makes low-cost carriers look like a better 
bet for fresh capital.
And remember the airline business is capital intensive because without new planes a company can't expand 
capacity.
The other big trend globally is Asian air travel. Orders of planes from China are still very strong. Typically, as a 
country gets richer, air travel grows two times as fast as GDP and this can be seen very clearly in global trends.
Twenty years ago, passengers were most likely to fly on an airline from Europe or North America. Over the next 20 
years (according to Boeing), 62 per cent of air traffic will be from outside North America and Europe. Emerging 
markets will grow faster than established markets.
Regions growing above trend are Asia Pacific (6.3 per cent), Middle East (6.4 per cent), and Latin America (6.2 per 
cent), while European (3.9 per cent) and North American markets (2.9 per cent) will be below trend.
So where does this leave Aer Lingus?
It doesn't want to be a Ryanair-lite and it can hardly have an Asian strategy. In addition, the airline industry is going 
through a massive growth spurt. So standing still is not an option.
Consider this global change. Today, there are nearly 21,000 jet airplanes commercially operated in the world. The 
world's largest fleets are in the United States, China, Russia, the United Kingdom and Germany. Over the next 20 
years, the world's fleet will grow at an average rate of 3.6per cent annually. This means that more than 36,700 new 
planes will be built.
Aer Lingus needs to get its hands on some of this new capacity. Firstly it needs the routes of another big partner to 
generate more business into Ireland and it needs the balance sheet of a bigger partner to expand.
Wouldn't a tie-up with a bigger player that could open up all sorts of American cities like Dallas, Miami, San Diego 
and Denver to Irish tourism make sense? They are well served by BA and Aer Lingus is going to piggyback on 
those networks.
Why would Aer Lingus seek a partnership with the likes of KLM or Lufthansa when BA is the obvious partner for Aer 
Lingus.
Don't get me wrong: I love flying Aer Lingus and I get a real feeling of coming home when I fly back to the country 
on Aer Lingus.
Aer Lingus takeover: Aer Lingus can really take off with takeover
For years, Aer Lingus was, in my head anyway, synonymous with home. It still is, but given what is happening to 
the global airline business, it is hard to see the future for the company without the significant balance sheet, access 
to cash and access to routes of another bigger carrier. That is just the way the airline business is going.
The best way to safeguard Aer Lingus was to sell it.
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Why IAG deal means Sla n to Aer Lingus
Why IAG deal means Sla n to Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 630 words
Body
All last week, various pundits on the airwaves have been telling us about the value and importance of brand Aer 
Lingus. However, too few of these commentators have any real expertise in branding.
We need to assess the Aer Lingus brand in the context in which it exists: international air travel. We can't think of it 
just in terms of Ireland. We all love to think on this little island that Aer Lingus is a world famous brand. In reality this 
is far from the truth. In the growing and developing markets of international air travel, Aer Lingus has little if any 
brand awareness. If we look at the BRIC markets (Brazil, Russia, India, China), with large populations and markets, 
this is particularly true. These are the markets where growth is going to come from, so why use a brand that nobody 
knows about like Aer Lingus? It just doesn't make sense.
I've always been a big admirer of the Aer Lingus brand, but the truth is that its awareness on a global scale is low.
Even Ryanair enjoys much greater awareness internationally. The easy thing to do would be to look at things 
through Shamrock-tinted glasses and tell ourselves that Aer Lingus is indeed a world famous brand, but it's not.
It may be quite well known on the east coast of America, parts of Britain and other locations where our loyal 
diaspora are scattered, but the fact is it's more like a global pub quiz question -    What is the name of the national 
airline of Ireland   - than it is a globally well-known brand. A bit like TAP of Portugal. Known by anoraks.
This global awareness issue has not been helped by the fact that for a long time now there has been little or no 
tangible investment in a coherent and engaging brand strategy for the airline. If you do not keep informing and 
engaging people and new markets about your brand, then how can you expect people to remember it and remark 
on it?
Aer Lingus has not been a remarkable brand for a long time now, even with its core markets of here, the US and 
Britain. During a time when its no-frills competitor, Ryanair, was passing it out by miles, Aer Lingus never really 
attempted to highlight the difference in customer care and service that it had against Ryanair. This was an 
opportunity badly missed as there was an underlying trust asset that Aer Lingus had against Ryanair. But for some 
Why IAG deal means Sla n to Aer Lingus
unknown reason they let it slip and then foolishly tried to go head to head with Ryanair on price. It was a big gaffe 
and they paid the price.
Aer Lingus never properly nor tangibly communicated that it was a caring and customer friendly airline where you 
and your family could be guaranteed an allocated seat number on each flight as opposed to the scrum for seats that 
used to exist on Ryanair. That was a glaring error, and the guardians of brand Aer Lingus past have a lot to answer 
for in this regard. In fact, it is ironic that Ryanair under Kenny Jacobs' stewardship is now trying to steal Aer Lingus's 
clothes in this regard. Can you believe it, Ryanair are coming over all caring and cuddly?
So we have a lovely old Irish brand that we all love and have a great sentimental attachment to, but that's all. Aer 
Lingus as a brand has been left behind, miles behind. Will IAG have that sentimental view of lovely old Aer Lingus? 
I very much doubt it. In fact, all the talk has been about the slots that IAG were buying from Aer Lingus, without a 
mention of the brand and its customers.
It is also very difficult for even an Irish adman like me to feel sorry for the plight of the Aer Lingus brand and to show 
some loyalty to it. After all, the Aer Lingus advertising account has been lost to Ireland and moved abroad. So 
Ireland has waved Sla n to the advertising account. How long before we say Sla n Aer Lingus?
*Gary Brown is chairman and founder of Target McConnells*
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus takeover: Paschal's wager
Aer Lingus takeover: Paschal's wager
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1814 words
Body
Paschal Donohoe was freezing. The Minister for Transport was watching his son's football match in Ballyboden St 
Enda's GAA grounds, where the wind sweeps down from the Dublin Mountains. It's cold in May; in January, the 
wind would cut through you.
It was a Saturday morning, but Donohoe wasn't surprised when his phone started to ring. Ministers' mobiles are 
never off. It was particularly busy this morning, though. The Financial Times was reporting that IAG, the 
international airline group headed by Irishman Willie Walsh, was preparing another bid for Aer Lingus. This time, the 
board of the Irish airline was going to recommend the offer. Donohoe knew what that meant. The ball was now in 
his court.
Aer Lingus has never been just a business story. There is a public attachment to the national airline that goes 
beyond merely using the service. People think about it in a way that they don't think about, say, Ryanair. There are 
also thousands of Aer Lingus and Dublin Airport workers and pensioners spread across north Dublin constituencies, 
which constitute a significant political lobby. They have cousins around Shannon and Cork airports. They vote, and 
sometimes they vote as a bloc. Aer Lingus has always been a political hot potato.
IAG had been circling Aer Lingus for months. Walsh, who had been chief executive of the airline, knew it inside out. 
He didn't just know the politics; he knew the culture.
   There is an Aer Lingus ecosystem. The support of the board and management was crucial, as they are incredibly 
ingrained with the unions and the tourism groups. Without their agreement, it's dead in the water,   said one person 
involved in the deal since the beginning.
Which meant that, for most of December and January, IAG was using its energy on getting the chairman of Aer 
Lingus, Colm Barrington, to recommend the offer. Because chief executive Christoph Mueller was leaving to join 
Malaysian Airlines, the chairman was crucial. Walsh knew it had to be a friendly bid, so getting the board to believe 
that it would be positive for investors and workers was imperative.
Aer Lingus takeover: Paschal's wager
After the first offer was knocked back, the killer price was delivered: EUR 2.50 per share, plus the EUR 0.05 
dividend Aer Lingus has planned to pay. IAG had done the one thing that Ryanair had failed to do in its three 
takeover attempts - namely, convince the board to recommend the bid.
**'Year one, not year five'**
At a political level, the initial reaction was nervous. The government had suffered a bruising 2014; starting off the 
new year by flogging off the national airline was not what many people in government had in mind to revive its 
political fortunes. The government rejected the offer. But, crucially, it held the door open, indicating that if IAG was 
prepared to come back with a better offer, it would consider it. It was a rejection, but a heavily qualified one. Walsh 
could see that the game was afoot, all right.
Donohoe was consulting widely, with his own officials and outside the department. He could see the potential 
political problems that a sale of Aer Lingus would cause to Labour especially, but also to a lot of Fine Gael TDs. 
The Fine Gael parliamentary party was    extremely nervous   about the situation, according to one attendee. 
Everyone figured that it was a    year one, not year five   project; that is, it's the sort of thing a government does in 
its first year, not in its last.
But the more Donohoe consulted and thought about it, the less straightforward it seemed. Crucially, he came to the 
conclusion that while there were political pitfalls in selling Aer Lingus, staying put wasn't a risk-free option either.
   The market consensus would develop pretty quickly: if we wouldn't sell to IAG, then we wouldn't sell to anyone,   
says a source on the government side. And if the government wouldn't sell to anyone, the share price would 
plummet. Pretty soon, Donohoe would have the Aer Lingus board telling him it needed to retrench, cutting jobs and 
cancelling routes.
There was another fear, too. IAG - or anyone else - could simply buy a majority of shares on the market, leaving the 
government with 25 per cent of the airline, and little else. No power, no leverage.
It was this realisation in government -    Doing nothing has consequences,   in the words of one source - that was 
the crucial turning point. The negotiations got serious.
**The pushback**
There was a serious pushback, though. At the Labour conference in Killarney at the end of February, a group of 
backbenchers pushed through a motion rejecting the IAG bid as it currently stood. The delegates loved it.
However, the motion had been drawn up in consultation with senior staffers from Government Buildings, who were 
in constant contact with Donohoe's office. Even though many delegates weren't aware of it, Labour wasn't just 
ruling out the current bid - it was setting out the sort of terms Walsh would have to meet if he was to get the deal 
through.
The opposition to the bid prompted a change in tone of the takeover. Walsh himself would fly over much more and 
go on the offensive, selling the offer to sceptical politicians and public at every opportunity, from an appearance at 
an Oireachtas committee to various business lobby group breakfasts and lunches. Additional support on the ground 
was brought in to counter negative media, with PR outfit Drury drafted in.
Donohoe's officials were now in contact with IAG on a regular basis, meeting weekly. They stressed that the 
government was still prepared to walk away from the process if they didn't get the assurances they wanted - even 
though privately, they knew their hand wasn't that strong. But what cards Donohoe had, he played cleverly. His 
stock in government has surged during the process.
The unions, naturally, were opposed. But not entirely. According to multiple sources, since the emergence of the bid 
there has been a split between the main unions, Siptu and Impact, about the stance to take. IAG had several 
meetings with unions at Aer Lingus in March, but most of the discussions on winning over wary staff, fearful that 
Aer Lingus takeover: Paschal's wager
Walsh would live up to his    Slasher   nickname, was left to the government and Aer Lingus management - with 
junior minister Ged Nash playing a big role near the end, according to people involved.
   A lot of people had concerns about what he [Walsh] might do,   said another person involved in the talks between 
unions and the both the government and IAG.    But I've dealt with him before, and if you do a deal with him, he 
sticks to it.
   I remember talking to him about catering when he was chief executive. He said: 'We fly people and cargo, not 
sausages'. But the catering department is still there.  
Critical for Siptu was ensuring that a registered employment agreement would be extended to all of the company's 
staff, not the 60 per cent currently covered. Along with that, they wanted an assurance that the recently-concluded 
arrangement for settling the long-running pensions dispute, and also an internal disputes resolution body, would be 
maintained.
**Momentum**
As March turned into April, Labour was inching towards accepting a deal, but it still wasn't happy that the required 
conditions were going to be nailed down to its satisfaction. When, three weeks ago, Donohoe attended a meeting of 
the Economic Management Council - the inner cabinet of Enda Kenny, Michael Noonan, Joan Burton and Brendan 
Howlin - he found that there was still serious division at the very top of the administration. There were forthright 
exchanges between the Labour and Fine Gael sides. Labour needed better assurances than it was getting, or the 
deal was a no-go. Donohoe went back to work.
But the momentum towards a deal was unstoppable now. IAG agreed on the principle of giving assurances on 
routes, connectivity, jobs, the Heathrow slots, and so on; but Labour TDs wanted to see them written down before 
they would agree. Texts were swapped, and drafts argued over. The process was tortuous. But it was moving 
towards a conclusion - though not, as political sources made clear, before the Carlow-Kilkenny by-election.
Last weekend, government insiders were predicting that a formal decision was imminent. But there was still a few 
last-minute hiccups; there always is. Fine Gael wondered if Joan Burton would veto the plan at the last minute; her 
backbenchers were agitating again on the nature of the assurances. A group of them wanted EUR 35 million from 
the sale to be made available for a group of deferred pensioners, who have been mounting a vigorous lobbying 
campaign to have their pension funds topped up. They have picketed Donohoe's home, to which he took great 
exception.
That wasn't the reason they were turned down - Donohoe's officials warned of the precedent of bailing out a private 
pension fund. The Department of Finance wouldn't countenance it. The Labour backbenchers were told: no way. 
But it wasn't a deal-breaker.
One key incident was the briefing given by Aer Lingus chief executive Stephen Kavanagh at the Labour 
parliamentary party meeting last week. He gave assurances that he wanted to keep Aer Lingus work    in-house  , 
rather than relying on outsourcing. And he said that there would be no need for compulsory redundancies to 
achieve the targeted reduction of 50 staff, because there were already hundreds of staff in the queue for early 
retirement packages. In the end, TDs' concerns were allayed by a letter from Kavanagh to Nash. Having got nearly 
everything they wanted, the way was clear for the cabinet to okay the deal.
Clare TD Michael McNamara wasn't happy, though. He wouldn't vote for it, and lost the party whip. The usual 
briefing about constituency concerns followed from his erstwhile colleagues. Labour's top brass were annoyed, but 
regarded one TD as an acceptable level of loss.
**Postscript: Ryanair**
Aer Lingus takeover: Paschal's wager
Of course, no tale about Aer Lingus would be complete without Ryanair and its chief executive Michael O'Leary, 
who has remained uncharacteristically silent during the whole process. Without selling its 29 per cent in its rival, this 
deal doesn't fly.
There have been a number of back-channel communications to O'Leary.
He was in the US last week, touring investors and financial media after releasing Ryanair's annual results, which 
showed a staggered profit of EUR 867 million. A spokesman for the airline said it would consider the deal only after 
it received the formal offer document.
O'Leary has been engaged with British competition regulators over the stake for years (a battle that may continue 
regardless of the outcome), and this would represent an opportunity to get out at a decent price.
Sources say one consideration for Ryanair is the big investors with stakes in both the Irish airline and IAG who are 
keen for this to happen. Although there may be a bit of grandstanding by O'Leary, it is expected that he will 
eventually decide to do a deal.
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Kerry Airport hopes for conference take-off
Kerry Airport hopes for conference take-off
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 330 words
Body
**Company:**Kerry Airport
**Done Deal:**international aviation conference worth EUR 750,000 to local economy
**The clincher:**   We are a small regional airport, competing with regional airports and tourist destinations across 
Europe - we wanted to bring the airlines to our doorstep.   - **Carol O'Donoghue**, route development manager, 
Kerry Airport
.......
An international aviation conference taking place in Killarney this week is expected to generate revenues of EUR 
750,000 for the local economy, according to organiser Kerry Airport.
The airport will host 450 representatives from 50 airlines and 150 airports worldwide for three days from 
Wednesday, with the aim of increasing the number of tourists flying into the Farranfore facility from overseas.
Kerry Airport will be the first Irish airport to host the Connect Aviation Conference. Speakers will include WestJet's 
John Weatherill, CityJet's Cathal O'Connell, and Laurent Magnin of XL Airways France.
Carol O'Donoghue, Kerry Airport's route development manager, said the decision to host the conference was part 
of a wider strategy to increase routes to Britain and mainland Europe.
Established 25 years ago, Kerry Airport operates six Ryanair routes to London Stansted as well as routes to Luton, 
Frankfurt, Alicante in Spain and Portugal's Faro. It has one Aer Lingus route operating to and from Dublin.
Figures released earlier this week showed passenger throughput of 295,251 last year, and revenues of EUR 6 
million.
Kerry Airport hopes for conference take-off
O'Donoghue said the airport was financially    self-sustaining   and eager to establish new routes to Manchester and 
Birmingham in Britain, and Germany and France.
   This was our first time going out to try to get the [Connect Aviation] event, which is important for us because we 
would see our main market as inbound tourism,   she said.
   We are a small regional airport, competing with other regional airports and tourist destinations across Europe - we 
wanted to bring the airlines to our doorstep.  
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
IAG deal confirms Aer Lingus success
IAG deal confirms Aer Lingus success
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1058 words
Body
From the days of having Willie Walsh as its chief executive, through to the present, Aer Lingus has been on a clear 
and careful path. With a tough competitor and subsequent shareholder in the form of Ryanair, it was apparent to 
Walsh that if the company did not shape up, there would be no more shamrocks on aircraft tails at Dublin, only 
harps.
By disciplined and consistent management, it has dramatically improved its productivity, reshaped its network, 
invested in its fleet and customer service and delivered strong profitability. All this has been achieved against a 
challenging economic backdrop which would have put a lesser company out of business.
The completion of the sale of the remaining Irish government stake to IAG and, subject also to Ryanair accepting to 
sell its stake, will in effect bring to fruition something Walsh believed should have been done during his tenure as 
chief executive - the 100 per cent privatisation of Aer Lingus.
The success story might continue for some time with Aer Lingus remaining independent, but it would be contrary to 
the consolidation trend which is now widespread in the industry. In the US there are three large airline groups with 
global networks (American, Delta and United), and two large low-cost carriers. In Europe, there are also three 
global network carriers (Air France KLM, IAG and Lufthansa), and two large low-cost carriers (EasyJet and 
Ryanair).
The difference is that in the US, the five airlines account for around 95 per cent of capacity while in Europe, the 
equivalent figure is around 65 per cent. There is much more consolidation to come here.
There are smaller national carriers still in operation for which life is becoming increasingly difficult. Hungary's 
national airline Malev went bankrupt, a similar fate appeared likely for Alitalia until it was rescued by the Gulf carrier 
Etihad. The same airline invested in Air Serbia (formerly JAT), and Czech Airlines was saved by South Korean 
investment. Other small airlines like Finnair and SAS are wrestling with cost-cutting, intense competition from low-
IAG deal confirms Aer Lingus success
cost carriers and wondering where their future lies. The chief executive of Finnair has acknowledged that the days 
of national carriers are over and his company is likely to seek membership of a larger grouping.
So the strong financial performance of Aer Lingus is exceptional for a small European carrier, and a real testament 
to its management. The numerous external shocks to which the industry is regularly exposed, ranging from volatile 
fuel prices, economic downturns to manmade and natural disasters, hit smaller companies disproportionately hard.
In the case of Aer Lingus, its home on the western periphery of Europe compounds the challenge, limiting its ability 
to tap into many growing eastbound markets as a complement or alternative to its strong north Atlantic position. It's 
no surprise that carriers like Emirates and Etihad are tapping into rich eastbound traffic flows from Dublin via their 
Gulf hubs. Aer Lingus cannot access similar traffic flows on its own, it tried Dubai previously but it failed to work as 
a standalone point-to-point route.
The only ways to survive are to maintain strong cash reserves and an ability to respond flexibly to market adversity. 
Given these considerations and the incomplete consolidation of the European airline sector, it is my view that it is 
now wholly coherent for Aer Lingus to join the IAG airline family. The proposal makes sense not purely because of 
the increased protection and resilience against market challenges which it offers to Aer Lingus, but more positively 
because it plays to its strengths in the North Atlantic market.
This market has a natural foundation in the strong Irish diaspora on the US eastern seaboard, but Ireland is 
geographically ideally placed to develop this traffic further when working with IAG, which itself is a leader in this 
market and which would provide access to powerful hubs in Heathrow and Madrid.
In particular, Aer Lingus's strong position in the British regions already enables it to attract North American traffic 
but it faces heavy competition. Its ability to exploit this market would be significantly strengthened when linked with 
IAG's (British Airways) frequent flyer programme and numerous corporate travel deals, locking in additional 
business which might otherwise use another airline to fly to the US.
Additionally, Aer Lingus will be able to strengthen traffic on its Heathrow services to points in Africa, Asia and the 
Middle East and via Madrid to Latin America, allowing it to diversify its activity while strengthening IAG's own 
position in these markets. It makes a very complementary fit from which both sides benefit.
And why IAG, as opposed to any other airline group? The reality is that it is well ahead of its peer-group players in 
efficiency and profitability. Air France KLM and Lufthansa still have considerable work to do to reduce costs and 
deliver adequate financial performance. They are finding it difficult to get close to what IAG has already achieved in 
terms of industrial relations progress and in tackling competitive threats. Neither group is in the acquisition game 
right now; nor does either offer the compatibility and dovetailing of network which the IAG proposal offers.
IAG is becoming an increasingly impressive portfolio of airlines. British Airways is highly profitable and has the 
envied strength of its Heathrow hub position. Iberia, an airline which many believed was beyond saving, is now 
starting to deliver good results and has excellent access to the growing Latin American market. Vueling, a 
previously independent low-cost carrier, is also profitable and able to compete successfully with Ryanair and 
EasyJet.
The construction of the group allows it to exploit synergies and negotiating strength with suppliers, thus keeping 
costs under control, while retaining independent management focus for each company and the customer appeal of 
the different respected airline brands.
For Aer Lingus to join IAG would be a recognition of the success it has already achieved on its own, and the most 
secure way for it to build on this and grow in the future.
*John Strickland has 32 years of experience in the airline business, and is director of JLS Consulting, which 
provides advisory services to clients in the air transport industry*
IAG deal confirms Aer Lingus success
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Government deserves credit for IAG deal
Government deserves credit for IAG deal
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 565 words
Body
The government is to be applauded for giving its approval to the proposed EUR 1.4 billion takeover of Aer Lingus, 
Ireland's national airline, by IAG. It has set aside political expediency and the potential of electoral losses in certain 
pockets of Dublin and Shannon, and made a cold, calculated decision. It is also the right decision for both the airline 
and the country.
The government has driven a hard bargain, and has secured commitments and compromises from IAG that few 
would have imagined possible when the British Airways owners first started the process in December last. If 
anything, the success of the government in negotiating guarantees over the Heathrow slots shows the importance 
of the government retaining its minority holding when the airline was floated on the stock market in 2006. The 
government has long maintained that it would sell the 25.1 per cent stake at the right time, and under the right 
conditions. Certainly, it has managed to secure the latter, and Minister for Transport Pascal Donohoe must be 
congratulated.
When the takeover was first mooted, it was widely accepted that politics would triumph over commerce and that the 
state would not sell its stake. This view was copperfastened when the government rejected the initial offer. Indeed, 
the markets were initially not expecting a deal, and had priced the shares accordingly.
Ultimately, however, commerce won out. The opposition to the deal softened the longer the process went on, and 
the more concessions the government secured. As week followed week, politicians began to debate the issues - 
connectivity, aviation consolidation, routes - and moved beyond the emotion of selling off the state's remaining 
stake in the national flag carrier. Slowly, politicians began to see the deal's merits.
From the beginning, this newspaper advocated the state selling its stake if the terms of the IAG offer were 
appropriate and if they met the bulk of the government's demands. We saw no reason to change that view as the 
process meandered on, and see no reason to change it now. We argued then, as we argue today, that a 25 per 
cent shareholder was neither here nor there: large enough to spook the market, but too small to really matter. We 
Government deserves credit for IAG deal
also believe that not all prospective suitors would be as polite as IAG, which rejected any notion that it would take 
over the airline through a more hostile process.
Likewise, if another proposed takeover of the airline had been collapsed by the state for political purposes, it would 
have caused chaos for the company. Investors would have run for cover, and its share price would have fallen 
heavily.
And so to Ryanair. With the government squared off and a vote of approval from the Dáil, all eyes are on the low-
cost airline, which is both a competitor and a major shareholder of Aer Lingus. There has been speculation that 
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary might try to force IAG to improve its EUR 2.55 a share offer, although IAG boss 
Willie Walsh has been clear that EUR 2.55 is the limit. Walsh has said he will not haggle with Ryanair for its 29.8 
per cent stake.
The government engaged with Ryanair in advance of making its decision. Presumably, it was given comfort that if 
the government was agreeable, so too would Ryanair be. O'Leary, however, is predictably unpredictable. But even 
if Ryanair scotches the deal, the government will still emerge with some credit.
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Sunday Papers: Opec under siege as Isil threatens world's oil lifeline
Sunday Papers: Opec under siege as Isil threatens world's oil lifeline
Citywire
May 31, 2015 Sunday 3:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 762 words
Body
Top stories The Sunday Telegraph: Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the Gulf states and Iraq which together account for two 
thirds of the cartel's production are all now affected by the inexorable march of the Isil jihadists but appear 
powerless to prevent it due to the widening sectarian schism between the Sunni and Shia Muslims across the 
region in the wake of the Arab spring uprisings five years ago. The Observer: British overseas tax havens play a 
key role in what US authorities have called rampant, systemic and deep-rooted corruption in the world of football. 
The Sunday Telegraph: Property investors in Qatar could be burnt twice in less than a decade if the country was to 
lose the right to host the 2022 World Cup as the Fifa scandal unfolds, experts have warned. The Sunday Telegraph: 
AO World, the fridge and freezer retailer that listed with a controversial £1.2 billion valuation last year, is on course 
to unveil another year of losses. 
Mail on Sunday: Economic growth has sped up in the past three months, allaying recent fears that the UK's 
recovery is stalling, according to the Confederation of British Industry. The Observer: Ryanair, the famously 
abrasive budget airline has made a concerted effort to soften its approach - and has been rewarded with some 
impressive annual results. Business and economics Mail on Sunday: Supermarket group Morrisons will face 
demands at its annual meeting this week to increase staff pay and help reduce the nation's benefits bill, in the latest 
salvo of a coordinated attack on Britain's blue chip companies by wage campaigners and City investors. Mail on 
Sunday: A shrinking US economy and jitters about Greece put the skids under top-flight shares yesterday; 
Washington slashed its GDP estimate to show the economy contracted at a 0.7% annual rate in the first quarter 
instead of the 0.2% growth it estimated in April. Mail on Sunday: Former Conservative leader Michael Howard has 
joined the board of Quindell on the day the scandal-dogged firm was forced to set aside £50 million to compensate 
for 'inappropriate' accounting policies. Mail on Sunday: Sentiment towards the UK housing market cooled slightly 
last month, despite signs the economy is improving, house prices are still climbing and interest rates are not rising 
until next year, research shows. The Independent on Sunday: The tobacco industry has been accused of appalling 
hypocrisy, amid claims that it is fuelling the illicit trade in cigarette smuggling to bolster its arguments against tax 
increases and other anti-smoking measures. The Sunday Telegraph: The Co-operative Bank has raised the 
prospect of quietly closing off its internet bank Smile to new customers, as it cuts costs and attempts to rebuild the 
reputation of its core business. The Sunday Telegraph: Entertainment One, the maker of the children's television 
favourite Peppa Pig, is considering abandoning the London Stock Exchange for New York in a bid to boost its 
investor base and stock market valuation, the company's chief executive has warned. The Sunday Telegraph: The 
UK's largest business rates specialist, CVS, has been accused of acting unfairly by a group of unhappy customers, 
after the company continued to demand payments after its apparent five-year contract. The Sunday Telegraph: The 
boss of British yoghurt-maker Yeo Valley has warned that the removal of the EU milk quota system, which 
Sunday Papers: Opec under siege as Isil threatens world's oil lifeline
previously capped production will be another blow for struggling farmers. The Sunday Telegraph: Halfords, the 
bicycle retailer, is expected to show that profits are still pedalling forward on the back of the company's overhaul of 
its stores and improved cycle ranges. The Sunday Telegraph: Opec is expected to sit on its hands next week and 
leave its production levels unchanged despite the concerns of Iran, Venezuela and a clutch of African producers 
about oil prices languishing well under $100 per barrel. Share tips, comment and bids Mail on Sunday: Steve 
Gross, an expert fisherman who began selling bait when he was 13 is poised to float his company on the AIM stock 
market on Thursday valuing it at £3.5 million. The Sunday Telegraph: Integrated Dental Holdings (IDH), Europe's 
biggest dentist chain has revived plans for a £1 billion London stock market float after overcoming fears about the 
outcome of the general election. The Sunday Telegraph: The owners of Liberty, London's 140-year-old luxury 
department store, are eyeing a float of the famous retailer after overseeing its dramatic turnaround. The Sunday 
Telegraph (Comment): If China's economy stumbles, the world falls.
Load-Date: June 2, 2015
End of Document
Target deal gets Drop on the US market; Smart kitchen start-up to raise more funds
Target deal gets Drop on the US market; Smart kitchen start-up to raise more 
funds
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 510 words
Body
Drop, the connected kitchen product start-up, has accelerated its assault on the US market by getting an item on 
shelves in Target's 2,000 stores across the states.
Target is a $72 billion Nasdaq listed retail goliath and presence there should boost Drop's sales far beyond its EUR 
1 million first year revenue figure.
The $2 million backed company will raise fresh funding in the first quarter of next year and is close to launching the 
next product in a pipeline of 'Internet of Things' innovations for use in the kitchen.
   By end of week we will be in every Target store in America,   co-founder and chief executive Ben Harris said.    
We're at an exciting stage for the company.  
Drop launched over a year ago with its first product, the Drop Kitchen Connected Scale, which works wirelessly with 
an iPad app providing interactive recipes.
   We've come a long way since then,   said Harris.
Investors in Drop include tech tycoon Liam Casey's PCH, the China based maker of many of Apple's products and 
accessories.
Ryanair scion Declan Ryan's Frontline Ventures is a main backer.
Drop rolled out last February at the Launch Festival, the hardware product event where FitBit and Dropbox first 
rolled out, where it won 'best consumer product'.
   Then on November 18, a date I won't quickly forget we launched in every Apple store in America and Canada,   
said Harris.    We were in Britain by the end of the year and we're in Apple Australia.  
Target deal gets Drop on the US market; Smart kitchen start-up to raise more funds
It recently got shelf space in every Lakeland store in Britain and sells in Harvey Norman in Ireland.
Harris started the company with co-founders Jack Phelan, Jonny McCauley and Tim Redfern,    four creative 
technologists and designers with a love of great food  .
Drop raised $1.6 million last summer, bringing its total funding to $2 million.    We'll be looking to fundraise again in 
Q1 of next year,   said Harris.    There is great interest there already. It will be a Series A funding round [ie between 
$2 million and $10 million].    We've come a long way on our initial seed investment.
   Really where we want to get is to create different products that would support all around the kitchen, where Drop 
becomes the operating system for the kitchen.  
Its next product focuses on temperature.    In the immediate term we're focusing on software launches and in the 
next 12 months we should be making a couple of new product announcements.
   The race towards the connected kitchen has definitely started,   said Harris.    This wave of connected houseware 
goods products has started to come across the kitchen.  
Drop is different from others in that it starts with the consumer, he said.
   Connected fridges and remotely controlled ovens are about thinking of the benefit to a company. We're focussing 
on the benefit to the end user. We really wanted to start there. That's why we focus on the user interface and end 
design.
   Every one of the kitchen manufacturers has an interconnected kitchen programme going on right now. I think in 
the next two or three years people are going to wonder how they did without it.  
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus takeover: 'There were occasions where the negotiations were very close to collapse'
Aer Lingus takeover: 'There were occasions where the negotiations were 
very close to collapse'
Sunday Business Post
May 31, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1714 words
Body
It's late Friday afternoon when Willie Walsh greets me at the door of a meeting room on the top floor of Goodbody 
Stockbrokers, his corporate advisers, in central Dublin. It's a different Walsh from the one who a few days earlier 
spent the best part of an hour answering questions on IAG's EUR 1.4 billion takeover bid for Aer Lingus from Irish 
and international media. Gone is the dark suit, replaced with a casual shirt and pale jumper, and he's more relaxed.
Where Ryanair's three bids for Aer Lingus failed was the lack of support from the airline's board and the 
government, which retained a 25 per cent stake in the company post its flotation in 2006.
Walsh scored a major coup last week as the Dáil voted to back the sale to IAG, the owner of British Airways, Iberia 
and Vueling airlines. Six months have been spent getting their approval.
Now there will be another push for the greenlight of other Aer Lingus shareholders, including its biggest, Ryanair, 
led by chief executive Michael O'Leary.
The business case for taking over Aer Lingus may be compelling for IAG, but did Walsh not understand the last 
thing Fine Gael and Labour needed was Willie Walsh swooping in to buy his former employer?
   I understood the politics of the issue, but I was working on the basis that this is something the government would 
understand and probably, on balance, see as an attractive proposition,   he tells me.
   Maybe I misjudged the sensitivity of where the coalition government was at the time, but I came to terms with that. 
It's lucky that I am Irish. There are people on my board who struggled to understand what was going on. We didn't 
want to do anything that was going to create political uncertainty.  
It's nearly 10 years since Walsh joined BA as chief executive, a hugely prestigious post not only in British corporate 
life, but in global aviation. However, there has always been a sense that his departure from Aer Lingus left a sour 
taste, and Walsh has craved getting back to Dublin to complete unfinished business.
Aer Lingus takeover: 'There were occasions where the negotiations were very close to collapse'
After all, he left the Irish carrier after his failure to acquire it through a MBO. The truth, he argues, is that Aer Lingus 
was on IAG's radar as it made sense to add another growing brand to its stable.
   If anything, this was really pushed onto the agenda by my team rather than myself. I was conscious that it might 
be perceived as Willie Walsh doing some unfinished business. And I didn't want that.
   To a large degree I adopted a more negative attitude towards it, challenging people, because I wanted them to be 
absolutely clear that they saw this as an attractive business proposal and separate it from my involvement in the 
company previously. We assessed Aer Lingus in the same way we assessed other potential acquisitions,   he says.
It's unusual to see a major corporate takeover in December. However, the timing was dictated by events out of 
Walsh's control. Aer Lingus needed to finally resolve its long-running pension dispute and get that approved by 
shareholders.
He was then able to approach Aer Lingus chairman Colm Barrington about the combination and sell him on the 
benefits for investors, staff, the Irish economy and passengers. Getting the board to agree was vital. However, the 
government and unions still needed to be persuaded.
Walsh was his tough-talking self at the Oireachtas transport committee in February when he told TDs and senators 
that when he comes to the negotiating table it is his first offer that better be accepted, or subsequent ones will be 
worse.
Weeks later the government rejected the concessions he had offered of guaranteeing all of the existing services 
from Irish airports to Heathrow for five years, demanding IAG come back to the table with an improved package or 
there would be no agreement.
   Five years was an important figure for me. It was the figure that had been agreed under the commitment for the 
BA/Iberia merger. It was something we had negotiated around when we created IAG. For that reason I was 
personally very reluctant to go beyond it,   Walsh said.
What has emerged, from speaking to all sides in the takeover, from government to unions and advisers, is that 
transport minister Paschal Donohoe was no pushover for Walsh, a man used to conducting international mergers, 
brokering deals with aircraft manufacturers and taking on unions.
   There were occasions during the meetings where in effect the negotiations     if they hadn't [actually] collapsed, 
were very close to it. Some of the direct discussions we had were a bit heated at times. I've always tried in 
negotiations, no matter who I negotiate with, to be able to shake hands at the end of it.
   You can have big rows and disagreements but it's important that you recognise it is a professional thing you are 
doing. It's not personal, sometimes it can feel personal. It eventually led to a position where we were able to agree 
on a compromise that gave him what he needed and gave us something we could work with.  
Can he understand the concerns many people have about the slots from Shannon, Cork and Dublin airports to 
Heathrow being cut and used for IAG's other routes?
   There is genuine concern about Heathrow that goes beyond politics and business. People in Ireland see this as a 
very sensitive issue and are concerned that if Heathrow flights disappear then it would have an impact on their 
ability to travel internationally and for business to connect.
   I don't share that fully because I operate in a global business and I know of all the options that people have. But I 
understood it. I pointed out to people on my board that when Aer Lingus stopped flying from Shannon people 
demonstrated about it. In the UK we take access to Heathrow for granted but you look at other countries who see it 
being crucial.  
Aer Lingus takeover: 'There were occasions where the negotiations were very close to collapse'
The former pilot, who has spent more than three decades in aviation since joining Aer Lingus as a teenager, is most 
passionate when discussing the benefits of Aer Lingus being part of the wider IAG family, growing around the world, 
not shrinking.
   We want people in Aer Lingus to feel excited about being part of IAG and we were clear that this is long term. 
We're not looking at Aer Lingus for the next one, two, three years     we are looking at Aer Lingus forever into the 
future. We are looking at this in a positive way.
   We've watched with interest how they've developed the network, particularly transatlantic. Ireland is in a great 
position. Sometimes people say 'Ireland is a very small country'. You are not selling to Ireland. You are selling to 
the Irish diaspora, you are selling to huge businesses with links to Ireland. And Aer Lingus have done a great job in 
creating a hub at Dublin and we see it has the potential to expand with the advantage of the customs and border 
pre-clearance. It's very attractive.  
For example, people in Britain will find it easier to get to the US by connecting through Dublin instead of flying to 
Amsterdam. As part of the agreement with the government, services to the US from Ireland will be boosted by the 
opening of four additional, (albeit for now, unnamed) routes to America. Those routes will be marketed by IAG's 
existing partners, including American Airlines, which will boost inbound passenger numbers.
Walsh also sees an opportunity for Aer Lingus to look eastward at destinations in Asia.    You'd start with India, 
Japan and China. I think China could be a real opportunity as Ireland has real trade links with China. Our 
experience with BA in China is that it is a slow burn and takes a long time.  
But what happens when the aviation industry goes through one of its regular downturns? Will the commitments 
made to the government and unions stick?
Says Walsh:    In the past the airline industry was chronically unprofitable because it had a cost base that was 
designed to work during the peak. What has been happening, and this is where Aer Lingus deserves great credit, is 
it has restructured its cost base. It has demonstrated it can be profitable in a weaker economic environment.
   It was a given in the airline industry that you can't make money in a downturn. Then O'Leary came along and 
showed you can make money during the whole of the cycle.
   You have to be flexible in contracts you have with suppliers so you keep as much of the cost base as variable as 
possible, and if you do need to adjust, it's not going to adjust the internal cost base only.  
Walsh heaps praise on the new Aer Lingus chief executive Stephen Kavanagh. As the man that once occupied that 
office in Dublin Airport, will he be able to take a step back and let Kavanagh run the show?
   What I've said to Stephen is he should talk to the guys who run BA, Vueling and Iberia. I don't ring them every 
day. I had to adjust my own behaviour when we created IAG. Most of the people who would have worked with me in 
BA were concerned that I would not be able to detach myself from BA. And I recognised that. It's a lesson I learned 
at Aer Lingus when I was [chief operating officer] and I became CEO and appointed Seamus Kearney to do the job 
I used to do. And I can remember sitting there and thinking I wouldn't do it like that. And I had to bite my tongue and 
say 'it's no longer my job'.  
As the hour with Walsh ends, the conversation turns back to the motivation for the Aer Lingus deal and he repeats 
it's the strength of IAG as one of the world's leading aviation groups that motivates him now.
   It's not about coming back to Aer Lingus. It's nice as I loved my time there. I still have a lot of friends who work 
there and a lot of friends who used to work there. But I like this as it's another business transaction that will be 
successful and it proves to people yet again we have a model that was going to work. And a lot of people didn't 
believe it would. I see this as further evidence of IAG being a success and that's what gives me the greatest 
pleasure.  
Aer Lingus takeover: 'There were occasions where the negotiations were very close to collapse'
After last Wednesday's press conference, Walsh and his team enjoyed a few pints in Neary's. It wasn't a major 
celebration as the transaction still has a lot of hurdles to cross (including getting an unusually quiet Michael O'Leary 
to agree) but it marked the significance of the government agreeing to sell its 25 per cent stake.
For Walsh, completing the takeover of Aer Lingus may not even be his last airline deal.
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
The F word
The F word
Financial Times (London, England)
May 29, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 20
Length: 245 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
The skilled boss uses creative vagueness to pressure opponents. But the Irish Takeover Panel has no truck with 
the tactic, if that's what it was, in the tussle for Aer Lingus. The panel's green-cowled elders stepped in after Willie 
Walsh of International Airlines Group, said in meetings that he was not minded to increase a EUR1.35bn bid 
announced on Wednesday. They nudged IAG to state formally 24 hours later that the offer was "final".
A similar episode involving the UK Takeover Panel helped scupper Pfizer's £70bn bid for AstraZeneca last year. 
The difference is that Aer Lingus has recommended IAG's offer. Moreover, the Irish government has agreed to sell 
its 25 per cent stake . The only remaining obstacle to the takeover is low-cost airline Ryanair, which owns 29.9 per 
cent of the Irish flag carrier.
The acquiescence of the Aer Lingus board makes it easier for IAG to come back with a raised bid than it was for 
Pfizer. The owner of British Airways and Iberia can launch a new offer bearing the same seal of approval three 
months after the old one lapses.
The board of Ryanair is unlikely to consider the current bid before a formal offer document is published in the next 
four weeks. That leaves chief executive Michael O'Leary to exploit creative vagueness himself.
As an aside, Lombard once had a boss who tackled problems with the words "I'll reflect on that", knowing most 
would resolve themselves while he pondered. Annoying. Worked.
The F word
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com 
Load-Date: May 28, 2015
End of Document
Irish parliament clears IAG for take-off in buyout of Aer Lingus
Irish parliament clears IAG for take-off in buyout of Aer Lingus
City A.M.
May 29, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 153 words
Byline: JESSICA MORRIS
Body
THE Irish parliament yesterday gave British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines' (IAG) bid for Aer 
Lingus the final go-ahead.
Irish MPs voted by a majority of 23 according to local media reports, ending two days of tense negotiations. The 
vote comes after the Irish government agreed to sell its 25 per cent in Aer Lingus to IAG earlier this week, saying 
that IAG had made "a number of extremely important changes" to its initial offer. The government said it did not 
foresee any redundancies and that another 635 jobs could be created by 2020.
Aer Lingus chairman Colm Barrington praised the deal, saying it would benefit "shareholders, its employees, its 
customers and Ireland".
IAG now needs to buy the stake owned by Ryanair, which has 29 per cent of Aer Lingus's shares.
If the deal completes Aer Lingus will be back under the leadership of Willie Walsh, IAG's chief, who led Aer Lingus 
from 2001 to 2005.
Graphic
 
IAG now depends on Ryanair's approval before it can buy the Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus
Irish parliament clears IAG for take-off in buyout of Aer Lingus
Load-Date: May 29, 2015
End of Document
Ireland 's parliament votes in favor of Aer Lingus share sale
Ireland's parliament votes in favor of Aer Lingus share sale
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 28, 2015 Thursday 5:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 261 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
LONDON (AP) - Ireland's parliament on Thursday voted in favor of selling off the country's share in the Aer Lingus 
airline as part of a 1.4 billion euro (US$1.53 billion) takeover bid by International Airlines Group, the parent 
company of British Airways.
The coalition government secured the majority backing it needed in Parliament for sale of the stake, with lawmakers 
voting in favor after two days of heated debate.
The Irish government had retained a 25 percent stake in Dublin-based Aer Lingus after it was publicly floated on the 
Irish and London Stock Exchanges in 2006.
Aer Lingus chairman Colm Barrington welcomed the vote, saying the airline would benefit from accelerated growth 
and access to a global network when it becomes part of the much larger IAG, which also operates Spain's Iberia 
airline.
IAG chief Willie Walsh has been wooing the Irish government for months in his attempt to buy out Aer Lingus. If the 
deal goes ahead, the government would receive some 350 million euros ($380 million).
But Walsh's bid must still clear many hurdles, and needs backing from low-cost carrier Ryanair, the largest 
shareholder of Aer Lingus, to complete the deal.
Ryanair, which owns about 30 percent of Aer Lingus, said it would consider "any offer on its merits, if and when an 
offer is made."
Walsh said Wednesday he has not talked to Ryanair in recent weeks, and suggested that he was not expecting 
Ryanair to frustrate the bid.
The proposed takeover also faces months of regulatory scrutiny from competition authorities in Ireland, Britain and 
the European Union.
Load-Date: May 29, 2015
Ireland 's parliament votes in favor of Aer Lingus share sale
End of Document
Irish Yes to Aer Lingus bid gives Ryanair the whip hand over IAG
Irish Yes to Aer Lingus bid gives Ryanair the whip hand over IAG
Financial Times (London, England)
May 28, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 22
Length: 306 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary must be relishing this moment. In his hands he holds the fate of the EUR1.35bn bid 
for Aer Lingus from International Airlines Group. The disruptive low-cost carrier gets to yank the chain of a business 
rooted in the entitled traditions of British Airways.
Mr O'Leary has a wicked sense of humour and IAG boss Willie Walsh has a quick temper. The two Irishmen will 
need to keep both tendencies in check as they circle one another. The Irish government has agreed to sell IAG its 
25 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, Ireland's flag carrier. That means Ryanair, which has a 29.9 per cent shareholding, 
is the only potential obstacle to the deal, competition regulators excepted.
The apparent ascendancy will be bittersweet, however. The same watchdogs blocked Ryanair's own attempt to buy 
Aer Lingus and its prized Heathrow landing slots. The UK's Competition and Markets Authority ordered Ryanair to 
sell its stake, infuriating Mr O'Leary.
Nor can he expect Ryanair investors to tolerate him snubbing Mr Walsh in hopes that lengthy legal action could 
overturn those regulatory decisions. Shareholders would get a cash windfall from the EUR405m sale of a stake that 
analysts at Jefferies note was booked at EUR226m.
According to some deal theorists, IAG may offer Ryanair such sweeteners as the chance to share capacity on some 
routes. But the Irish Takeover Panel would probably object. IAG needed a rare panel waiver to give the Irish 
government guarantees that it would continue flying Irish routes for five or seven years.
Irish Yes to Aer Lingus bid gives Ryanair the whip hand over IAG
In reality, Ryanair can really only ask for a price higher than EUR2.55 per share for everyone, with the risk that 
going too high would derail the deal. So there is danger for both men, beyond the risk that a trademark O'Leary quip 
will trigger an explosion from Mr Walsh.
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com 
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
End of Document
Synergy sinks as takeover talks teeter London
Synergy sinks as takeover talks teeter; London
Financial Times (London, England)
May 28, 2015 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 23
Length: 396 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Synergy Health tumbled yesterday as fears grew that its takeover by a US peer might be close to collapse.
Traders heard talk that antitrust regulators had been preparing to sue Steris, the US sterilisation equipment maker, 
to block its £1.2bn tax inversion takeover of Synergy.
The catalyst for the speculation was an update posted on the US Federal Trade Commission website, which 
revealed its committee would meet in private yesterday afternoon to discuss an unidentified enforcement action.
Steris had said in January that the FTC needed extra information about its deal with Synergy, which has been 
pushed back twice from its original close date of March 31.
The FTC's second request was not expected, as Synergy and Steris have little geographical overlap and tend to 
compete with in-house sterilisation labs rather than outsourcers. That made the companies popular among merger 
arbitrageurs, who buy shares of a target and sell the acquirer: nearly 17 per cent of Steris's shares have been lent 
to short sellers, Markit data show.
Most FTC second requests end with a demand for disposals. If a company views the remedies as unnecessary, it 
can either scrap the takeover or refuse to comply and take its case to court.
Synergy sinks as takeover talks teeter London
Synergy fell 15.8 per cent to £18.22 as 10m shares changed hands, the biggest daily volume since its flotation in 
2001.
Greek debt deal hopes triggered a wider market rebound, lifting the FTSE 100 by 1.2 per cent, or 84.34 points, to 
7,033.33. Over a two-day view, the index was little changed.
Imperial Tobacco rose 3.3 per cent to £33.93 after the FTC gave the go-ahead for its purchase of US brands shed 
as part of Reynolds American's purchase of Lorillard.
Aggregates maker CRH rose 3.5 per cent to £18.39 after formally signing off its EUR6.5bn acquisition of assets 
from Lafarge and Holcim.
Weir , an outperformer on Tuesday , slipped 0.7 per cent to £19.88 on a Deutsche Bank downgrade to "hold".
Beazley rose 6.9 per cent to 302.5p and Hiscox added 3.5 per cent to 861p after JPMorgan Cazenove turned 
positive on both insurers.
British Airways owner IAG rose 3.2 per cent to 562p on the Irish government's approval of its proposed bid for Aer 
Lingus , which rose 2.6 per cent to EUR2.44.
Ryanair , if it accepts IAG's offer, stands to make EUR405m for its 29.8 per cent Aer Lingus stake versus a book 
value of EUR226m. Its shares rose 2.4 per cent to EUR11.75.
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
End of Document
British Airways owner rises as it bids for Ryanair 's Aer Lingus stake
British Airways owner rises as it bids for Ryanair's Aer Lingus stake
City A.M.
May 28, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 183 words
Byline: CHARLOTTE HENRY
Body
SHARES in International Airlines Group (IAG) climbed steeply yesterday, with investors welcoming the prospect of 
its bid for Aer Lingus.
Shares in the British Airways owner ended up 3.21 per cent, at a value of 562p a share. The Irish airline's shares 
also took off, closing up 2.63 per cent at (EURO)2.56 (£1.70).
The rises come after the Irish government backed the Aer Lingus sale, and agreed to sell its 25 per cent holding in 
the airline.
To finalise the deal, IAG must now buy the stake owned by Ryanair. The budget airline owns 29 per cent of the 
shares in the former flag carrier.
The offer will come within days.
Speaking at news conference in Dublin, IAG boss Willie Walsh said: "We're in the position now where we will be 
issuing the formal offer documents within 28 days".
Walsh ruled out raising his company's offer from the (EURO)2.55 a share offer made on Tuesday, which valued Aer 
Lingus at (EURO)1.36bn.
Yesterday, a Ryanair spokesman said: "The board of Ryanair has not received any offer, and will examine any offer 
on its merits if and when one is received."
Ryanair also rose 2.35 per cent.
British Airways owner rises as it bids for Ryanair 's Aer Lingus stake
Load-Date: May 28, 2015
End of Document
Focus turns to Ryanair as IAG looks to seal Aer Lingus deal Focus turns to ...
Focus turns to Ryanair as IAG looks to seal Aer Lingus deal; Focus turns to 
...
Business World (Digest)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 573 words
Highlight: After securing approval of the Irish government for its takeover offer for Aer Lingus, British Airways-
owner IAG must now seek the backing of the Irish airline's other major shareholder, Ryanair, to seal the deal.
Body
After securing approval of the Irish government for its takeover offer for Aer Lingus, British Airways-owner IAG must 
now seek the backing of the Irish airline's other major shareholder, Ryanair, to seal the deal.
The Irish government on Tuesday agreed to sell its 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus, removing an obstacle that had 
stalled the 1.36 billion euro deal for months, after IAG gave reassurances on jobs and routes.
IAG has now formally launched its bid, which has already been recommended by the Aer Lingus board, but the deal 
remains conditional upon winning support from budget airline Ryanair, which owns 30 percent of its Irish rival.
Ryanair has fully written down the value of the stake, which it built up during several failed takeover attempts of its 
own, dating back to 2006. That means any proceeds from a sale would be a boost to its finances. "We're hopeful 
that Ryanair will see this as an attractive offer for their stake in Aer Lingus," IAG Chief Executive Willie Walsh told 
investors on a call on Wednesday. Cantor analyst Robin Byde said he expected Ryanair to agree to sell, as the 
likely 405 million euro windfall would be handy. "The additional cash would no doubt be welcome and may also 
accelerate planned buy-backs or further special dividends," he said. But Jefferies analysts expected Ryanair to 
"play hard ball." "Presumably if Ryanair rejected the offer as too low, the onus would be on IAG to return with a 
higher bid for all shareholders," they said. IAG's Walsh said on Wednesday he would not increase the bid. Ryanair 
repeated it would only consider the bid once it had received the formal offer document. IAG is due to issue the offer 
document within 28 days, Walsh said, adding he had no plans for direct talks with Ryanair. Aer Lingus shares were 
up 1.9 percent at 2.44 euros by 1045 GMT, below IAG's offer of 2.55 euros. IAG shares were up 0.8 percent at 549 
pence. Buying Aer Lingus would allow IAG to expand capacity on lucrative transatlantic routes by using Dublin 
airport to add more flights. Its biggest unit British Airways cannot do that at its main hub, London's Heathrow, 
because the airport is full. The Irish government, which had been urged by opposition parties and trade unions to 
Focus turns to Ryanair as IAG looks to seal Aer Lingus deal Focus turns to ...
reject IAG's offer and also faced objections to it from some ruling coalition lawmakers, had said Ryanair's attitude 
was key to its decision. Before backing the deal, it also sought reassurances on jobs, transatlantic services and 
connections to London. It said on Tuesday IAG's offer was the best way of securing Aer Lingus' future in a 
competitive market while also enhancing connectivity to Ireland, key for its rejuvenated tourism market. Walsh said 
the Dublin hub would be used to improve connections for airports in the UK regions that don't have flights to 
Heathrow. IAG also said it would increase the number of aircraft deployed to the Irish market by eight and add four 
additional transatlantic services. Ireland's parliament will begin to debate the deal later on Wednesday before a vote 
on Thursday set to be easily won with most coalition lawmakers, including a significant number from the junior 
Labor party, satisfied with IAG's commitments. Asked whether more concessions would be needed to gain approval 
from competition regulators, Walsh said the overlap between IAG airlines' current routes and those of Aer Lingus 
was "not on a significant scale." (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Irish government backs sale of Aer Lingus to IAG Irish governmen...
Irish government backs sale of Aer Lingus to IAG; Irish governmen...
Business World (Digest)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 494 words
Highlight: The Irish government agreed yesterday to sell its 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus to IAG, paving the way 
for the owner of British Airways and Iberia to make a formal bid for the Irish carrier.
Body
The Irish government agreed yesterday to sell its 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus to IAG, paving the way for the 
owner of British Airways and Iberia to make a formal bid for the Irish carrier.
International Consolidated Airlines Group's (IAG) proposed 1.36 billion euro offer for Aer Lingus was recommended 
by the Irish airline's board in January but is still conditional on receiving the support of its other main shareholder, 
Ryanair Holdings Plc.
"There's a number of extremely important changes that have led to this decision by government today," Paschal 
Donohoe told a news conference after a cabinet meeting.
In February the government presented IAG with a list of new demands it said had to be met before it would consider 
the sale, in areas including possible job cuts, transatlantic services and a longer guarantee on maintaining 
connections between Irish airports and London's Heathrow airport, BA's hub where Aer Lingus holds valuable 
runway slots. Formally presenting its 2.55 euros per share offer, IAG committed to Aer Lingus operating routes from 
Heathrow to Irish airports for at least seven years. "Acquiring Aer Lingus would add a fourth competitive, cost-
effective airline to IAG, enabling us to develop our network using Dublin," IAG Chief Executive Willie Walsh said in 
a statement. Donohoe said Aer Lingus did not foresee any compulsory redundancies despite the potential loss of 
50 jobs next year and said the airline could add up to 635 new jobs by 2020. The government will spend the 335 
million euros it receives on infrastructure projects, he added. Ryanair still has to declare its hand. It declined to 
comment again on Tuesday on whether it would accept an offer by IAG for its 30 percent stake. Aer Lingus, whose 
shares closed 1 percent higher at 2.39 euros on Tuesday, welcomed the decision, reiterating that it was a 
compelling transaction for the former flag carrier. The government, which has been urged by opposition parties and 
trade unions to reject the IAG offer and also faced objections to it from some government MPs, had said that 
Ryanair's attitude was key to its decision. Aer Lingus' main trade union, IMPACT, repeated after the announcement 
Irish government backs sale of Aer Lingus to IAG Irish governmen...
that the deal was bad for workers. A second major union, SIPTU, said it wanted commitments on compulsory 
redundancies and outsourcing. Ireland's ruling coalition will put the decision to a vote in parliament as early as 
today. While it has a large majority capable of easily approving the deal, it risks some unhappy backbench MPs 
voting against the government. In a joint statement, TDs from the Labour Party previously opposed to the sale - 
known as the "Gang of 8" as they represent almost a quarter of the junior government party's lower house of 
representatives - said the deal was a positive outcome. Two TDs from Fine Gael, who had previously expressed 
reservations about the deal, told Reuters they would likely vote through the sale. (Reuters) Source: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Still shirty at 30
Still shirty at 30
Financial Times (London, England)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 20
Length: 266 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
A 30th birthday bears with it the danger of respectability. Ryanair is no exception to that rule. Chief executive 
Michael O'Leary has toned down the braggadocio that alienated some customers. Full-year post-tax profits 66 per 
cent higher at EUR867m proclaim the virtues of the Irish airline's low-cost model compared with rivals as loudly as 
Mr O'Leary ever could.
Further proof of maturation is that Ryanair has increased the number of "primary" airports it flies to. The term 
means the runway is close to a big city on the map, not just in the minds of Ryanair's marketing department.
Investors liked these numbers partly because unit costs before fuel were flat, despite new routes to destinations 
that are costlier, such as Rome Fiumicino. They were also impressed that the crucial bums-on-seats quotient rose 
from 83 to 88 per cent. This fosters confidence that Ryanair can take the figure to 90 per cent this year, when the 
airline expects to make post-tax profits of EUR940m to EUR970m.
For once, analysts' predictions of steadily rising profits appear justified, given scope for Ryanair to go on eating the 
in-flight lunches of the likes of Lufthansa, worried owner of a EUR10.2bn pension scheme deficit.
The fate of Ryanair's 29.8 per cent stake in Aer Lingus is something of a sideshow in comparison. Nevertheless Mr 
O'Leary railed against the decree of UK competition watchdogs that he should sell shares which International 
Airlines Group would gladly buy. A chap has to let off steam that way if he can't make jokes about portly folk and 
the Manneken Pis any more.
Still shirty at 30
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com 
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair profits rise as caution prevails Travel & leisure: Results
Ryanair profits rise as caution prevails; Travel & leisure: Results
Financial Times (London, England)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 562 words
Byline: Nathalie Thomas, Peter Wells and Jane Wild
Highlight: Budget carrier warns of 'irrational' pricing from competition in next year
Body
Ryanair has delivered a full-year result slightly ahead of expectations after a customer service overhaul, but 
remains cautious on the outlook for the coming year in the face of potentially "irrational" competition.
In its 30th anniversary year, the budget carrier increased its net profit 66 per cent to EUR867m in the 12 months to 
March 31 from EUR523m a year earlier, which is a touch ahead of previous guidance. Revenue grew 12 per cent to 
EUR5.65bn on an 11 per cent rise in passenger numbers to 90.6m.
Ryanair said it expected traffic to grow 10 per cent this financial year but "it would be foolish not to expect some 
irrational pricing response from competitors who cannot compete with our lowest costs and fares".
The airline's shares jumped 5.2 per cent to EUR11.45 on the news.
Michael O'Leary , chief executive, said the performance demonstrated the "strength of Ryanair's lowest fare/lowest 
cost model which has been transformed by the success of our Always Getting Better customer experience 
programme".
At its third-quarter update in February, Ryanair sweetened its full-year net profit guidance to EUR840m-EUR850m 
from EUR810m-EUR830m previously. But shareholders were rattled by a warning that any growth in profits in 2016 
Ryanair profits rise as caution prevails Travel & leisure: Results
would be "modest" as it hedged its fuel early, at $92 a barrel, whereas some of its competitors - who are not able to 
hedge in advance - would be able to benefit from the sharp slide in oil prices since mid-June last year.
This, Ryanair warned, was likely to lead to an even more competitive price environment as rivals used the savings 
to lower their fares. Ryanair said that even with the benefit of lower oil, aircraft and financing costs, the group may 
suffer periods of fare and yield weakness, especially during the winter.
"This is why our yield guidance remains cautious at broadly flat in the first half of the year but down 4 per cent to 8 
per cent in the second half for a forecast full-year yield decline of 2 per cent," it concluded.
If that decline proves accurate, Ryanair reckons that lower unit costs in the 2016 financial year should still allow a 
10 per cent improvement in profits, to a range of EUR940m to EUR970m for the year ended March 31, 2016.
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said that "despite the usual note of caution on yields, especially for the winter, 
management's guidance was relatively encouraging". He added: "Current consensus is slightly above the top end 
of management's guidance range, but we would expect the market to continue to aim ahead."
The colourful low-cost airline, once derided for its poor customer service, has been trying to persuade passengers it 
has turned over a new leaf with a revised strategy that allows passengers to take on board an extra small item of 
carry-on baggage. The company's website has also been overhauled to make it quicker and easier to book tickets.
But Ryanair has also been expanding aggressively in the European short-haul market as it aims to fulfil a goal of 
transporting 160m passengers a year by 2024. The carrier has been launching flights to new destinations but has 
also increased frequencies to destinations popular with business travellers.
More of its flights now go to what is referred to in the industry as "primary" airports rather than smaller airports 
further from city centres, which used to be at the heart of Ryanair's strategy.
See Lex and Lombard
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair 's brand overhaul begins to boost sales
Ryanair's brand overhaul begins to boost sales
City A.M.
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 246 words
Byline: CHARLOTTE HENRY
Body
RYANAIR yesterday announced that its profit for the fiscal year 2015 had soared by 66 per cent from the year 
before, and said it took more from ticket sales than the year before too.
The Irish budget airline, which is celebrating its 30th birthday this year, announced it made (EURO)867m (£615m) 
in profit for the year ending 31 March. Its revenue for the same period increased by 12 per cent from March 2014 to 
(EURO)5.65bn . The growing profits come as Ryanair has given itself something of a makeover, and is trying to 
appear a more friendly company. Executives hailed the customer service improvement programme which is now in 
its second year.
Ryanair enjoyed greater passenger capacity in their aircraft - a critical factor for an airline reliant on flying full planes 
to be profitable. Its load factor increased from 83 per cent in 2014, to 88 per cent in 2015. The firm is projecting the 
figure, which can be translated to mean fuller planes, can hit 90 per cent by March 2016.
Chief financial officer Neil Sorahan said Ryanair had been impacted by April's French air traffic control strike, to the 
tune of (EURO)5m.
Rival budget carrier Easyjet remains a clear target for Ryanair. Its executives cited figures that showed Ryanair is in 
second place in terms of UK market share currently, but they are confident growth means it can overtake Easyjet in 
the UK. "It's just something that will happen by default," commented Sorahan.
Ryanair shares ended the day up 5.13 per cent.
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
Ryanair 's brand overhaul begins to boost sales
End of Document
Ryan high
Ryan high
Financial Times (London, England)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 358 words
Body
Never mind service, give passengers a bargain and they will keep coming back. As long as that was the case, 
Ryanair saw little need to project its softer side. The budget carrier warned yesterday of " irrational " price 
competition from rivals seizing on lower fuel costs. So much bluster. Yet - ironically - it is rational competition from 
the likes of easyJet that led to Ryanair adding frills to its no-frills service. And those changes have worked: it carried 
a record 91m passengers in the year to March , and profit rose two-thirds.
Can it keep up the momentum? The shares trade at a premium to rivals, but yesterday's 6 per cent price rise 
suggests plenty of confidence in the company. And Ryanair's own cautious optimism does not look out of place. 
True, it has hedged nine-tenths of its fuel purchases this year at a painful $92 a barrel (against a market price of 
$63). So it looks to have less wiggle room than less-hedged IAG. But not all hedges work badly for Ryanair . The 
company generates much of its income in euros but buys fuel in dollars. It has hedged the exchange rate at $1.33 
per euro, against a market rate of $1.09.
Price competition will still hurt - it expects its average winter fares to fall 4-8 per cent. But better service will help. 
Ryanair's website update, business-friendly schedules to primary airports, allocated seats and extra cabin baggage 
translate into more passengers, and 88 per cent of seats being filled. Apply the volume gains from those changes to 
Ryanair's low cost base (excluding fuel, costs were flat last year), add its ability to push up average fares and other 
revenue and it is easy to see why its net margin rose to 15 per cent from 10 a year ago. That is serious wiggle 
room.
Ryan high
Consider then its robust financial position and access to long-term, low-cost funding to keep adding fuel-efficient 
aircraft to its fleet. Its guidance of 100m passengers next year looks plausible. So too does a 10 per cent increase 
in profit - the midpoint of its guidance.
This is not an airline slowing down. With its discovery that a little love goes a long way, Ryanair has realised that 
market share is its to lose. 
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to open new C-check maintenance base at Wroclaw Airport
Ryanair to open new C-check maintenance base at Wroclaw Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday 6:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 244 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will open its first Polish C-check maintenance base at Wroclaw 
Airport in March 2016.
Body
Construction on the Wroclaw Aircraft Maintenance Services (WAMS) hangar will begin in November and the facility 
will create up to 150 high-tech jobs when completed, including licensed engineers, mechanics and support staff, as 
Ryanair invests over E6m at Wroclaw Airport. A dedicated heavy maintenance facility, WAMS will deliver 'C-check' 
maintenance for Ryanair's fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft and will consist of a 2 bay modern purpose built hangar 
facility with the option of further expansion. 
As part of its on-going commitment, Ryanair recently launched its winter 2015 schedule at Wroclaw (where it has 
based 2 aircraft), with a new sun route to Tenerife and 16 routes in total, which will deliver 1m customers p.a. and 
support 1,000 "on-site" jobs at Wroclaw Airport this year. In Wroclaw, Ryanair's Chief Operations Officer, Mick 
Hickey said: "As Poland's biggest airline, Ryanair is pleased to announce our first Polish heavy maintenance base 
as we invest a further E6m at Wroclaw, which was made possible through the help and support of the airport. 
Wroclaw Aircraft Maintenance Services (WAMS) will open in March 2016, and create up to 150 high-tech jobs. 
"Poland is a significant growth market for Ryanair and Wroclaw is a fantastic location with opportunities to attract, 
train and employ local skilled manpower to support this exciting project. We look forward to growing tourism, traffic 
and jobs at our Wroclaw base in the coming months and years."
Load-Date: June 4, 2015
End of Document
As Ryanair 's profits soar, are analysts right to attribute it to its new customer-friendly policy?
As Ryanair's profits soar, are analysts right to attribute it to its new 
customer-friendly policy?
City A.M.
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 351 words
Body
YES Milorad Ajder The penny dropped for Ryanair when it was forced to issue a profit warning in September 2013. 
Until then, it had prospered on the back of a no-nonsense offer, where price was the only thing that mattered to 
customers. All well and good until EasyJet showed that good service did not have to be a casualty of delivering 
competitive fares. So a company that seemed to revel in telling the customer where to get off started to re-evaluate 
its way of doing business. Chief executive Michael O'Leary, spotting the change in the wind, began the process of 
overhauling Ryanair's approach to customer service. He understood that its reputation was rapidly becoming a 
liability and that he needed to act fast, removing the adversarial perception of the brand and putting it back on the 
side of the customer. Growing profits indicate he has succeeded - the new "nicer" Ryanair has reaffirmed that well-
worn but still absolutely relevant adage: the customer is always king.
Milorad Ajder is managing director of the Ipsos Mori Reputation www.Centre.NO Joe Stelzer Ryanair's consumer-
friendly initiatives likely helped the airline record such a positive set of results, but these are not the only factors. 
The backdrop of stronger economic growth and the rise in business confidence last year would have helped 
increase the airline's load factors, particularly given its push to attract business passengers. Lower fuel costs also 
played a big part in the profit rise, with the impact of lower oil prices driving down Ryanair's overall costs by 5 per 
cent - a notable reduction. It will also have benefited from the more favourable sterling exchange rate against the 
euro. Service improvements, such as allowing more carry-on baggage and allocated seating, may have helped, but 
some fares and fees have been lowered too. I suspect, in passengers' minds, the benefit of the reduced charges 
outweighed the soft service improvements - and this classic combination of lower costs and lower fares driving 
volume worked a treat for the airline. Joe Stelzer is managing partner of Cavendish Corporate Finance.
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
As Ryanair 's profits soar, are analysts right to attribute it to its new customer-friendly policy?
End of Document
Rig count helps Weir to buck trend London
Rig count helps Weir to buck trend; London
Financial Times (London, England)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 19
Length: 392 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Positive signs from North America's shale producers contributed to Weir Group 's outperformance of a falling 
market yesterday.
The pumpmaker hit a six-month high, up 3.4 per cent to £20.02, in belated response to data from Baker Hughes on 
Friday that suggested US rig numbers had levelled. Only two horizontal rigs were taken out of service last week, the 
smallest change since December.
"The US rig count appears poised to bottom imminently," said Deutsche Bank, which saw pressure pump 
specialists best placed to gain from a "very modest and gradual" recovery.
Rig forecasts for 2015 were about 15 per cent lower than the current level, one broker said, so Weir could deliver 
year-end earnings of about 90p per share against an 83p consensus forecast.
A stronger dollar meant natural resources stocks weighed on the wider market. The FTSE 100 was down 1.2 per 
cent, off 82.73 points to 6,948.99.
Gold slipped to a two-week low. Fresnillo lost 3.5 per cent to 736p and Randgold was down 3.5 per cent to 
£46.11.
Oil's slide carried Royal Dutch Shell B lower by 2.3 per cent to £19.54, its weakest since 2011.
Rig count helps Weir to buck trend London
ITV edged 0.2 per cent lower at 266.9p following reports that it had called off a potential purchase of Weinstein's 
television production unit, which had a price tag of up to $950m.
Royal Mail hit an 11-month high, up 3.6 per cent to 521.5p. Cantor took the stock off its "sell" list, saying low growth 
was reflected in the stock's 30 per cent discount to the sector.
EasyJet took on 1.6 per cent to £16.16 after rival Ryanair guided for improved revenue per seat over the summer 
and said concerns about excess European short-haul capacity had been overplayed. Ryanair's London-listed 
shares advanced 5.1 per cent to EUR11.48.
Smurfit Kappa drifted 0.3 per cent lower to EUR28.36 even after Goldman Sachs started coverage of the 
packaging maker with a "buy" rating.
Plus500 , a contracts for difference broker, rallied 14.9 per cent to 285p after Odey Asset Management said it had 
raised its stake above 19 per cent.
The stock has slumped this month after it emerged that the Financial Conduct Authority had told it to freeze UK 
accounts.
Odey was also buying Tungsten , the invoice-financing group that last week placed shares after talk of a squeeze 
on short-term capital. Tungsten rallied 16 per cent to 112p, with Odey raising its stake above 15 per cent.
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Rig count helps pumpmaker Weir to buck trend London
Rig count helps pumpmaker Weir to buck trend; London
Financial Times (London, England)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 29
Length: 482 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Positive signs from North America's shale producers contributed to Weir Group 's outperformance of a falling 
market yesterday.
The pumpmaker hit a six-month high, up 3.4 per cent to £20.02, in belated response to data from Baker Hughes on 
Friday that suggested US rig numbers had levelled. Only two horizontal rigs were taken out of service last week, the 
smallest change since December.
"The US rig count appears poised to bottom imminently," said Deutsche Bank, which saw pressure pump 
specialists best placed to gain from a "very modest and gradual" recovery.
Rig forecasts for 2015 were about 15 per cent lower than the current level, one broker said, and with the resultant 
stabilisation Weir could deliver year-end earnings of about 90p per share against an 83p consensus forecast.
A stronger dollar meant natural resources stocks weighed on the wider market. The FTSE 100 was down 1.2 per 
cent, off 82.73 points to 6,948.99.
Gold slipped to a two-week low. Fresnillo lost 3.5 per cent to 736p and Randgold was down 3.5 per cent to 
£46.11.
Oil's slide carried Royal Dutch Shell B lower by 2.3 per cent to £19.54, its weakest since 2011.
Rig count helps pumpmaker Weir to buck trend London
ITV edged down 0.2 per cent to 266.9p following reports that it had called off a potential purchase of Weinstein's 
television production unit, which had a price tag of up to $950m.
Royal Mail hit an 11-month high, up 3.6 per cent to 521.5p. Cantor took the stock off its "sell" list, saying low growth 
was reflected in its 30 per cent discount to the sector.
EasyJet took on 1.6 per cent to £16.16 after Ryanair guided for improved revenue per seat over the summer and 
said concerns about excess European short-haul capacity had been overplayed. Ryanair's London-listed shares 
advanced 5.1 per cent to EUR11.48.
Smurfit Kappa drifted 0.3 per cent lower to EUR28.36 even after Goldman Sachs started coverage of the 
packaging maker with a "buy" rating.
"We expect more . . . consolidation within the European packaging sector over the coming years to drive improved 
pricing power, margins and shareholder returns," said the broker. It saw Smurfit as predator rather than prey, 
however, adding: "Potential [mergers and acquisitions are] not limited to bolt-ons, in our view."
Plus500 , a contracts for difference broker, rallied 14.9 per cent to 285p after Odey Asset Management said it had 
raised its stake above 19 per cent. Odey bought 2.5m Plus500 shares, taking its total purchases for May to 6.6m. 
The stock has slumped this month after it emerged that the Financial Conduct Authority had told it to freeze UK 
accounts because its identity checks had been too lax, and as short sellers questioned its business model and 
accounting methods.
Odey was also buying Tungsten , the invoice-financing group that last week placed shares after talk of a squeeze 
on short-term capital. Tungsten rallied 16 per cent to 112p, with Odey raising its stake above 15 per cent.
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus is cleared for BA boss' takeover as Ireland agrees to sell
Aer Lingus is cleared for BA boss' takeover as Ireland agrees to sell
City A.M.
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 223 words
Byline: JESSICA MORRIS AND CHRIS PAPADOPOULLOS
Body
THE IRISH government last night agreed to sell its 25 per cent in Aer Lingus to British Airways owner International 
Consolidated Airlines (IAG) after many setbacks.
The Irish airline's board recommended IAG's proposed (EURO)1.36bn (£961bn) offer in February, but it still needs 
support from the other main shareholder, Ryanair, which has previously voiced its support for earlier bids.
If the deal completes it will bring Aer Lingus back under the leadership of Willie Walsh, IAG's chief executive. Walsh 
was boss at Aer Lingus from 2001 until 2005.
"Acquiring Aer Lingus would add a fourth competitive, cost effective airline to IAG, enabling us to develop our 
network using Dublin," Walsh said in a statement.
Aer Lingus rejected IAG's two previous offers saying that it had "fundamentally undervalued" the business in 
making its initial offer.
There were also political obstacles amid Irish politicians' worries over job losses as well as a loss of connections 
between Irish airports and Heathrow.
"There's a number of extremely important changes that have led to this decision by government today," transport 
minister Paschal Donohoe said yesterday.
He said he did not foresee any redundancies and that another 635 jobs could be created by 2020, and added that 
the government would spend the (EURO)335m it receives on infrastructure projects.
Aer Lingus is cleared for BA boss' takeover as Ireland agrees to sell
Graphic
 
Ex-Aer Lingus boss and IAG chief exec Willie Walsh
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
End of Document
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
Citywire
May 27, 2015 Wednesday 4:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 637 words
Body
Bid developments, broker upgrades and an easing in the worries over Greece helped the UK stock market bounce 
back from yesterday's fall.
The FTSE 100 index rallied 98 points or 1.4% to 7,047, led by CRH (CRH), the Irish building materials group, which 
advanced 3.7% to £18.41 as it clinched a deal to buy 6.5 billion of assets from Swiss and French rivals Holcim 
(HOLN.VX) and Lafarge (LAFP.PA) who are merging.
Imperial Tobacco (IMT), which had earlier led the FTSE, rose 3.5% to £33.99 after US rival Reynolds American 
(RAI.N) won regulatory approval for its bid to buy Lorillard (LO.N).
The US Federal Trade Commission waved through the merger of the world's second and third largest tobacco 
companies on condition that Reynolds, maker of Camel and Pall Mall cigarettes, sells its Winston, Kool, Salem and 
Maverick brands to Imperial.
In the US there was a positive opening on Wall Street with the S&P 500 rising 0.6% to 2,117 after Europe closed 
higher with the FTSEurofirst300 22 points or 1.4% higher at 1,625.
Back in London the M&A theme continued as International Consolidated Airlines (ICAG) flew 19p or 3.5% higher to 
563.5p after the Irish government agreed to sell its 25% stake in Aer Lingus (AERL.I), up 1.8%. This allows the 
British Airways owner to formally launch its 1.36 billion bid for the Irish airline, although it needs to convince Ryanair 
(RYAN.MX) to sell its 30% stake in the company. Analysts said buying Aer Lingus would enable ICAG to expand its 
transatlantic service from Dublin.
Weir (WEIR) shed some of yesterday's gains, down 0.5% to £19.73 after Deutsche Bank downgraded the pump 
and valves group to 'hold' from 'buy' in response to recent gains in the stock as the reduction in operational oil rigs 
in the US tapers off. Yesterday the shares rose over 3% after an upgrade from analysts at Jefferies.
The mid-market FTSE 250 index gained 142 points, or 0.8%, to 18,240 after a rash of analyst upgrades bolstered 
share prices.
Beazley (BEZG) jumped 7% to 303p as JP Morgan analysts upgraded the house builder to 'overweight' from 
'neutral' and raised their price target to 308p from 255p.
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
Hiscox (HSX) hardened 3.8% to 863p as analysts at the investment bank also raised the Lloyds insurer to 
'overweight' from 'neutral' and lifted their target price to 950p.
Zoopla Property Group (ZPLAZ) gained 2.7% to 239p as Credit Suisse raised its price target to 290p from 225p and 
gave the estate agency portal an 'outperform' rating.
But Brewin Dolphin (BRW) tumbled over 10% to 315p after Peel Hunt and Numis both cut the wealth manager to 
'hold' from 'buy' after a strong run in the shares before today's half-year results. These showed a 9% rise in 
adjusted pre-tax profits to £33 million with a further improvement in margins.
De La Rue (DLAR) was another big faller, down 8.4% to 507p, after the bank note printer posted a 22% fall in 
annual profits and warned that the weak euro was helping its competitors.
On currency markets the pound edged back from its recent high against the single currency as the Queen's Speech 
set out the government's legislative programme including plans for a referendum on European Union membership.
Partnership Assurance (PA) was an early leader on the FTSE Small Cap index, although it pegged back gains to 
close 2.4% up at 138.75p after a quarterly sales update showed the specialist annuity provider coping with the 
impact of last year's pension freedom reforms, although they have drastically cut demand for its products.
Among investment trusts and closed-end funds, the main movers were:
Macau Property Opportunities (MPO) up 2.7% to 218p; BlackRock Commodities Income (BRCI) down 1% to 89.8p; 
Invesco Asia (IAT) down 1.7% to 203.5p; Caledonia Investments (CLDN) up 30p or 1.3% to £24.11 after full-year 
results; TR Property (TRY) up 2p of 0.7% to 314p after its finals.
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
End of Document
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
Citywire
May 27, 2015 Wednesday 4:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 637 words
Body
Bid developments, broker upgrades and an easing in the worries over Greece helped the UK stock market bounce 
back from yesterday's fall.
The FTSE 100 index rallied 98 points or 1.4% to 7,047, led by CRH (CRH), the Irish building materials group, which 
advanced 3.7% to £18.41 as it clinched a deal to buy 6.5 billion of assets from Swiss and French rivals Holcim 
(HOLN.VX) and Lafarge (LAFP.PA) who are merging.
Imperial Tobacco (IMT), which had earlier led the FTSE, rose 3.5% to £33.99 after US rival Reynolds American 
(RAI.N) won regulatory approval for its bid to buy Lorillard (LO.N).
The US Federal Trade Commission waved through the merger of the world's second and third largest tobacco 
companies on condition that Reynolds, maker of Camel and Pall Mall cigarettes, sells its Winston, Kool, Salem and 
Maverick brands to Imperial.
In the US there was a positive opening on Wall Street with the S&P 500 rising 0.6% to 2,117 after Europe closed 
higher with the FTSEurofirst300 22 points or 1.4% higher at 1,625.
Back in London the M&A theme continued as International Consolidated Airlines (ICAG) flew 19p or 3.5% higher to 
563.5p after the Irish government agreed to sell its 25% stake in Aer Lingus (AERL.I), up 1.8%. This allows the 
British Airways owner to formally launch its 1.36 billion bid for the Irish airline, although it needs to convince Ryanair 
(RYAN.MX) to sell its 30% stake in the company. Analysts said buying Aer Lingus would enable ICAG to expand its 
transatlantic service from Dublin.
Weir (WEIR) shed some of yesterday's gains, down 0.5% to £19.73 after Deutsche Bank downgraded the pump 
and valves group to 'hold' from 'buy' in response to recent gains in the stock as the reduction in operational oil rigs 
in the US tapers off. Yesterday the shares rose over 3% after an upgrade from analysts at Jefferies.
The mid-market FTSE 250 index gained 142 points, or 0.8%, to 18,240 after a rash of analyst upgrades bolstered 
share prices.
Beazley (BEZG) jumped 7% to 303p as JP Morgan analysts upgraded the house builder to 'overweight' from 
'neutral' and raised their price target to 308p from 255p.
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
Hiscox (HSX) hardened 3.8% to 863p as analysts at the investment bank also raised the Lloyds insurer to 
'overweight' from 'neutral' and lifted their target price to 950p.
Zoopla Property Group (ZPLAZ) gained 2.7% to 239p as Credit Suisse raised its price target to 290p from 225p and 
gave the estate agency portal an 'outperform' rating.
But Brewin Dolphin (BRW) tumbled over 10% to 315p after Peel Hunt and Numis both cut the wealth manager to 
'hold' from 'buy' after a strong run in the shares before today's half-year results. These showed a 9% rise in 
adjusted pre-tax profits to £33 million with a further improvement in margins.
De La Rue (DLAR) was another big faller, down 8.4% to 507p, after the bank note printer posted a 22% fall in 
annual profits and warned that the weak euro was helping its competitors.
On currency markets the pound edged back from its recent high against the single currency as the Queen's Speech 
set out the government's legislative programme including plans for a referendum on European Union membership.
Partnership Assurance (PA) was an early leader on the FTSE Small Cap index, although it pegged back gains to 
close 2.4% up at 138.75p after a quarterly sales update showed the specialist annuity provider coping with the 
impact of last year's pension freedom reforms, although they have drastically cut demand for its products.
Among investment trusts and closed-end funds, the main movers were:
Macau Property Opportunities (MPO) up 2.7% to 218p; BlackRock Commodities Income (BRCI) down 1% to 89.8p; 
Invesco Asia (IAT) down 1.7% to 203.5p; Caledonia Investments (CLDN) up 30p or 1.3% to £24.11 after full-year 
results; TR Property (TRY) up 2p of 0.7% to 314p after its finals.
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
End of Document
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
Citywire
May 27, 2015 Wednesday 4:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 637 words
Body
Bid developments, broker upgrades and an easing in the worries over Greece helped the UK stock market bounce 
back from yesterday's fall.
The FTSE 100 index rallied 98 points or 1.4% to 7,047, led by CRH (CRH), the Irish building materials group, which 
advanced 3.7% to £18.41 as it clinched a deal to buy 6.5 billion of assets from Swiss and French rivals Holcim 
(HOLN.VX) and Lafarge (LAFP.PA) who are merging.
Imperial Tobacco (IMT), which had earlier led the FTSE, rose 3.5% to £33.99 after US rival Reynolds American 
(RAI.N) won regulatory approval for its bid to buy Lorillard (LO.N).
The US Federal Trade Commission waved through the merger of the world's second and third largest tobacco 
companies on condition that Reynolds, maker of Camel and Pall Mall cigarettes, sells its Winston, Kool, Salem and 
Maverick brands to Imperial.
In the US there was a positive opening on Wall Street with the S&P 500 rising 0.6% to 2,117 after Europe closed 
higher with the FTSEurofirst300 22 points or 1.4% higher at 1,625.
Back in London the M&A theme continued as International Consolidated Airlines (ICAG) flew 19p or 3.5% higher to 
563.5p after the Irish government agreed to sell its 25% stake in Aer Lingus (AERL.I), up 1.8%. This allows the 
British Airways owner to formally launch its 1.36 billion bid for the Irish airline, although it needs to convince Ryanair 
(RYAN.MX) to sell its 30% stake in the company. Analysts said buying Aer Lingus would enable ICAG to expand its 
transatlantic service from Dublin.
Weir (WEIR) shed some of yesterday's gains, down 0.5% to £19.73 after Deutsche Bank downgraded the pump 
and valves group to 'hold' from 'buy' in response to recent gains in the stock as the reduction in operational oil rigs 
in the US tapers off. Yesterday the shares rose over 3% after an upgrade from analysts at Jefferies.
The mid-market FTSE 250 index gained 142 points, or 0.8%, to 18,240 after a rash of analyst upgrades bolstered 
share prices.
Beazley (BEZG) jumped 7% to 303p as JP Morgan analysts upgraded the house builder to 'overweight' from 
'neutral' and raised their price target to 308p from 255p.
FTSE bid higher as M&A theme grips markets
Hiscox (HSX) hardened 3.8% to 863p as analysts at the investment bank also raised the Lloyds insurer to 
'overweight' from 'neutral' and lifted their target price to 950p.
Zoopla Property Group (ZPLAZ) gained 2.7% to 239p as Credit Suisse raised its price target to 290p from 225p and 
gave the estate agency portal an 'outperform' rating.
But Brewin Dolphin (BRW) tumbled over 10% to 315p after Peel Hunt and Numis both cut the wealth manager to 
'hold' from 'buy' after a strong run in the shares before today's half-year results. These showed a 9% rise in 
adjusted pre-tax profits to £33 million with a further improvement in margins.
De La Rue (DLAR) was another big faller, down 8.4% to 507p, after the bank note printer posted a 22% fall in 
annual profits and warned that the weak euro was helping its competitors.
On currency markets the pound edged back from its recent high against the single currency as the Queen's Speech 
set out the government's legislative programme including plans for a referendum on European Union membership.
Partnership Assurance (PA) was an early leader on the FTSE Small Cap index, although it pegged back gains to 
close 2.4% up at 138.75p after a quarterly sales update showed the specialist annuity provider coping with the 
impact of last year's pension freedom reforms, although they have drastically cut demand for its products.
Among investment trusts and closed-end funds, the main movers were:
Macau Property Opportunities (MPO) up 2.7% to 218p; BlackRock Commodities Income (BRCI) down 1% to 89.8p; 
Invesco Asia (IAT) down 1.7% to 203.5p; Caledonia Investments (CLDN) up 30p or 1.3% to £24.11 after full-year 
results; TR Property (TRY) up 2p of 0.7% to 314p after its finals.
Load-Date: June 2, 2015
End of Document
Ireland backs sale of Aer Lingus stake; Travel & leisure
Ireland backs sale of Aer Lingus stake; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 520 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin and Peggy Hollinger in London
Highlight: Cabinet support for IAG offer for airline holding to be discussed by Dáil
Body
The Irish government has given its backing to the sale of Aer Lingus after a marathon cabinet meeting supported an 
offer for the state's 25 per cent stake in the flag carrier from International Airlines Group.
The cabinet's decision comes after months of negotiations aimed at quelling public and political disquiet over the 
bid's implications for jobs and flights to and from Ireland.
Paschal Donohoe, Ireland's minister for transport, said that IAG's offer was "in the best interests of the travelling 
public, Aer Lingus and its employees, the Irish tourism industry and the Irish economy". To win the government's 
backing, IAG has given seven-year guarantees on valuable routes into Heathrow, London, from Dublin, Cork and 
Shannon on condition that airport charges would not increase beyond certain levels.
Willie Walsh , IAG's chief executive, initially said he would guarantee Aer Lingus's 23 lucrative take-off and landing 
slots at Heathrow only for five years. This has been one of the biggest hurdles to government approval. Belfast 
routes are still only guaranteed for five years.
Mr Walsh said Aer Lingus, Ireland and IAG would "all benefit from this deal".
Ireland backs sale of Aer Lingus stake; Travel & leisure
The Dáil, Ireland's parliament, will debate the cabinet's decision today. If the Dáil approves the disposal, the way 
will be open for IAG to formally launch the offer. The bid remains conditional on acceptance by Ryanair, Aer 
Lingus's 29 per cent shareholder, and on EU approval.
IAG, which owns British Airways and Iberia, first approached Aer Lingus with a takeover offer at the end of last year 
and confirmed it had made an indicative offer in January that valued the airline at EUR1.36bn.
IBI Corporate Finance and Credit Suisse, the advisers employed by the Irish government to review the offer of 
EUR2.55 per share in cash and a special dividend, recommended that it be accepted.
The government's approval brings to an end six months of delicate negotiations between Irish ministers and Mr 
Walsh over the terms on which the Aer Lingus stake would be sold. Mr Walsh, a former boss of Aer Lingus, said at 
a lunch in Dublin last week that he was "in no hurry" to get the deal done.
The main attraction for IAG and Mr Walsh is the prospect that Aer Lingus can expand its transatlantic services from 
Dublin airport, which, unlike Heathrow, has spare runway capacity. But the deal was always dependent on winning 
agreement on maintaining Aer Lingus's Heathrow slots for flights to and from Ireland.
In setting out its plans for Aer Lingus, IAG has estimated that by 2020 a combined group could deliver up to 2.4m 
more passengers, add four new destinations in North America and eight new aircraft to its fleet. Two of these new 
transatlantic services would be added in summer 2016.
IAG has also given comfort on jobs. It assured the government that by the end of 2016 there would be net 
employment growth at Aer Lingus of approximately 150 employees and that by 2020, growth at the Irish carrier 
could lead to the creation of up to 635 new jobs.
IAG also plans to sustain and grow Aer Lingus's business at Knock Airport, by maintaining the service to London 
Gatwick.
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
FTSE bid higher as Imperial Tobacco leads the pack
FTSE bid higher as Imperial Tobacco leads the pack
Citywire
May 27, 2015 Wednesday 11:11 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 589 words
Body
Bid developments and broker upgrades helped the UK stock market bounce back from yesterday's fall.
The FTSE 100 index rallied 42 points or 0.6% to 6,991, led by Imperial Tobacco (IMT) which rose 2.2% to £33.57 
after US rival Reynolds American (RAI.N) won regulatory approval for its bid to buy Lorillard (LO.N).
The US Federal Trade Commission waved through the merger of the world's second and third largest tobacco 
companies on condition that Reynolds, maker of Camel and Pall Mall cigarettes, sells its Winston, Kool, Salem and 
Maverick brands to Imperial.
CRH (CRH), the Irish building materials group, advanced 2% as it clinched a deal to buy 6.5 billion of assets from 
Swiss and French rivals Holcim (HOLN.VX) and Lafarge (LAFP.PA) who are merging.
And International Consolidated Airlines (ICAG) gained 6.5p or 1.2% to 550.5p after the Irish government agreed to 
sell its 25% stake in Aer Lingus (AERL.I), up 1.8%. This allows the British Airways owner to formally launch its 1.36 
billion bid for the Irish airline, although it needs to convince Ryanair (RYAN.MX) to sell its 30% stake in the 
company. Analysts said buying Aer Lingus would enable ICAG to expand its transatlantic service from Dublin.
Weir (WEIR) shed most of yesterday's gains, down 1.5% to £19.73 after Deutsche Bank downgraded the pump and 
valves group to 'hold' from 'buy' in response to recent gains in the stock as the reduction in operational oil rigs in the 
US has tapered off. Yesterday the shares rose over 3% after an upgrade from analysts at Jefferies.
The mid-market FTSE 250 index powered ahead, up 50 points, or 0.3%, to 18,149 after a rash of analyst upgrades 
bolstered share prices.
Beazley (BEZG) jumped 3.7% to 293p as JP Morgan analysts upgraded the house builder to 'overweight' from 
'neutral' and raised their price target to 308p from 255p.
Hiscox (HSX) hardened 2.9% to 856p as analysts at the investment bank also raised the Lloyds insurer to 
'overweight' from 'neutral' and lifted their target price to 950p.
Zoopla Property Group (ZPLAZ) gained 2.3% to 239p as Credit Suisse raised its price target to 290p from 225p and 
gave the estate agency portal an 'outperform' rating.
FTSE bid higher as Imperial Tobacco leads the pack
But Brewin Dolphin (BRW) fell 3.8% to 339.5p after Peel Hunt and Numis cut the wealth manager to 'hold' from 
'buy' after a strong run in the shares before today's half-year results. These showed a 9% rise in adjusted pre-tax 
profits to £33 million with a further improvement in margins.
De La Rue (DLAR) was one of the day's biggest fallers, down 9% to 503p, after the bank note printer posted a 22% 
fall in annual profits and warned that the weak euro was helping its competitors.
On currency markets the pound edged back from its recent high against the single currency ahead of the Queen's 
Speech in which the government will state its plans for a referendum on European Union membership.
Partnership Assurance (PA) was a highlight among smaller companies, up 3.3% to 140p after a quarterly sales 
update showed the specialist annuity provider was coping with the impact of last year's pension freedom reforms, 
although they have drastically cut demand for its products.
Among investment trusts and closed-end funds, the main movers were:
Macau Property Opportunities (MPO) up 2.7% to 218p; BlackRock Commodities Income (BRCI) down 1.9% to 89p; 
Invesco Asia (IAT) down 1.7% to 203.5p; Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller (IPU) down 1.5% to 381.75p; Caledonia 
Investments (CLDN) up 17p or 0.7% to £23.98 after full-year results; TR Property (TRY) up 2p of 0.6% to 314p after 
its finals.
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
End of Document
EU regulators to decide on IAG, Aer Lingus deal by July 1 EU regulators t...
EU regulators to decide on IAG, Aer Lingus deal by July 1; EU regulators t...
Business World (Digest)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 119 words
Highlight: European Union antitrust regulators will decide by July 1 whether to clear British Airways-owner IAG's 
takeover bid for Irish peer Aer Lingus, the European Commission said on Wednesday.
Body
European Union antitrust regulators will decide by July 1 whether to clear British Airways-owner IAG's takeover bid 
for Irish peer Aer Lingus, the European Commission said on Wednesday.
IAG sought EU approval earlier on Wednesday, a filing on the Commission site showed.
The EU competition enforcer can either clear the deal unconditionally or extend the preliminary review by 10 
working days to examine proposed concessions. It can also open a full-scale investigation of about four months if it 
has serious concerns.
The Irish government agreed on Tuesday to sell its 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus. The deal still needs backing 
from Ryanair, which owns 30 percent of Aer Lingus. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 1, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces winter 2015 schedule at Newcastle
Ryanair announces winter 2015 schedule at Newcastle
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 27, 2015 Wednesday 6:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 132 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced its winter 2015 schedule at Newcastle with a new route to Alicante 
which will operate three times weekly from October 27, 2015 as well as a route to Dublin which will operate nine 
times weekly.
Body
Customers in North East England and visitors can now choose from 2 routes at Newcastle airport next winter, while 
enjoying allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile 
boarding passes, and Ryanair's Family Extra and Business Plus services, making Ryanair the ideal choice for 
families, business and leisure travelers. Ryanair's Sales and Marketing Manager, Maria Macken said: "To celebrate 
the announcement of our Newcastle winter 2015 schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our 
European network from GBP19.99 for travel in June, which are available for booking until midnight Mon (18 May). 
Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid 
missing out."
Load-Date: June 4, 2015
End of Document
Irish government agrees to sell its Aer Lingus stake to IAG
Irish government agrees to sell its Aer Lingus stake to IAG
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 26, 2015 Tuesday 9:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 615 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Ireland intends to sell its 25 percent stake in the Aer Lingus airline to IAG after receiving guarantees 
that the parent company of British Airways will increase employment and air links with the United States, the 
government announced Tuesday.
IAG, which also operates Spain's Iberia airline, confirmed revised terms of its takeover offer in tandem with Ireland's 
Cabinet announcement. It confirmed promises to keep Aer Lingus as a separate brand, to reserve its valuable 
landing slots at London's Heathrow Airport for Aer Lingus use, and several other conditions demanded by the 
government in exchange for its acceptance.
IAG first launched its takeover bid in December and, as part of its latest offer of 2.50 euros ($2.72) per share, 
values the Dublin-based carrier with the trademark shamrock logo at 1.4 billion euros ($1.52 billion). The 
government, which floated the other three-quarters of Aer Lingus on the British and Irish stock markets in 2006, 
would receive 350 million euros ($380 million).
But to succeed, the IAG offer still must clear many hurdles. The biggest could be to persuade the Irish airline's 
largest shareholder - rival Dublin-based carrier Ryanair - to accept the price.
Ryanair, which built up a 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus as part of three hostile takeover bids since 2006, said 
before Tuesday's announcement it had received no communications from IAG. The offer, if taken, would allow 
Ryanair to recoup most of its paper losses from its investment in Aer Lingus. But as Europe's most profitable and 
cash-rich airline, Ryanair can afford to stand firm and demand more.
The government decision also will require majority approval by parliament. A vote is tentatively scheduled for 
Wednesday. The two-party government enjoys a strong majority, but support from the coalition's smaller left-wing 
party, union-linked Labour, is uncertain.
The proposed takeover also faces months of regulatory scrutiny from competition authorities in Ireland, Britain and 
the European Union. Those authorities previously opposed Ryanair's bid on the grounds Ireland required at least 
two strong brands in competition.
Irish government agrees to sell its Aer Lingus stake to IAG
Aer Lingus chairman Colm Barrington said the takeover, if completed, would give the marginally profitable airline to 
"reap the commercial and strategic benefits of being part of the much larger and globally diverse IAG Group and as 
a member of the oneworld alliance of 17 airlines." IAG ownership, he forecast, would "accelerate growth across our 
network, enhance Ireland's position as a natural gateway connecting Europe and North America, give Irish tourism 
access to major traffic flows and customer loyalty programs, and provide better access for business interests and to 
cargo flows."
Ireland's business and tourism chiefs welcomed the decision as offering an economic boon for Ireland, an island 
nation highly dependent on air links whose two main trading partners are Britain and the United States.
IAG said it would invest in Aer Lingus' already successful trans-Atlantic routes, adding four new North American 
destinations, as part of a strategic commitment to make Ireland a bigger hub for European-American tourist traffic. It 
also promised to keep running Aer Lingus' existing services between Irish airports and Heathrow for seven years.
Labor unions expressed reservations about security of jobs and benefits, but the government and IAG said the deal 
would require the Spanish-British company to honor existing contracts with Aer Lingus' unionized work force. IAG 
also pledged to increase employment by more than 700 positions by 2020.
___
This story has been corrected to show the name of the company making the takeover bid is IAG, not AIG.
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair beats forecasts again as annual profits rise 66 pct
Ryanair beats forecasts again as annual profits rise 66 pct
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 26, 2015 Tuesday 1:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 600 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Europe's leading budget airline Ryanair has beaten forecasts again, reporting full-year net profits of 
867 million euros ($949 million), 66 percent higher than the year before.
The Dublin-based airline said Tuesday it filled 88 percent of its seats, up 5 points, in the fiscal year ending in March. 
Sales rose 12 percent to 5.65 billion euros ($6.2 billion) chiefly because of relentless route expansion combined 
with the impact of the airline's 2014 decision to improve customer service, including introduction of a new flexible 
business-friendly ticket.
Shares in the airline surged 7.5 percent to 11.70 euros ($12.80) on the Irish Stock Exchange by midafternoon.
Ryanair unveiled a target for the fiscal year 2016 of between 940 million euros and 970 million euros. Many 
analysts said they expected Ryanair to beat that forecast, potentially breaching the 1 billion euro barrier, given that 
the airline raised its initial 2015 profit forecast five times - and even its final top target, 850 million euros, fell short of 
Tuesday's official result.
Davy Stockbrokers called Ryanair's forecast "very robust." The Dublin broker said it now expects Ryanair shares 
soon will reach 12 euros, a level last attained in February 2007 right before the airline conducted a 2-for-1 share 
split.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said advance bookings are running 4 percent higher than last year, which should 
help the carrier fill 90 percent of its seats in fiscal 2016.
Profits would be even higher were it not for Ryanair's policy of buying fuel contracts far in advance. That has locked 
in last year's much higher oil prices at an average of $92 a barrel through the spring of 2016. The airline says it's 
negotiated cheaper contracts averaging $69 a barrel thereafter.
Ryanair carried 90.6 million passengers in the fiscal year 2015, up 11 percent, and aims to break the 100 million 
mark this year.
Ryanair beats forecasts again as annual profits rise 66 pct
Average fares rose 1 euro to 47 euros, while the total revenue per customer remained flat at 62 euros, reflecting the 
sales of on-board food, drink and bingo cards as well as commissions on online purchase of hotel rooms and rental 
cars booked through its website.
The chief financial officer, Neil Sorahan, said Ryanair's decision to open services at more mainstream European 
airports and to create a flexible business-class ticket was helping to drive growth, particularly during the typically 
loss-making winter months. He noted that Tuesday's full-year results included a fourth-quarter profit of 22.8 million 
euros, the first January-March gain for the airline since 2007.
O'Leary said a key issue slowing Ryanair's growth is slow airport development for London. He called for the British 
government and regulators, which have debated the issue for years, to approve new runways at the capital's 
Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted airports. Ryanair doesn't use Heathrow, but Stansted is Ryanair's biggest 
European hub.
Asked whether Ryanair would connect to Heathrow and Paris' Charles de Gaulle airports, Sorahan said neither 
could meet the airline's key requirement of 25-minute turnarounds from landing to starting a new trip.
"The reality is we probably would circle around for 25 minutes, let alone get in and out of the airport within 25 
minutes," Sorahan said.
Ryanair shares have risen more than 60 percent in the past year, leading the European airline sector. Founded in 
1985 with a single Ireland-England turboprop route, the carrier today uses 320 Boeing 737s to serve 1,600 routes to 
30 countries in Europe and North Africa, and has orders for 383 more Boeings.
___
Online: http://investor.ryanair.com/
Load-Date: May 27, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair targets easyJet Ryanair targets...
Ryanair targets easyJet; Ryanair targets...
Business World (Digest)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 552 words
Highlight: Ryanair forecast a 10 percent rise in profit and passenger numbers in its current financial year as it 
targets more primary airports and improves its online offering to compete better with rivals such as easyJet and 
former flag carriers.
Body
Ryanair forecast a 10 percent rise in profit and passenger numbers in its current financial year as it targets more 
primary airports and improves its online offering to compete better with rivals such as easyJet and former flag 
carriers.
The success of its recent image makeover, however, means the Irish airline does not expect to have to slash prices 
to gain market share. After posting full-year profit up 66 percent, Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said average 
fares would remain broadly flat in the key summer months, while easyJet expects a 4 percent drop in revenue per 
seat in the three months to June.
Ryanair has made huge strides in catching up with rivals since launching its Always Getting Better campaign last 
year to shake off a reputation for terrible service. The scheme has included lower fees, flexible tickets for business 
travellers and a shift away from small regional airports.
The profit jump in the year to March 31 was on passenger numbers up 11 percent, compared with an original 
estimate of 4 percent. Its share price is up 67 percent from a year ago, against a fall of 2.6 percent for the Thomson 
Reuters European airline index "Even we have been surprised at how customers have responded to the customer 
improvements," O'Leary said in a conference call. He made repeated comparisons with easyJet, whose high 
profitability in 2013 prompted Ryanair to change its business model and target customers who are less price-
sensitive. Ryanair was hit less hard than easyJet by French air traffic control strikes in April, O'Leary said. The 
strikes cost Ryanair less than 5 million euros, he said, against the 25 million pound hit reported by easyJet. O'Leary 
also released a slide detailing how Ryanair had poached passengers on a number of London routes, including to 
Edinburgh, Glasgow, Lisbon and Cologne. "Increasingly we are competing and beating easyJet on service, both in 
terms of frequency, punctuality and customer experience, and going after that key business market," he said. 
Ryanair targets easyJet Ryanair targets...
Analysts and investors were more sceptical, pointing out that Ryanair and easyJet compete directly on less than 5 
percent of routes, a number that is closer to 30 percent when calculated by city pairs rather than airport pairs. While 
Ryanair has a clear cost advantage, it will take a long time to build up its position in key airports, Investec analyst 
Robert Murphy said. "EasyJet has been operating at these airports, not just since last year, but since the turn of the 
millennium." Some investors took fright when easyJet's warning about a drop in revenue per seat prompted 
suggestions that Ryanair would make aggressive price cuts. However, O'Leary said fares would be "broadly flat" in 
the six months to September, which he later clarified as falls of between 0 percent and 2 percent. Pauline 
McPherson, co-fund manager at the Kames Global Equity Fund, said that the biggest positive from Ryanair's 
results day was commentary that rivals were cutting routes rather than dropping fares, effectively conceding that 
they cannot compete. "This is now a travel offering that is far more comparable, in terms of route and passenger 
experience, with the flag carriers," she said. Ryanair shares were up 4.9 percent by 1515 GMT, against a 2 percent 
gain for easyJet. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 29, 2015
End of Document
Britain 's FTSE falls Britain 's FTSE ...
Britain's FTSE falls; Britain's FTSE ...
Business World (Digest)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 268 words
Highlight: Britain's top equity index fell on Tuesday, with banking stocks coming under pressure after regional 
election results in Spain put euro zone financials on the back foot, and energy shares tracking weaker crude oil 
prices.
Body
Britain's top equity index fell on Tuesday, with banking stocks coming under pressure after regional election results 
in Spain put euro zone financials on the back foot, and energy shares tracking weaker crude oil prices.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's People's Party suffered heavy losses in weekend local elections, throwing 
his re-election later this year into doubt and opening the door for the anti-austerity Podemos party.
Britain's blue-chip FTSE 100 index was down 0.7 percent at 6,981.40 points by 1413 GMT on the first session after 
a long weekend extended by Monday's public holiday.
Traders also cited concerns over Greek debt as keeping markets on edge. Greece intends to make good on its debt 
obligations but needs aid urgently to be able to do so, the government said on Monday. Oil and gas shares also 
weighed, with Royal Dutch Shell and BG Group both down 1.3 percent after oil prices fell due to a stronger dollar 
and on the possibility that U.S. shale oil producers could increase drilling activity. The UK energy index, down 1.4 
percent, also came under pressure due to a campaign for funds to divest holdings in energy companies. Among 
sharp gainers, Royal Mail hit a one-year high and was up 3.3 percent after Cantor Fitzgerald upgraded the stock to 
"hold" from "sell". Ryanair shares rose 4.6 percent after it announced profits rose 66 percent in the year to March. 
Its passenger numbers grew almost three times the targeted level on improved service and lower fares, with a more 
modest 10 percent profit growth forecast for this financial year. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 29, 2015
Britain 's FTSE falls Britain 's FTSE ...
End of Document
EU shares hit by setbacks EU shares hit b...
EU shares hit by setbacks; EU shares hit b...
Business World (Digest)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 304 words
Highlight: European shares fell on Tuesday, the first day of the trading week for several markets after a long 
holiday, with a local-election battering for Spain's government and Greece's ongoing debt drama offsetting bumper 
airline results.
Body
European shares fell on Tuesday, the first day of the trading week for several markets after a long holiday, with a 
local-election battering for Spain's government and Greece's ongoing debt drama offsetting bumper airline results.
At 0749 GMT, the pan-Europe FTSEurofirst 300 was down 0.4 percent. Spanish banks were among the biggest 
underperformers, with shares of Popular, Sabadell and Caixabank down 1.8 to 2.2 percent.
Although Monday's poor local election result for the Madrid government had already hit Spanish stocks on Monday, 
trading had been thin with bourses in London, Frankfurt and New York shut.
Tuesday also saw the first reaction to the vote from bond markets, with Spanish 10-year yields hitting their highest 
in nearly a week. The country's ruling PP party suffered its worst defeat in over 20 years in local elections, reflecting 
voter discontent at four years of austerity. Greece's volatile shares were higher despite the country's ongoing stand-
off with international creditors. Greece intends to make good on debt obligations but needs aid urgently to be able 
to do so, the government said on Monday. A rise in profits after a bumper year for Ryanair propelled the airline's 
stock almost 5 percent higher. Aer Lingus shares were also up after Ireland's prime minister said the government 
would discuss the sale of its stake in the airline. Shares of French telecoms group Altice fell more than 1 percent 
after bid rival Charter Communications neared an agreement to buy Time Warner Cable, people familiar with the 
matter said. Italy's Monte dei Paschi di Siena fell as much as 8 percent in early trade and were suspended from 
trading on the second day of the Italian bank's 3-billion euro cash call. Trading in the rights to buy into the share 
issue was also halted. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 29, 2015
EU shares hit by setbacks EU shares hit b...
End of Document
Ryanair profits up 66% Ryanair profits...
Ryanair profits up 66%; Ryanair profits...
Business World (Digest)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 424 words
Highlight: Ryanair's profits surged 66 percent in the year to March as passenger numbers grew almost three times 
the targeted level on improved service and lower fares, with a more modest 10 percent profit growth forecast for this 
financial year.
Body
Ryanair's profits surged 66 percent in the year to March as passenger numbers grew almost three times the 
targeted level on improved service and lower fares, with a more modest 10 percent profit growth forecast for this 
financial year.
Passenger numbers increased 11 percent to 90 million, compared with the 4 percent targeted at the start of the 
year, with 100 million expected to fly with the Irish airline in the current fiscal year.
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers said on Tuesday profit after tax hit 867 million euros and would 
reach between 940 million and 970 million this year. A Reuters poll of analysts had forecast profit of 866 million.
Management said most of the growth was down to its Always Getting Better programme aimed at turning round its 
reputation for poor customer service. Management credited the programme, which has brought in lower fees, 
flexible tickets for business travellers and a move away from small regional airports, for boosting average load 
factor -- a key industry measure -- by 5 percent in the year to March. "Always Getting Better is the key, it has been 
very well received," finance chief Neil Sorahan said in an interview. Sorahan said if expected "irrational fare cuts" by 
competitors don't materialise "maybe there is some upside" on the profit forecast, which Chief Executive Michael 
O'Leary described in a video presentation as "cautious." Ryanair said its fares would be "broadly flat" in the six 
months to September. Its main rival easyJet has said revenue per seat would be down by about four percentage 
points in the three months to June. Ryanair expects to increase passenger numbers by 10 percent in the year to 
March 2016, with around half of this at primary airports and about half at smaller regional airports. Forward 
bookings to September are on average 4 percent ahead of last year, it said. Ryanair's share price closed at 10.88 
euros on Monday, up 58 percent on a year ago. That compared with an increase of just 1 percent at easyJet and 3 
percent in the Thomson Reuters Europe Airlines Index. Ryanair again declined to comment on whether it planned 
Ryanair profits up 66% Ryanair profits...
to accept an offer by British Airways owner IAG for its 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus. The bid has stalled as IAG 
waits for the Irish government, which owns 25 percent of Aer Lingus, to commit to selling. The government has said 
Ryanair's attitude was key to its decision. "The Board of Ryanair will consider any offer from IAG on its merits, if or 
when it is received," O'Leary said. (Reuters) Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 29, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Cashes In On Improved Service With Profit Surge
Ryanair Cashes In On Improved Service With Profit Surge
International Business Times News
May 26, 2015 Tuesday 2:48 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 464 words
Body
May 26, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> 
Ryanair's profits surged 66 percent in the year to March as passenger numbers grew almost three times the 
targeted level on improved service and lower fares, with a more modest 10 percent profit growth forecast for this 
financial year.<nl/>
 Passenger numbers increased 11 percent to 90 million, compared with the 4 percent targeted at the start of the 
year, with 100 million expected to fly with the Irish airline in the current fiscal year. <nl/> Europe's largest airline by 
passenger numbers said on Tuesday profit after tax hit 867 million euros (615 million pounds) and would reach 
between 940 million and 970 million this year. A Reuters poll of analysts had forecast profit of 866 million.<nl/> 
Management said most of the growth was down to its Always Getting Better program aimed at turning round its 
reputation for poor customer service.<nl/> Management credited the program, which has brought in lower fees, 
flexible tickets for travelers and a move away from small regional airports, for boosting average load factor -- a key 
industry measure -- by 5 percent in the year to March.<nl/> "Always Getting Better is the key, it has been very well 
received," finance chief Neil Sorahan said in an interview. <nl/> Sorahan said if expected "irrational fare cuts" by 
competitors don't materialize "maybe there is some upside" on the profit forecast, which Chief Executive[1] Michael 
O'Leary described in a video presentation as "cautious."<nl/> Ryanair said its fares would be "broadly flat" in the six 
months to September. Its main rival easyJet has said revenue per seat would be down by about four percentage 
points in the three months to June.<nl/> Ryanair expects to increase passenger numbers by 10 percent in the year 
to March 2016, with around half of this at primary airports and about half at smaller regional airports. <nl/> Forward 
bookings to September are on average 4 percent ahead of last year, it said. <nl/> Ryanair's share price closed at 
10.88 euros on Monday, up 58 percent on a year ago. That compared with an increase of just 1 percent at easyJet 
and 3 percent in the Thomson Reuters Europe Airlines Index .<nl/> Ryanair again declined to comment on whether 
it planned to accept an offer by British Airways owner IAG for its 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus.<nl/> The bid has 
stalled as IAG waits for the Irish government, which owns 25 percent of Aer Lingus, to commit to selling. The 
government has said Ryanair's attitude was key to its decision. <nl/> "The Board of Ryanair will consider any offer 
from IAG on its merits, if or when it is received," O'Leary said.<nl/> [ 1]: http://uk.reuters.com/article/2015/05/26/uk-
ryanair-results-idUKKBN0OB0BQ20150526 
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
Ryanair Cashes In On Improved Service With Profit Surge
End of Document
UK Market Falls, But Ryanair Climbs On Results
UK Market Falls, But Ryanair Climbs On Results
RTT News (United States)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 335 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market fell on Tuesday, as concerns about Greece remained with the country expected to 
make a 300 million euros payment to the International Monetary Fund next week.
Sentiment was also impacted by political uncertainty in Spain, where Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular Party 
suffered its worst result in 20 years in a municipal election, as the voters punished his government for four years of 
austerity and a raft of corruption scandals before a general election due in November.
On a day of very little economic news, the quarterly Distributive Trades Survey from the Confederation of British 
Industry showed British retailers posted strong growth in sales this month and their outlook for sales and orders 
improved at an even stronger pace in the year to June.
A balance of 51 percent said sales increased in May, up from the prior month's balance of 12 percent and 
expectations of 40 percent.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks was losing 0.43 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, was falling 0.29 percent.
The FTSE 100 index fell 0.22 percent.
Intertek fell 1.8 percent and Centrica dropped 1.6 percent.
Hikma Pharma was losing 1.4 percent while WM Morrison dropped 1.3 percent.
Meanwhile, Ryanair jumped more than 6 percent after reporting a strong growth in full-year profit.
Weir Group added close to 3 percent and Royal Mail gained 2.8 percent.
Taylor Wimpey and Barratt Developments climbed nearly 2 percent each.
Other markets in the region were mostly lower.
The Asian stocks reversed early losses to end mostly higher as Chinese shares continued to rally and a rebound in 
iron ore prices lifted resource stocks.
In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall Street, following a public holiday on Monday.
UK Market Falls, But Ryanair Climbs On Results
Crude for July delivery fell $0.43 to $59.29 per barrel, while June gold dropped $9.8 to $1194.2 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
European Stocks To See Cautious Start
European Stocks To See Cautious Start
RTT News (United States)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 489 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are set to open on a mixed note on Tuesday, with nagging Greek worries and 
heightened political uncertainty in Spain following local elections likely to keep investor sentiment subdued.
Greece's government on Monday ruled out imposing controls over capital flows after an opposition lawmaker 
suggested the move if the country fails to strike a deal with its creditors soon. Gabriel Sakellaridis, the spokesman 
for the Greek government, reportedly said that the speculation of imposing capital controls was "unfounded and 
malicious".
Meanwhile, Klaus Regling, the head of the European Stability Mechanism, told Germany's Bild newspaper on 
Tuesday that without an agreement on reforms with creditors, Greece will not get any new loans.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular Party suffered its worst result in 20 years in a municipal election, 
as the voters punished his government for four years of austerity and a raft of corruption scandals before a general 
election due in November.
The dollar hit a one-month high against a basket of major currencies even as Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fischer said 
on Monday that it was "misleading" to give so much importance to the Fed's first interest rate hike since 2006.
After Friday's relatively positive inflation data and comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen, investors eye reports on 
durable goods orders, new home sales and consumer confidence later in the day for further clues to the Fed policy 
outlook.
Asian stocks are mostly higher on the back of strong gains in Hong Kong and China after Beijing announced a 
$300bn infrastructure spending package over the weekend and unveiled fresh plans to expedite cross-border 
investment.
In domestic corporate news, Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche Holding AG announced that the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration has provided 510(k) clearance for the cobas Cdiff Test to detect Clostridium difficile in stool 
specimens.
Media reports suggest that UBS Group AG is shutting its Australian wealth management unit, with senior 
employees offering to serve clients through a new company.
European Stocks To See Cautious Start
Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc said its full-year profit after tax climbed 66 percent to 867 million euros from 
523 million euros last year.
The European markets closed mostly lower in thin holiday trading on Monday, mirroring losses on Wall Street 
Friday after Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janel Yellen hinted that it would be appropriate to raise interest rates at 
some point this year, as long as economic activity picks up.
The Greek and Spanish stock markets were hit hard due to concerns over Greece and the poor election result for 
the governing Popular Party in regional and municipal elections. The German and U.K. markets were closed for 
holidays. U.S. equity markets were also closed for the Memorial Day holiday.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Fall Amid Greece Concerns
European Markets Fall Amid Greece Concerns
RTT News (United States)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 438 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets were trading lower on Tuesday, as concerns about Greece remained with the 
country expected to make a 300 million euros payment to the International Monetary Fund next week.
Sentiment was also impacted by political uncertainty in Spain, where Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular Party 
suffered its worst result in 20 years in a municipal election, as the voters punished his government for four years of 
austerity and a raft of corruption scandals before a general election due in November.
On a day of very little economic news, the quarterly Distributive Trades Survey from the Confederation of British 
Industry showed British retailers posted strong growth in sales this month and their outlook for sales and orders 
improved at an even stronger pace in the year to June.
A balance of 51 percent said sales increased in May, up from the prior month's balance of 12 percent and 
expectations of 40 percent.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks was losing 0.43 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, was falling 0.29 percent.
The German DAX, the FTSE 100 index of the U.K. and Switzerland's SMI were moderately lower, while the French 
CAC 40 slipped 0.1 percent.
In Frankfurt, steel giant ThyssenKrupp declined 1.8 percent. Utilities RWE and E.ON declined 1.7 percent and 1.5 
percent, respectively.
Commerzbank was falling 1.4 percent, while Deutsche Bank dropped 1.1 percent.
In Paris, Societe Generale declined 2.3 percent. Peer BNP Paribas was modestly lower, while Credit Agricole 
managed to trade in positive territory.
Tire maker Michelin and utility EDF dropped 1.9 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively.
Meanwhile, telecom firm Orange gained 1.5 percent and media giant Vivendi was adding 2 percent.
In London, Intertek fell 1.8 percent and Centrica dropped 1.6 percent.
Hikma Pharma was losing 1.4 percent while WM Morrison dropped 1.3 percent.
European Markets Fall Amid Greece Concerns
Weir Group added close to 3 percent and Royal Mail gained 2.8 percent.
Taylor Wimpey and Barratt Developments climbed nearly 2 percent each.
Ryanair jumped more than 6 percent after reporting a strong growth in full-year profit.
The Asian stocks reversed early losses to end mostly higher as Chinese shares continued to rally and a rebound in 
iron ore prices lifted resource stocks.
In the U.S., futures point to a cautious open on Wall Street, following a public holiday on Monday.
Crude for July delivery fell $0.43 to $59.29 per barrel, while June gold dropped $9.8 to $1194.2 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Annual Profit After Tax Climbs 66% - Quick Facts
Ryanair Annual Profit After Tax Climbs 66% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 225 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA.L, RYAAY) Tuesday said its full-year profit after tax 
climbed 66 percent to 867 million euros from 523 million euros in the prior year. Net margin jumped from 10 percent 
to 15 percent.
Earnings per basic share rose to 62.59 euro cents from 36.96 euro cents in the previous year.
Revenue grew 12 percent to 5.654 billion euros from 5.037 billion euros reported last year.
Ryanair said traffic was up 11 percent as load factors rose from 83 percent to 88 percent.
The company continues to experience strong demand and forward booking momentum. Average load factors in the 
first four months of 2015 grew 10 percent.
While this will slow to 1 or 2 percent over the peak summer months forward bookings are on average 4 percent 
ahead of this time last year, as the airline's earlier schedules, lower prices and AGB customer program, particularly 
at primary airports attracts new customers to Ryanair.
Looking ahead, the company believes that lower unit costs in fiscal 2016 will still provide a 10 percent improvement 
in profits, which should, subject to second-half yields over which the firm has no visibility, rise to a range of 940 
million euros to 970 million euros for the full year to March 2016.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Profit Climbs On Strong Demand
Ryanair Profit Climbs On Strong Demand
RTT News (United States)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 461 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Tuesday significant increase in 
fiscal 2015 earnings, as there has been a 11 percent traffic growth and the company was able to contain unit cost.
Looking ahead, the company expects that lower unit costs in fiscal 2016 would provide a 10 percent improvement in 
profits, which should, subject to second-half yields over which the firm has no visibility, rise to a range of 940 million 
euros to 970 million euros for the full year to March 2016.
For the full year, profit attributable to equity holders climbed 66 percent to 867 million euros from 523 million euros 
in the prior year.
Earnings per share rose 69 percent to 62.46 euro cents. Profit before tax was 982.4 million euros, compared to 
591.4 million euros.
The company attributed the increase in earnings primarily to a 1 percent increase in average fares, a 11 percent 
increase in traffic, a stronger load factor, and 11 percent fuel savings per passenger. There has been 1 percent 
reduction in fuel costs.
Operating revenue grew 12 percent to 5.654 billion euros from 5.037 billion euros reported last year. Scheduled 
revenues improved 12 percent to 4.26 billion euros aided by the timing of Easter in the first quarter and its absence 
in the prior year comparative, along with a 5 percentage point increase in load factor.
Ryanair said traffic was up 11 percent to 90.6 million customers from prior year's 81.7 million customers as load 
factors rose 5 points to 88 percent from 83 percent.
Total revenue per passenger rose 1 percent, primarily due to the strong growth in scheduled revenues.
Unit costs excluding fuel remained flat, however, including fuel unit costs fell 5 percent, benefited from lower 
unhedged fuel prices.
Operating profit increased 58 percent to 1.04 billion euros, and operating margin increased 5 points to 18 percent.
The company said it continues to experience strong demand and forward booking momentum, reflecting growth into 
primary airports and the impact of its Year 1 AGB programme.
Ryanair Profit Climbs On Strong Demand
Regarding the current trading, the company said its average load factors in the first four months of 2015 grew 10 
percent. While this will slow to 1 or 2 percent over the peak summer months, forward bookings are on average 4 
percent ahead of this time last year, the company said.
The company said its traffic growth this year will about 10 percent, yet it warned that the firm may suffer periods of 
fare/yield weakness especially during the second half winter season even with the benefit of lower oil, aircraft and 
financing costs.
In London, Ryanair shares gained 1.40 percent on Friday and settled at 10.90 euros.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Dropped On Continued Greek Concerns
European Markets Dropped On Continued Greek Concerns
RTT News (United States)
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 775 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The majority of the European markets ended Tuesday's session in the red. Investor sentiment was 
impacted by continued concerns about Greece. The country is expected to make a 300 million euros payment to 
the International Monetary Fund next week.
Greece's government on Monday ruled out imposing controls over capital flows over the upcoming long weekend, 
after an opposition lawmaker suggested the move if the country fails to strike a deal with its creditors soon.
Gabriel Sakellaridis, the spokesman for the Greek government, reportedly said that the speculation of imposing 
capital controls was "unfounded and malicious."
Sentiment was also impacted by political uncertainty in Spain, where Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular Party 
suffered its worst result in 20 years in a municipal election, as the voters punished his government for four years of 
austerity and a raft of corruption scandals before a general election due in November.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks decreased by 1.03 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, lost 0.88 percent.
The DAX of Germany declined by 1.61 percent and the CAC 40 of France fell by 0.66 percent. The FTSE of the 
U.K. dropped by 1.18 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.86 percent.
In Frankfurt, E.ON declined by 3.38 percent and RWE fell by 2.82 percent.
Deutsche Bank decreased by 2.47 percent and Commerzbank lost 2.25 percent.
In Paris, Total dropped by 1.51 percent and Technip fell by 1.32 percent.
Vivendi bucked the overall trend, with an increase of 1.41 percent.
In London, Ryanair jumped by 5.38 percent, after reporting a strong growth in full-year profit. Easyjet also climbed 
by 1.57 percent.
Weir Group increased by 3.36 percent and Royal Mail added 3.57 percent.
European Markets Dropped On Continued Greek Concerns
Mining stocks turned in a weak performance, due to falling commodity prices. Fresnillo sank by 3.54 percent and 
Randgold Resources dropped by 3.52 percent. Anglo American declined by 2.45 percent and Antofagasta lost 2.39 
percent.
Altice sank by 6.55 percent in Amsterdam. The company was reportedly involved in talks with Time Warner Cable 
about a possible combination. Time Warner Cable has agreed to acquired by Charter Communications.
British retailers posted strong growth in sales this month and their outlook for sales and orders improved at an even 
stronger pace in the year to June, the quarterly Distributive Trades Survey from the Confederation of British 
Industry showed Tuesday.
A balance of 51 percent said sales increased in May, up from the prior month's balance of 12 percent and 
expectations of 40 percent.
Switzerland's employment increased in the first quarter largely driven by the job creation in the tertiary sector, the 
Federal Statistical Office said Tuesday. Employment increased to 4.22 million in the first quarter from 4.19 million in 
the same period of last year. But it fell from 4.23 million reported in the fourth quarter.
Largely reflecting a pullback in orders for transportation equipment, the Commerce Department released a report on 
Tuesday showing a modest decrease in new orders for U.S. manufactured durable goods in the month of April.
The report said durable goods orders dipped by 0.5 percent in April, with the modest decrease matching 
economists' consensus estimate.
Home prices in major U.S. metropolitan areas continued to show notable annual growth in the month of March, 
according to a report released by Standard & Poor's on Tuesday.
The report said the 20-City Composite Home Price Index rose 5.0 percent year-over-year in March, unchanged 
from the annual growth seen in February. Economists had expected the rate of growth to slow to 4.6 percent.
Following the pullback seen in the previous month, the Commerce Department released a report on Tuesday 
showing that U.S. new home sales rebounded by more than expected in the month of April. The report said new 
home sales climbed 6.8 percent to an annual rate of 517,000 in April from the revised March rate of 484,000.
Economists had expected new home sales to rise to a rate of 509,000 from the 481,000 originally reported for the 
previous month.
Consumer confidence in the U.S. improved modestly in May after declining sharply in April, the Conference Board 
revealed in a report released on Tuesday. The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index rose to 95.4 
in May from a downwardly revised 94.3 in April.
Economists had expected the consumer confidence index to dip to 95.0 from the 95.2 originally reported for the 
previous month.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Royal Mail rallies as FTSE retreats 1.4%
Royal Mail rallies as FTSE retreats 1.4%
Citywire
May 26, 2015 Tuesday 5:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 636 words
Body
(Update) The UK stock market got the short week off to a poor start with the FTSE 100 falling 98 points as 
European markets were overshadowed by election results in Spain and the crisis debt talks with Greece.
The UK's blue chip index slid 1.4% to 6,933 with Eurozone exposed banks and mining and energy stocks, hit by a 
weaker oil price, the main fallers.
Mining stocks Fresnillo (FRES) and Randgold Resources (RRS) slid 3.5% followed by CRH (CRH), the Irish 
building materials group, which declined 3.1%, and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), which dropped 2.8% to 345p.
It was a similar story In Europe with the FTSEurofirst300 closing 15 points or nearly 1% lower at 1,601, with 
Spanish banks sliding after a bad performance by the ruling conservative People's Party in local elections.
The Greek stock market rallied 1% after a government spokesman said the country would honour its debts although 
it urgently needed help to meet the first of four loan repayments to the International Monetary Fund on 5 June.
The heightened uncertainty hit the euro, down 0.7% to $1.0895 against the dollar after Klaus Regling, head of the 
Eurozone's ESM bailout fund, told the Bild newspaper in Germany that officials were 'working day and night' but 
that 'little time is left' for a deal.
Against the pound the single currency plunged to a ten-week low of 70.645p, while nervous investors pushed the 
price of German government bonds - or bunds - higher with yields on 10-year debt dipping to 0.543%.
Ryanair Holdings (RYA) provided some distraction with shares in the Dublin-based budget airline rising nearly 5% 
to 11.40, the biggest gainer in the FTSEurofirst300, after annual profits surged 66%.The shares have soared 60% 
in the past year.
The company which is backed by leading institutions such as HSBC, Fidelity, Standard Life, Baillie Gifford and 
BlackRock delivered pre-tax profits of 867 million in the year to the end of March and forecast profits of between 
940 million and 970 million this year.
It increased passenger numbers by 11% to 90 million, sealing its status as Europe's largest airline on that measure, 
and expected 100 million to fly with it this year.
Royal Mail rallies as FTSE retreats 1.4%
The Irish airline said the growth was the result of its Always Getting Better programme aimed at eradicating its 
reputation for poor customer service.
Gerald Khoo of Liberum Capital said: 'As ever, Ryanair continues to trade on a deserved premium to the other 
European airlines, reflecting its strong earnings momentum and superior ROIC [return on invested capital] and 
margins. However, the rating does appear a little full in absolute terms and further share price upside is likely to be 
reliant upon estimates being revised higher. We shall review our "buy" recommendation and 10.50 target price as 
necessary.'
In London Easyjet (EZJ) was one of the top risers, up 1.6% to £16.16 on Ryanair's tailwind.
Royal Mail (RMG) was the FTSE 100's biggest gainer, hitting an 11-month high with a 3.6% gain to 521.5p after 
Cantor Fitzgerald upgraded the stock to 'hold' from 'sell'. Last week the privatised postal service operator reported a 
1.8% rise in underlying operating profits to £740 million but complained of tough competition from Amazon in its 
parcels business.
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) dropped 1.6% or 23p to £14.41 after JP Morgan cut its target price to £13.20 from £13.80 
and kept the drugs giant 'underweight'.
JP Morgan also made its presence felt in the FTSE 250 as it downgraded Soco International (SIA) to 'underweight' 
from 'neutral' saying the medium-term outlook for the price of Brent crude of between $50-70 a barrel would 
challenge exploration companies with stretched balance sheets. The shares tumbled 3.7%, dragging down Tullow 
Oil (TLW), Cairn Energy (CNE) and Premier Oil (PMO), in their wake before rallying to close virtually unchanged at 
190p.
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
End of Document
Slip in consumer confidence despite retail sales growth LONDON REPORT
Slip in consumer confidence despite retail sales growth; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
May 26, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 172 words
Body
DATA on GDP growth, consumer confidence and house prices are due out this week, and today sees the release of 
the CBI Distributive Trades Survey.
The CBI's research is expected to show robust retail sales growth in May.
GDP growth in the first quarter is likely to be revised up to 0.4 per cent quarter-on-quarter on Thursday, according 
to IHS Global Insights, which said the upward movement is a consequence of marginal growth in industrial 
production.
Thursday will also see the GfK/NOP consumer confidence index, which is expected to have slipped in May due in 
part to concerns over the General Election result.
Nationwide is expected to report a 0.4 per cent month-on-month increase in house prices during May at some point 
this week.
The corporate calendar starts this week with results from Ryanair, out this morning.
Tomorrow will see updates from Brewin Dolphin, Wizz Air, Telford Homes and Scapa Group, and on Thursday IG 
Group, Paypoint and Tate & Lyle will all report.
On Friday, Frontline and Biofrontera will update the market.
Load-Date: May 26, 2015
Slip in consumer confidence despite retail sales growth LONDON REPORT
End of Document
Corporate diary May 25 - May 29
Corporate diary; May 25 - May 29
Financial Times (London, England)
May 25, 2015 Monday
Asia Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 20
Length: 851 words
Body
TUESDAY 26
When Ryanair posts its full-year results, analysts are expecting Europe's biggest budget carrier to be in line for a 
bumper net profit of EUR865m.
That is up from the EUR840m-EUR850m range that Michael O'Leary , chief executive, forecast in February.
Investors will compare Ryanair's performance with that of easyJet, which disappointed the market this month and 
warned of downward pressure on fares because of lower fuel prices.
In contrast to easyJet, Ryanair is set to be helped by exchange rate movements. It has also increased its load 
factor, the measure of how full its aircraft are, which improves the economics of flights.
"We'd expect a good summer outlook, given recent load factor performance and the strength of sterling," said Oliver 
Sleath, airlines analyst at Barclays.
However, with regard to Mr O'Leary's habit of playing down Ryanair's performance, he added that he "wouldn't be 
surprised if Ryanair tempers that with a very conservative winter forecast".
In that forecast for its months ahead, investors will be looking to assess the strength of forward bookings. Ryanair's 
performance will also reflect how successful its attempt to turn round its image has been. Jane Wild
Corporate diary May 25 - May 29
The Competition and Markets Authority has called for comments from the industry about BT's proposed acquisition 
of the UK's largest mobile group, EE . BT, which is acquiring EE from Deutsche Telekom and Orange for £12.5bn, 
submitted its request for a fast track review of the deal to the CMA this week.
The CMA is considering BT's appeal to move immediately to a phase two inquiry - and so skipping the phase one 
work - with a decision deadline of July 14.
The combination of BT and EE will create the UK's largest fixed and mobile telecoms operator. BT says it would not 
reduce competition in either market.
BT's rivals have already raised objections both to the fast track process and to the acquisition as a whole, with 
some such as TalkTalk and Sky using the investigation as a chance to push for the separation of BT's Openreach 
infrastructure arm. Daniel Thomas
EARNINGS
Shareholders' meeting Alcatel-Lucent
WEDNESDAY 27
Tiffany & Co , the venerable diamond retailer, will report first-quarter earnings before markets open. In its last 
earnings announcement, the company warned it expected a 30 per cent drop in net earnings for the quarter and a 
10 per cent drop in global sales, weighed by the impact of a strong US dollar and soft demand in the Americas and 
Japan.
Investor sentiment has suffered since the gloomy guidance, sending the shares down nearly 20 per cent this year 
and underperforming peers.
Economists and analysts forecast $0.69 in earnings per share for the three months to April, after the company 
earned $1.51 per share in the previous quarter. Analysts say plans to increase prices and sell more high-end 
products may revive sales this year. Anna Nicolaou
EARNINGS
THURSDAY 28
Tate & Lyle hopes to close the book on a horrible year punctuated by three profit warnings, a 13 per cent drop in its 
share price and ejection from the FTSE 100.
The sweeteners and ingredients group is expected to report annual sales of £2.6bn and pre-tax profits of £225m, 
both of which are a drop on last year.
Splenda, the erstwhile star sucralose sweetener, has lost almost all its profits in the face of fierce competition, while 
frozen rail tracks last winter created havoc in its supply chain in the US.
Javed Ahmed , chief executive, said last month the company would exit the bulk sweeteners market in Europe - 
ahead of the 2017 EU deregulation in high fructose corn syrup - and slash costs in the sucralose unit.
Ingredients are an attractive category within the food business, usually commanding higher profit margins and 
return on capital than many food types.
Investors will want reassurance from Mr Ahmed not only that he is digging the company out of its hole, but that he 
can capitalise on the favourable characteristics of the ingredients sector - without a repeat of last year's headaches. 
Scheherazade Daneshkhu
Three years ago, Google 's annual "I/O" developer conference in San Francisco saw the launch of its Glass 
eyewear with an all-action skydiving, abseiling and BMX-riding stunt.
Corporate diary May 25 - May 29
This time around, with Glass back on the drawing board, Google is looking to a different kind of headset: virtual 
reality.
As it gathers thousands of mobile, web and cloud developers in San Francisco, Google is expected to unveil new 
features for its Cardboard VR headset, which uses an Android smartphone as its screen.
Cardboard was unveiled as a side project at last year's I/O but after more than 1m of the low-cost devices were 
sold, Google hopes to take on Facebook -owned Oculus VR and Samsung 's Gear VR in the fast-emerging 
market.
The initiative is just one part of the annual refresh of its Android operating system to be announced at the event, 
with updates for smartphones, smart watches and television set-top boxes.
As its Google+ social network continues to struggle, the company is expected to break off one of its most popular 
features, photo-sharing, into a standalone images app. Tim Bradshaw
EARNINGS
Load-Date: May 24, 2015
End of Document
Market Talk
Market Talk
Sunday Business Post
May 24, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 600 words
Body
The number of occasions since 1999 on which Eircom has either changed hands or been in takeover talks is now 
approaching double figures. At times, it's hard to keep track of exactly who has made and lost money buying and 
selling the country's biggest telecoms provider.
Last week, Eircom confirmed it had received a fresh takeover approach recently that valued the company, including 
all of its debt, at as much as EUR 3.3 billion. The bid was rejected as undervaluing the company, and Eircom has 
said it's not moving ahead with the talks.
That may be the end of it as far as Eircom's management is concerned. But there's absolutely no doubt that we are 
in for another change in Eircom's ownership soon.
The reported buyer of Eircom was Anchorage Capital, a US hedge fund that had held 8 per cent of Eircom's shares. 
It has since added to that position, by buying a further 25 per cent from investment firm Blackstone.
Since going into examinership in 2012, Eircom has been owned by a group of bondholders and lenders. They 
looked to cash out last year with a stock market flotation, but the deal was pulled at the last minute because new 
investors were unwilling to accept the valuation they wanted to put on Eircom.
Now Eircom's chief executive, Richard Moat, has raised the prospect of a flotation once again, as the company's 
revenues begin to stabilise and costs come down. That would allow it to use the cash thrown off from its earnings to 
go back to investors.
The lines between telecoms and media companies are becoming increasingly blurred. Last week we saw the 
prospect being mooted of Vodafone merging with Liberty, the owner of cable TV provider UPC. BT is now a major 
player in the television market, while AOL has been swallowed up by US mobile phone giant Verizon.
Eircom itself has been moving in that direction: just over one-fifth of its customers have taken up its TV service as 
part of a mobile phone package.
Market Talk
Anchorage Capital may have been seen off for now. But it has more than doubled down on its stake in Eircom, 
which shows it is not going away. What Eircom needs is a period of stable ownership, so that it can capitalise on 
data-hungry customers who want multiple services. Anchorage does not fit that bill.
.......
**Much, much more Mr Nice Guy**
As usual, all the the focus in the aviation industry will be on Ireland's second biggest airline this week, as the saga 
of the takeover of Aer Lingus nears some sort of conclusion.
But watch out for Ryanair this Tuesday, as it delivers its full-year results that should show a record profit of EUR 
850 million - and even that figure may be underestimating the eventual outcome.
Over the 12 months to the end of March 2015, which is Ryanair's financial year, it carried an incredible 90 million 
passengers across Europe.
Since Michael O'Leary had his road to Damascus moment a couple of years ago and changed his customer service 
policy, the airline hasn't looked back. The changes have gone down well with travellers and that will worry Ryanair's 
rivals, including Aer Lingus.
The lower oil price has had little effect on most European airlines, as they have hedged out their prices well above 
the current spot rate.
With better hedging strategies, they will be able to lock in much lower prices, reducing their costs and boosting their 
bottom lines.
The danger for Ryanair's rivals is that O'Leary's strategy of being nice to passengers is working.
It's conceivable in the next year or so that passenger numbers will go above 100 million and profits above EUR 1 
billion. There appears to be no stopping the new nice guy of the aviation world.
Load-Date: May 25, 2015
End of Document
Cabinet to finally give nod for Euro 1.3bn Aer Lingus takeover
Cabinet to finally give nod for Euro 1.3bn Aer Lingus takeover
Sunday Business Post
May 24, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 303 words
Body
The EUR 1.3 billion takeover of Aer Lingus by Willie Walsh's IAG is set to receive the cabinet's approval this week.
It's understood that the finishing touches on the long-awaited takeover of the airline have been hammered out in 
recent days and the government will announce it is now backing the deal on Tuesday.
A report by a committee of experts set up by the Department of Transport on the safeguarding of jobs, landing slots 
at Heathrow airport and future investment plans by IAG has been completed and will be brought to cabinet by 
transport minister Paschal Donohoe. Ryanair will also greenlight the deal, which will then trigger a formal offer by 
IAG, the parent company of British Airways and Iberia for Aer Lingus.
It's understood that senior executives from Ryanair, which is the largest investor in Aer Lingus, have held a number 
of meetings with top government officials about the proposed takeover.
The Sunday Business Post has also learned that the Irish government canvassed the European Commission on 
competition aspects of the takeover in recent weeks.
The IAG boss last week said he was in no rush to complete the takeover of his former employer. It first approached 
Aer Lingus last December, and after an initial rebuff, raised its offer to EUR 2.50 a share and a five cent dividend 
Aer Lingus had agreed to pay shareholders.
The government had brushed off IAG's first approach, saying the guarantees on connectivity out of Ireland for five 
years were not sufficient and it wanted a longer commitment. It's long been expected that IAG will meet the 
government halfway and offer a seven-year guarantee.
Unions have yet to be swayed by Walsh, with Impact members last week approving a motion saying the guarantees 
provided by IAG were worthless.
Shares in Aer Lingus closed down slightly on Friday, at EUR 2.37.
Cabinet to finally give nod for Euro 1.3bn Aer Lingus takeover
Load-Date: May 25, 2015
End of Document
Hotlist 1985 v 2015 FT Weekend at 30
Hotlist 1985 v 2015; FT Weekend at 30
Financial Times (London, England)
May 23, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 2
Length: 323 words
Body
Style icons
1985: Madonna 2015: Rihanna
Perfume launch
1985: Obsession, Calvin Klein 2015: Tom Ford Noir (for men)
 Oscars dress
1985: Sally Field wears Holly Harp 2015: Julianne Moore wears Chanel Couture
Ray-Ban aviators 
1985: £6.95 (£18.90 today) 2015: £125 (minimum)
The Prada bag
1985: £250 (£680 today) 2015: £565
High-tech home
1985: British Telecom Robin answering machine, £99.99 (£272 today) 2015: Apple Watch, from £299
Hotlist 1985 v 2015 FT Weekend at 30
Creative director of Chanel
1985: Karl Lagerfeld 2015: Karl Lagerfeld
Hot destination
1985: Australia; 2015: Myanmar
Travelling in style
1985: Seat 1A, on British Airways Concorde 2015: The Residence private suite for two, onboard Etihad's Airbus 
A380
 New routes
1985: Ryanair: London to Waterford 2015: La Compagnie launches business-class only flights, London to New York
Big at the box office
1985: Back to the Future,  $381.1m ($842m today) 2015 (so far): Furious 7, $1.49bn
On the bestsellers list 
May 1985: 1. Mountbatten: The Official Biography , Philip Ziegler
2. In Search of the Trojan War , Michael Wood
3. Hold the Dream , Barbara Taylor Bradford
4. The Growing Pains of Adrian Mole , Sue Townsend
5. Wisden Cricketers' Almanack 1985 , May 2015: 1. The Girl on the Train , Paula Hawkins 2. Deliciously Ella : 
Awesome ingredients, incredible food that you and your body will love , Ella Woodward 3. A God in Ruins , Kate 
Atkinson 4. Get the Glow: Delicious and Easy Recipes That Will Nourish You from the Inside Out, Madeleine Shaw 
5. Without a Trace , Lesley Pearse
Bestselling albums
1985: 1. Brothers in Arms , Dire Straits
2. No Jacket Required , Phil Collins
3. Like A Virgin , Madonna
4. Born in the USA , Bruce Springsteen
5. Songs from the Big Chair , Tears for Fears
2015 (so far):
1. In the Lonely Hour , Sam Smith
2. X , Ed Sheeran
3. Wanted on Voyage , George Ezra
4. 1989 , Taylor Swift 5. Chasing Yesterday , Noel Gallagher's High Flying Birds
Sources: Box Office Mojo; The Bookseller magazine; © Official Charts Company
Hotlist 1985 v 2015 FT Weekend at 30
Load-Date: May 22, 2015
End of Document
Fund management needs a low-cost overhaul
Fund management needs a low-cost overhaul
Financial Times (London, England)
May 23, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10
Length: 96 words
Body
Sir, Merryn Somerset Webb rightly draws attention to to the drag that high charges have on the performance of 
funds ( FT Money , May 16). More than a decade ago Bedlam Asset Management was founded in an attempt to 
align fees charged to investors with funds received by them. Funds under management peaked at almost £600m. 
Now Andrew McNally and George Cooper with their company Equitile have the same objective. Bedlam closed its 
funds in 2013. I hope Bedlam may be seen as the Freddie Laker of fund management and that Equitile will be 
Ryanair.
Christopher Bellew
London W6, UK
Load-Date: May 22, 2015
End of Document
O'Leary to seek CMA damages as Irish government gets green light
O'Leary to seek CMA damages as Irish government gets green light
City A.M.
May 18, 2015 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 181 words
Byline: ADAM HIGNETT
Body
RYANAIR boss Michael O'Leary was fighting a rearguard battle with the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
over the weekend as he sought to maintain his firm's stake in Aer Lingus.
The threat from O'Leary to seek damages from the regulator, made in the Telegraph, is the latest salvo in the long-
running dispute.
O'Leary has maintained the decision by the CMA to force Ryanair to cuts its 29.8 per cent stake in Aer Lingus to 
just five per cent has damaged shareholder value due to the spectre of an impending divestiture.
The news of O'Leary preparing to take legal action to the next level came as the Irish government moved a step 
closer to selling its 25 per cent holding in Aer Lingus to International Airlines Group (IAG). Despite pressure from 
opposition parties, trade unions and some members of its own party, the panel appointed by the Irish government to 
examine IAG's bid is set to recommend the sale goes ahead. IAG's current £1bn offer for Aer Lingus, valuing the 
airline at (EURO)2.55 per share, is the third offer since December but is conditional on both parties selling up.
Graphic
 
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary is aggrieved at the CMA's decision over Aer Lingus
O'Leary to seek CMA damages as Irish government gets green light
Load-Date: May 23, 2015
End of Document
Cork energy firm React seeks bankruptcy protection
Cork energy firm React seeks bankruptcy protection
Sunday Business Post
May 17, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 311 words
Body
Kerry global fintech firm Monex has moved into a new territory, launching its technology in hundreds of ATMs 
around Miami.
The Florida city is one of the world's most popular holiday spots with 10 million international visitors a year.
Monex's unique currency conversion technology has been installed at ATMs in tourist hotspots, at the Dolphin Mall, 
the biggest shopping centre in the state of Miami Dade - and at Miami International Airport.
The service means ATM users' transactions are completed in the currency of their choice within seconds.
Monex recently launched its services throughout Las Vegas, including on the gambling mecca's Las Vegas 
Boulevard, at the MGM Grand Casino.
   Our ambition is to roll out all over the world,   founder and chief executive Frank Murphy told The Sunday 
Business Post.    Every country is a target.  
Murphy invented the super fast currency exchange solution behind Monex's Dynamic Currency Conversion product. 
It's available in more than 65,000 ATMs worldwide in 46 countries.
Monex processes $32 billion worth of transactions a year. Headquartered in Kerry, its clients include Ryanair, Hertz 
and the National Bank of Abu Dhabi.
Profits last year rose 130 per cent to EUR 7.6 million. Analysts estimate its value to exceed EUR 100 million.
It may take on a joint venture partner, but Murphy has no interest in selling, despite approaches from Lloyds and 
others, he said last week.
Monex is also close to signing terms on a digital marketing business acquisition that it is acquiring with an 
international investor.
Cork energy firm React seeks bankruptcy protection
Murphy also applies a slew of innovations to the workings of his Cork beef farm, Glen South, where a state-of-the-
art cattle feeding robot is in use and high-tech digital systems analyse the efficient running of the operation.
He plans to increase his herd from 364 to more than 1,000 cattle for the high-end beef market.
Load-Date: May 19, 2015
End of Document
Eurozone crisis : We can only expect the worst from a British exit
Eurozone crisis : We can only expect the worst from a British exit
Sunday Business Post
May 17, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 981 words
Body
David Cameron's re-election stunned pollsters and put the issue of Britain leaving the European Union firmly on the 
table. Showing how far removed British voters are from the long-term interests of their nation, they have re-elected 
a party which promises to impose more austerity, weaken social structures, and cut them off from one of their 
largest markets.
Democracy is a funny thing. The 'media macro' type of analysis done by the British media shows us that the trade-
off was sold in terms of benefits to migrants and costs to the taxpayer of being in the EU - as a rich nation Britain 
contributes more than it receives from the European Union in many cases.
Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum on Britain remaining within the Union before the end of 2017. Unlike 
membership of the euro, a sovereign state can actually leave the European Union. Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon 
provides that    any Member State may decide to withdraw from the Union   on the basis of a negotiated    
arrangement  .
Greenland left the EU in 1985, but as it only exported fish, the effects weren't that pronounced.
For Britain, the effects of leaving would be enormous. First, the timing would have to be negotiated. If in 2017 the 
British people said 'yes, we'd like to leave', the exit might be in 2019. Or 2018. Or 2020. A period of uncertainty 
around legal and economic structures would precede and follow any exit. For example, upon an exit there would be 
a suspension of all regulations which have direct effects, including mundane things like gathering statistics but also 
vital things like food safety legislation.
These legal issues could be fixed but, equally, legal black holes could open up all over the place. There would be 
an end to the direct transit of goods and services across borders, as well as people. It would make an end to the 
principle of no state aid for companies. So you could see a situation where, say, Ryanair has to compete with a 
heavily subsidised British Airways for routes, and loses.
Eurozone crisis : We can only expect the worst from a British exit
It might change the business model for many sectors. For example, Britain's universities might lose access to 
Horizon 2020 funding, worth EUR 80 billion over seven years, which is key to enhancing research. The universities 
might also find attracting students a harder proposition as the referendum will focus, unhealthily I suspect, on 
migrants.
For Irish people, all of a sudden, it would be harder to drive to Northern Ireland, harder to work in London, harder to 
invest in Britain and have British investors invest in Ireland.
These problems might be solved by adopting bilateral treaties or being granted most-favoured nation statuses, but it 
would not be as open and free a movement of capital and labour as before, and substantial problems in supply 
chain management, as well as hiring, will occur.
The top four countries whose citizens go to Britain are, in order, India, Poland, Pakistan, and Ireland. Irish nationals 
made up more than 5 per cent of all migrants to Britain from 1995 to 2013.
For British citizens living and working in the EU -and paying taxes - an exit would change their lives dramatically. 
More than 12 per cent of Britain's working population is foreign-born. What will happen to them?
**Disaster for Ireland**
In pure trade terms, for Ireland a shock exit would be a disaster. Right now Ireland exports about 14 per cent of all 
our goods and services to Britain. Adding the value of all the exports we send to Britain, we find our relationship has 
been worth around EUR 260 billion in today's money.
We also import a substantial amount from Britain.
Again, adding up all the import values since 1995, we have a total country to country trade of around EUR 305 
billion. Huge, huge sums of money. We also have to remember that for as long as there have been people on the 
island of Ireland, they have been trading with Britain. A poorly managed exit could redefine the trade relationship 
the two countries have enjoyed since the 1950s, as Britain would experience a recession and, combined with a 
realignment of the terms of trade, take us down with them.
Then there's the, literally, murky areas of shadow banking and tax arbitrage. Will Ireland's multinationals and 
financial intermediaries appreciate the effects an exit has on their abilities to move capital between Britain and 
Ireland to reduce their tax bills? Will the IFSC hoover up brass plates from the City of London, Europe's largest 
financial centre? What about Irish agencies like the IDA poaching British-bound investment opportunities at Britain's 
loss?
While extra foreign direct investment - of the productive kind - would always be welcome, diplomatic and economic 
repercussions would be soon to follow. A series of tax and banking treaties to ward off these destabilising effects 
would represent a Keynesian stimulus for lawyers, economists, regulators, and other productivity parasites, and 
simultaneously weaken politicians, who will publicly pass the bills, deepening the cynicism the public already feels 
towards their rulers.
The Centre for European Reform has done the best work in trying to understand the detailed disconnections leaving 
the EU would cause Britain. Its poorer regions would suffer very large shocks at the same time as Chancellor 
George Osborne is trying to create a resurgence in the north of England. Its models also estimate that leaving the 
EU would harm Ireland almost as much as it would harm Britain in terms of lost growth and higher unemployment.
Leaving the EU is a terrible, terrible idea for Britain. For Ireland there are opportunities, but the weaknesses of the 
idea far outweigh its strengths. We will have to hope for the rationality of the average British voter to emerge in the 
process of the referendum campaign. Although Alexander Pope might have been right when he wrote    Blessed is 
he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.  
Eurozone crisis : We can only expect the worst from a British exit
Load-Date: May 19, 2015
End of Document
Focus On: ICT Security 2015: The growth in digital access opens the door to hackers
Focus On: ICT Security 2015: The growth in digital access opens the door to 
hackers
Sunday Business Post
May 17, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMERCIAL REPORTS
Length: 580 words
Body
Cyber criminals are not what they used to be. Where once they engaged in the one-off hacking of high-profile 
websites for bragging rights or notoriety, they are now highly organised and have huge supporting networks behind 
them.
In a 2014 report, Grant Thornton estimated that cybercrime was costing the Irish economy about EUR 400 million a 
year.
According to John Ryan, chief executive of IT security firm Zinopy, there is still a lingering mentality of    it won't 
happen to us   - but the reality, he said, is that    you can't manage what you don't measure  , and most 
organisations have neither the tools nor the skills to measure and manage their security alone.
   Today's threats are targeted, discrete and all about making money,   Ryan said.    Hackers are no longer 
interested in notoriety, which is why they will access and hide their existence and their actions on your network for 
as long as possible, while they steal from you.  
The recent Ryanair breach, during which EUR 4.6 million was siphoned from the airline's bank accounts, amounted 
to a perfect example of the sophistication these criminals have available to them, Ryan said.
Unfortunately, some of the things that have made companies more productive and efficient, such as remote 
working, cloud systems and bring-your-own-device policies, have also made those firms more vulnerable to cyber 
attacks.
   The security perimeter in most organisations has dissolved, as businesses require users to have access to 
systems at any time, from anywhere, and on any device,   Ryan said.
Desktop virtualisation systems, which provide efficient access to data and applications, along with two-factor 
authentication to gain access to systems, can help minimise the risks.
Focus On: ICT Security 2015: The growth in digital access opens the door to hackers
   Using mobile phones to provide this strong authentication can be a very effective solution, as it's easy to deploy, 
is very cost-effective and eliminates the vulnerabilities of static passwords,   he said.
Quoting the chief executive of Cisco, John Chambers, Ryan said there were only two types of companies - those 
that had been hacked, and those didn't yet know they had been hacked.
Statistics lend credence to that claim.
According to a FireEye report this year, 205 is the median number of days that threat groups were present on a 
victim's network before being detected - and 66 per cent of victims were notified by an external entity such as An 
Garda Síochána.
Ryan said Zinopy was uniquely positioned to provide both security and desktop virtualisation solutions.
   This approach can minimise the risk profile by keeping the data in a centralised location, and by focusing the 
security effort on that centralised resource,   he said.
   By establishing policies, processes and technologies needed to create a secure information infrastructure, 
businesses can have the confidence to share information with global peers, customers, partners and suppliers and 
to adopt the technologies that drive business agility.  
When choosing a security services provider, Ryan advised businesses to pick a partner that can already show 
strong business relationships and holds top-level accreditations with leading vendors. They should also have the 
confidence to set themselves apart, and innovate by offering more niche and emerging technologies to meet 
customers' needs and budgets, he said.
   We strongly believe that trust, expertise, efficiency and innovation shape the culture and define the character of 
our company, and that's what sets us apart,   he said.
Load-Date: May 19, 2015
End of Document
French strikes to take shine off easyJet 's record start Flight disruptions put a damper on budget airline's best 
interim results
French strikes to take shine off easyJet's record start; Flight disruptions put 
a damper on budget airline's best interim results
Financial Times (London, England)
May 13, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 17
Length: 495 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Body
EasyJet shares fell sharply yesterday after the UK budget airline warned that disruption from French air traffic 
control strikes would weigh on its full-year profit, taking the shine off a record first-half performance.
Carolyn McCall , chief executive, said disruption in the company's third quarter - when more than 600 easyJet 
flights were cancelled due to the strikes - was expected to reduce pre-tax profit by £25m.
Shares in the airline fell almost 10 per cent to £16.54.
Analysts said the lacklustre start to summer trading, traditionally when European airlines make most of their profits, 
would drag down consensus forecasts for easyJet's full year.
Stephen Furlong, an analyst at Davy, said the company's warning that it would make less revenue per seat would 
"suggest some downside to our full-year profit before tax of £665m and certainly consensus £677m estimates".
Last year, easyJet reported a pre-tax profit of £581m. Exchange rate movements would also weigh on annual profit 
by about £20m, the company said.
French strikes to take shine off easyJet 's record start Flight disruptions put a damper on budget airline's best 
interim results
EasyJet, Europe's second-biggest budget airline, is facing a tougher -outlook as its larger rival Ryanair sharpens its 
competitive edge after an image overhaul and improvements to its network.
However, a lower fuel bill and favourable currency exchange movements helped easyJet to its best interim 
performance to date.
The Luton-based carrier made a pre-tax profit of £7m for the six months to the end of March, up from a loss of 
£53m a year ago. The last time it made a profit in its first half was in 2002.
Ms McCall said: "As we enter the important summer season, forward bookings are in line with last year and, as we 
predicted, passengers are benefiting as fares fall to reflect a more competitive operating environment and lower fuel 
costs."
The fall in the price of fuel, which has dropped sharply since last summer when the value of Brent crude oil began 
declining, is set to cut easyJet's costs by between £95m and £120m for the year to the end of September.
Ms McCall underlined her support for the expansion of Heathrow airport, which she has said easyJet would like to 
move into if it gained another runway and slots became available.
In contrast, she said, expansion at Gatwick would prove "extremely onerous" in terms of cost for easyJet.
"No one is screaming for capacity at Gatwick," she said. "If you talk to any British business person they will all say 
'Why don't they just get on with Heathrow?'"
EasyJet's load factor, a measure of how full its aircraft are, rose 0.7 per cent to 89.7 per cent in the first half. 
Revenue per seat increased 2.6 per cent at constant currency.
Higher charges at airports in Germany and Italy and the costs of disruption pushed up costs per seat, excluding fuel 
and on a constant currency basis.
Revenue came to £1.8bn in the first half, up 3.8 per cent compared with a year ago. Basic earnings per share were 
1.3p, up from a loss of 10.4p. The ordinary dividend per share was 45.4p, up from 33.5p.
Lombard page 22
Load-Date: May 12, 2015
End of Document
Majority of Irish workers are not aware of cyber security risks Majority of Iri...
Majority of Irish workers are not aware of cyber security risks; Majority of 
Iri...
Business World (Digest)
May 12, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 359 words
Highlight: Data Solutions, a distributor of IT solutions, has today released research that indicates that the majority 
of employees in Irish businesses put their company at risk of cyber security breaches by using personal devices, 
social media and the cloud for wor
Body
Data Solutions, a distributor of IT solutions, has today released research that indicates that the majority of 
employees in Irish businesses put their company at risk of cyber security breaches by using personal devices, 
social media and the cloud for work purposes.
They claim that 67% of employees in Irish businesses use their own personal devices for work purposes, a quarter 
of employees said they either would not/did not know if they would report a lost or stolen personal device that has 
access to corporate data and more than half of employees share work documents via insecure cloud services.
Not surprisingly, 68% of employees admit to using personal social media accounts, such as Facebook, LinkedIn 
and Twitter, at work.
The research was commisioned by Data Solutions and carried out by the Marketing Development Programme at 
UCD Michael Smurfit Graduate Business School, among 296 working professionals across five locations in Ireland 
and among 76 IT decision makers within Irish businesses. The Data Solutions' survey uncovered a cyber-security 
risk within Irish businesses when it comes to setting out an explicit statement of rights to the retention of data on the 
personal devices that employees use for work purposes. Approximately one third of companies do not have such a 
policy in place, and about 20 per cent of employees are not aware of their employer having this policy. Director of 
technology and strategy at Data Solutions, Francis O'Haire said, "These findings should make Irish businesses sit 
up and take notice. The majority of non-IT staff aren't aware of cyber security risks associated with social media 
and cloud services, and because of this, they unknowingly put the business at risk. Recent high profile cyber-
security attacks like the Ryanair breach show that there is a real fear of cyber warfare. Companies are faced with 
the pressure of being ready for all attacks; hackers just need to find one weak link to make a huge dent in a 
Majority of Irish workers are not aware of cyber security risks Majority of Iri...
company's finances, reputation or data." The research was carried outin advance of the Secure Computing Forum 
which will take place on Thursday, 14th May. Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 15, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair moves fast with policy change requests for Cameron THECAPITALIST
Ryanair moves fast with policy change requests for Cameron; 
THECAPITALIST
City A.M.
May 12, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 137 words
Body
THE ELECTION might be over, but that doesn't mean we're going to stop hearing about it anytime soon, especially 
now that Ryanair has got in on the act.
The budget airline has released a video on its Youtube channel, congratulating David Cameron on keeping the top 
spot. However, like its leader Michael O'Leary, Ryanair never misses an opportunity to gain publicity and so the 
video also served as a plea to the Prime Minister to scrap Airport Passenger Duty (APD).
Whizzing through the Irish economic crisis in about 30 seconds, the airline informed Cameron that getting rid of 
APD in Ireland had brought in millions of euros in tourism, and concluded: "It's simple Dave. Cut APD for everyone 
and grow tourism, and we can all have a party." With a case like that to answer, the APD issue must be at the top of 
Cameron's agenda.
Graphic
 
The airline, run by Michael O'Leary, asked the returning PM to scrap Airport Passenger Duty
Load-Date: May 25, 2015
Ryanair moves fast with policy change requests for Cameron THECAPITALIST
End of Document
New this week
New this week
Sunday Business Post
May 10, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 515 words
Body
**Bibby rewards heavyweights at Punchestown Festival**
Pictured at the recent Punchestown Festival in Kildare, following the Bibby Financial Services Gold Cup race, were 
Ronan Horgan, managing director, Bibby Financial Services Ireland (centre), holding the cup with Anita O'Leary, 
wife of Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary (fourth from right), owner of winning horse Don Cossack, his brother Eddie 
(third from right) with (far left) jockey Paul Carberry, Simon Davies, chief executive of BIbby Financial Services 
Europe (second from left) Katy Stokes, marketing manager, Bibby Financial Services (second from right), and 
trainer Gordon Elliott (far right)
........
**Irish telco takes on rivals with EUR 1m data service**
Dublin-based Telcom is investing EUR 1 million in the launch of a new internet-based data service.
The company has installed a 10-gigabit Core Network, to support business-to-business data services.
Liam Tully, Telcom founder and managing director, said the move would put the Irish-owned company in direct 
competition with existing internet service providers like Eircom, Vodafone and BT.
   There's a greater demand from business customers for faster and more reliable fibre speeds,   said Tully,    and 
we've already gained a strong foothold in the voice services sector over a long number of years.  
Telcom has appointed another Dublin company, Agile Networks, to design and install the new network, which will 
be hosted in Telecitygroup's carrier-neutral data centre.
   The new customised network enables Telcom to sell an extended portfolio of services to Ireland's business 
community,   he said.
New this week
Agile Networks' managing director Darragh Richardson said the infrastructure would allow Telcom to offer a direct 
managed fibre service to companies in Ireland with    zero contention rates  .
   It will also enable businesses to avail of speeds of up to one gigabit on their voice and data networks nationwide,   
said Richardson.
   We're noticing a wider industry trend towards the 'alternative' service provider community in Ireland, which is 
offering businesses of all sizes, greater supplier choice and better coverage regionally.  
Established in 1999, Telcom offers landline, IP phone and broadband services to business customers like Green 
Property and the Higher Education Authority.
........
**Accountant partners with Retail Excellence Ireland**
RSM Farrell Grant Sparks has agreed to continue an existing partnership with Retail Excellence Ireland (REI).
The financial firm has been REI's sole accountancy partner for the past four years. Ireland's seventh largest 
accountancy firm has offices in Dublin and Longford, offering audit, assurance and business advisory and tax 
services.
   Whilst recent retail figures are showing growth in segments of the market, we appreciate that our retail clients are 
operating in a challenging environment and require more from their service providers in terms of advice and 
support,   said Jim Mulqueen, managing partner of RSM Farrell Grant Sparks.
RSM is the brand used by a network of independent accounting firms spanning 112 countries.
Load-Date: May 11, 2015
End of Document
Frontline cashes out of tech start-up
Frontline cashes out of tech start-up
Sunday Business Post
May 10, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 232 words
Body
An Irish venture capital fund backed by Declan Ryan, the son of late Ryanair founder Tony Ryan, has cashed out of 
a US start-up after leading a multimillion-euro investment in the company two years ago.
Frontline Ventures was the lead investor in a $3 million investment round in Orchestrate.io, a cloud database 
storage specialist which was purchased by major US telecommunications player CenturyLink last week.
CenturyLink last week posted revenues of EUR 4.45 billion for the first quarter of 2015.
The telecoms giant is thought to have paid between $10 million and $12 million for Orchestrate, which is based in 
the US city of Portland, Oregon.
Other investors in the deal included US funds True Ventures and Resonant Venture Partners.
The quick sale of Orchestrate represents a rapid turnaround for the Frontline investment, which has been able to 
capitalise on a hot market for cloud start-ups.
Frontline is one of the most prominent Irish investors, with a portfolio of start-up tech companies spanning the big 
data, cloud services, internet and mobile sectors.
It is headed up by former Delta Partners executive Shay Garvey, alongside IT entrepreneur former NCB Ventures 
partner Will Prendergast, William McQuillan and Kim Pham.
The company has backed several high-profile Irish start-ups in recent years, including peer-to-peer lender 
LinkedFinance.com and foreign exchange market CurrencyFair.
Load-Date: May 11, 2015
Frontline cashes out of tech start-up
End of Document
Ryanair to add over 3,000 flights across Europe Ryanair to add ...
Ryanair to add over 3,000 flights across Europe; Ryanair to add ...
Business World (Digest)
May 7, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 138 words
Highlight: Ryanair have today announced that over 3,000 extra flights across its European network for the October 
holidays, offering customers even more low fare getaways, with over 550,000 additional seats now on sale.
Body
Ryanair have today announced that over 3,000 extra flights across its European network for the October holidays, 
offering customers even more low fare getaways, with over 550,000 additional seats now on sale.
Customers will be able to choose from 190 destinations across Europe.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "European customers and visitors already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry 
leading customer service and great route choice.
Now they can also book their winter flights even earlier on our improved website and great new app, carry a free 
small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use 
their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just 
the lowest fares." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair April passenger traffic increases 16%
Ryanair April passenger traffic increases 16%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 7, 2015 Thursday 10:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 160 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of April 2015 was 9 million passengers, 
an increase of 16%, compared to 7.8 million passengers for April 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of April 2015 was 91%, an increase of seven percentage points, compared to 84% for 
April 2014. Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's April traffic grew by 16% to 9m 
customers, while our load factor jumped by 7% points to 91%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward 
bookings and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme, 
which continues to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded summer schedule. 
"Alongside our new routes, increased frequencies, Business Plus and Family Extra services, Ryanair customers 
can now look forward to further service enhancements, as we roll out Year 2 of our AGB programme in 2015, which 
includes a new website, new app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms, improved inflight menus, reduced fees, 
and great new digital features such as 'hold the fare' and price comparison services."
Load-Date: May 13, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair lays on the charm and sells more seats
Ryanair lays on the charm and sells more seats
City A.M.
May 6, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 225 words
Byline: CHARLOTTE HENRY
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair's passenger numbers soared in April, jumping 16 per cent on the same month last year.
During April, there were 9m Ryanair passengers, up from 7.8m in April 2014. Rolling annual traffic was up to 91.8m 
passengers.
The Irish airline's load factor, an industry measure of how much of an airline's capacity is actually being consumed, 
was up seven per cent from 84 per cent to 91 per cent.
The results point to the early success of chief executive Micheal O'Leary's charm offensive to improve the cutprice 
airline's image.
Ryanair's chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said the results were "thanks to our lower fares, our stronger 
forward bookings and the continuing success of our 'Always Getting Better' customer experience improvement 
programme, which continues to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded summer 
schedule."
Jacobs added that the company would be launching a new website, and app, updating its cabin interiors, giving 
crew new uniforms and improving inflight menus during the course of this year.
The airline is also looking to cement its position by reducing fees, and by adding fare freezes and price comparison 
services to its digital offering. In March, Ryanair launched a programme to boost digital innovation in the firm.
Ryanair shares closed up 1.28 per cent yesterday on the news.
Ryanair lays on the charm and sells more seats
Load-Date: May 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair in new deal with Sabre Ryanair in new ...
Ryanair in new deal with Sabre; Ryanair in new ...
Business World (Digest)
May 6, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 153 words
Highlight: It has been announced today that Ryanair and Sabre Corporation, a global technology provider to the 
travel and tourism industry, have made a deal that will see Ryanair's low fares and ancillary services made 
available to Sabre-connected travel agencies an
Body
It has been announced today that Ryanair and Sabre Corporation, a global technology provider to the travel and 
tourism industry, have made a deal that will see Ryanair's low fares and ancillary services made available to Sabre-
connected travel agencies and corporations across Europe via the Sabre global distribution system (GDS).
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair is pleased to work with Sabre as we continue to 
improve our offering to an even wider range of business and corporate customers. With more than 27% of our 
customers already traveling on business, we are continuing to enhance Europe's best business service, with the 
lowest fares, most on-time flights and our tailored Business Plus service. Business travellers, corporations and 
TMCs will now have greater access to our low fares and Europe's largest route network thanks to our agreement 
with Sabre."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 11, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa 's operating loss narrows on lower fuel costs
Lufthansa's operating loss narrows on lower fuel costs
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 5, 2015 Tuesday 8:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 271 words
Dateline: FRANKFURT, Germany 
Body
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - German airline Lufthansa, still coping with the aftermath of the crash of 
Germanwings Flight 9525, saw its operating losses narrow in the first quarter as fuel costs fell in the wake of lower 
oil prices.
Its operating loss of 167 million euros ($185 million) compared with a 240 million-euro deficit a year ago. Fuel was 
14 percent cheaper - 36 percent when the airline's hedging of fuel costs on financial markets is considered.
The airline also said it saw higher costs for pension contributions, as low interest rates mean it must put aside more 
money to meet its obligations. Six days of pilot strikes during the quarter also dented earnings.
Once everything is accounted for, Lufthansa said Tuesday that it returned to profit during the period thanks to a 503 
million-euro one-off gain as the airline accounted for realized gains on shares in U.S. airline JetBlue. Net profit 
came in at 425 million euros, an improvement on a loss of 252 million euros in the year-ago quarter.
Lufthansa is still reeling from the crash of Germanwings Flight 9525 on March 24 in southern France. Investigators 
say co-pilot Andreas Lubitz deliberately locked the pilot out of the cockpit and flew the plane into the mountains, 
killing himself and 149 others. Lubitz had been treated for depression.
Lufthansa's profitability is under pressure due to competition from low-cost carriers such as Ryanair and EasyJet on 
short-haul routes in Europe, and from state-connected airlines based in the Mideast such as Etihad, Emirates and 
Qatar Airways on long-haul routes. It faces labor strife over its efforts to reduce costs.
Load-Date: May 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces new partnership with Adobe Systems
Ryanair announces new partnership with Adobe Systems
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 5, 2015 Tuesday 6:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Technology & Telecommunications
Length: 266 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced a new partnership with Adobe Systems Incorporated which will allow 
Ryanair to enhance its app and website, and deliver a digital infrastructure.
Body
A significant partnership in European aviation, Ryanair has invested in a range of Adobe products including Adobe 
Experience Manager, Adobe Target, Adobe Analytics and Adobe Campaign, which will enhance its IT and digital 
capabilities as Ryanair implements the second year of its "Always Getting Better" customer experience 
improvement programme. A brand new Ryanair.com website, featuring personalised home pages, a 'hold the fare' 
feature and a fare comparison tool, will be launched in the autumn, along with a new mobile app, while expansion is 
continuing at Ryanair Labs, a state-of-the-art digital and IT innovation hub, based at Ryanair's Dublin Office 
Campus in Swords, which has created over 200 new jobs. 
Ryanair CMO Kenny Jacobs said: "Becoming digital leaders in the travel category is a key pillar to the Ryanair 
"Always Getting Better" plan. This partnership with Adobe will allow us to have best in class solutions for digital 
marketing across our website and app, our CRM and our customer insight and analytics. Our customers have 
enjoyed the big improvements we have made in digital and the best is yet to come. This year we will have over 
100m customers across 30 European countries, making this one of the mostly widely experienced digital and data 
transformations in any industry in Europe." Mark Zablan, President Adobe EMEA added; "Europe's favourite airline 
has made a significant investment in Adobe Marketing Cloud, and we look forward to assisting them on their 
exciting journey to provide an enhanced customer experience for the 100m customers Ryanair will carry this year."
Load-Date: May 11, 2015
End of Document
RAZOR SHARP Harriet Green talks moving on from King of Shaves, politics, a plan for Tesco and why we 
need Tinder for voting with Will King
RAZOR SHARP; Harriet Green talks moving on from King of Shaves, politics, 
a plan for Tesco and why we need Tinder for voting with Will King
City A.M.
May 5, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 1069 words
Byline: Harriet Green
Body
ICAME, I saw, I shaved, I died' isn't how I want to be remembered," quips Will King. In 1993, he founded King of 
Shaves, the popular men's toiletries brand. In frustration over the poor quality of his own products, he turned to his 
thengirlfriend's bath oil for a smoother finish. The resulting businesses, including KMI, which King of Shaves was 
demerged from in 2009, have been so successful that "of shaves" is often tacked on the end of his name.
He took on the likes of Gillette, and bought up names like Fish and Ted Baker grooming products. "I never thought 
I'd end up being called an entrepreneur. At the time, we were in a recession. I'd just been made redundant from a 
marketing job and I knew I had to do something. It turned out that I'd set off on a 22 year journey".
But since stepping down last October (when he handed the crown to lieutenant Andy Hill), King has been focusing 
on the new. Channeling over two decades of experience, he has joined the board of entrepreneur network 
E2Exchange, whose president is Richard Branson, and last year set up the Entrepreneur in Residence Company, 
helping to inject "entrepreneurial traits" at c-suite level and support high-growth firms.
One of King's first clients is Future-Gov, a fast-growing UK firm which, in a bid to increase efficiency and 
productivity, designs and implements digital technology into local government. "Bureaucrats are using these old 
systems at work, then going home and using LinkedIn and Facebook. We've got austerity-heavy or austerity-lite 
coming down the tracks. We must save money; local government and the NHS need to be more efficient."
TECHNOPHILE This is when you realise just how excited King is about the future - not just his own, but everyone 
else's too. A self-professed "knowledge Dyson", he has always recognised that it's no good just cooing over 
RAZOR SHARP Harriet Green talks moving on from King of Shaves, politics, a plan for Tesco and why we 
need Tinder for voting with Will King
technology; you need to use it. While leading King of Shaves, he patented hyperglide self-lubricating razors, and 
launched a shaving bond on an online platform back in 2009 - significantly ahead of most businesses that claim to 
have spearheaded peer-to-peer lending. "It was a bond that helped us bond with our customers. I wanted to call it 
'Bond, Shave Bond, 007 per cent'".
He'll happily talk at length about the rise of fintech and the enormous opportunities that it affords businesses. "It 
makes sense. People really hate banks. Their behavioural metrics have been on the scale of Ryanair - and that 
only got better because it improved its offering to customers. Banks were always just what you did. Now, there's an 
opportunity to hold your money securely. You use firms like Ratesetter, Market Invoice etc because you like what 
those businesses stand for".
I ask him about virtual currencies (for good measure). "Forget Bitcoin," he says. "Have you heard of Ripple? You 
know in the future that an iteration of that is what will power the stock markets". Ripple, unlike Bitcoin, is a payment 
network, rather than a currency, and isn't dependent on mining.
SWIPE TO VOTE YES But it's blockchain, the versatile digital authenticating software behind Bitcoin, that's behind 
King's excitement at the moment. In the run-up to the General Election, one particular idea has been stuck in his 
mind: Tinder for voting. In a climate of disillusionment, particularly among young people, "voting needs to pivot", he 
says. Imagine downloading a temporary app which allows you to flick through politicians' faces and policies, and 
cast your vote with a click. "It'd personify the no attention span, rate or slate, selfie world we live in - iVoting, if you 
like."
Blockchain provides a date and timestamped audit trail which proves that a transaction (or the casting of a vote) 
has taken place. "It's extremely cost efficient and is increasingly being - cautiously - looked at by banks and 
financial institutions looking to reduce friction in complex data matching. It could revolutionise how we vote."
King, who was brought up by teacher parents in a Labour household, is fearful about Thursday. "I was excited in 
'97. We need that kind of enthusiasm now, and we simply don't have it. What will we get if Miliband gets in? 
Milifandom and the bonus of Katie Hopkins leaving the country. The Tories have done a good job, net, but I'm 
worried that it's egos, not policies, driving both the main parties."
A SPOONFUL OF SUGAR It's not just the government getting a dose of advice: banks, he says, have "an 
obligation to embrace what's coming. Regardless of the rise of alternative finance, they need to work be-cause they 
employ so many people. If they don't, they run the risk of what has happened to Tesco."
King, as you might expect, has some incisive ideas for that struggling retailer. Having long known Richard Brasher, 
its former UK boss, and having sold to the retail giant for years, he is quick to highlight that the supermarket failed 
to grasp change - and now needs to do something pretty quickly. "It has this land bank - a huge asset. It could build 
socially affordable, mixed-use housing and anchor them to Tesco Metros. It needs to reconnect with the people who 
used it every day. Sometimes, you need to say 'we made some mistakes'. Tesco employs over 300,000 people; 
again, any company that size has a duty to improve and keep people in work." This, along with a similar offering to 
Aldi and Lidl - an "OsTec, say" - which would sell discounted third party goods would help the retailer get back on 
track, says King. "For sure, Tesco can pivot. But it has to do it in an unusual way."
PLAYING THE GAME An element of the unusual matters to King for entrepreneurship. "Yes, it's never been easier 
to set up a business. But that means that it's never been easier for anybody else to set up a business." 
"Wantrepreneurs" are rife, he says - but just toying with starting a company - even setting one up - doesn't 
necessarily entitle you to the label. For him, being an entrepreneur means taking on an abnormal level of risk. "It 
means that you're not just matching expectations; being the best at whatever you can do is stripped right down to 
the bone, every day. People don't realise how valuable time is." The most astonishing innovations are down to 
those who do realise - "you have a certain number of seconds in a day. You can get most things back in life, but 
you can't get a second back."
I was excited in '97. We need that kind of enthusiasm now, and we simply don't have it '
RAZOR SHARP Harriet Green talks moving on from King of Shaves, politics, a plan for Tesco and why we 
need Tinder for voting with Will King
Graphic
 
King is deploying his decades of entrepreneurial expertise to help numerous other businesses
Load-Date: May 5, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair lower customer airport fees Ryanair lower c...
Ryanair lower customer airport fees; Ryanair lower c...
Business World (Digest)
May 5, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 189 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced todaythat it will lower its missed departure fee and airport check-in fees, the 
latest initiatives under the second year of its 3-year "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement 
programme.
Body
Ryanair has announced todaythat it will lower its missed departure fee and airport check-in fees, the latest 
initiatives under the second year of its 3-year "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement 
programme.
The airport check-in fee has been reduced from E70 to E45, and its missed departure fee has been reduced from 
E110 to E100. These fee reductions follow an enhanced sports equipment service, offering 5 separate sports 
options and lower fees for smaller items, with further services improvements and digital developments to be 
introduced over the coming year.
Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Europe's customers have always chosen Ryanair for our low 
fares and great choice of routes and through our "Always Getting Better" programme, we are continuing to improve 
our customer experience.
Having enhanced our sports equipment offering, today we have lowered our missed departure and airport check-in 
fees, the latest in an on-going series of changes and we will continue to listen and improve, ensuring even greater 
choice and service for our 100m annual customers." Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair April Traffic, Load Factor Increase - Quick Facts
Ryanair April Traffic, Load Factor Increase - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
May 5, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 136 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L,RYAAY) said that its traffic for the month of April 
2015 rose 16% to 9.0 million customers from 7.8 million customers in the same month of prior year.
Monthly load factor improved 7 percent to 91 percent from 84 percent last year.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said,"Ryanair's April traffic grew by 16% to 9m customers, while 
our load factor jumped by 7% points to 91%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward bookings and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme, which continues 
to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded summer schedule.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: May 5, 2015
End of Document
Carriers change course after Gulf rift splits AEA Travel & leisure
Carriers change course after Gulf rift splits AEA; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
May 4, 2015 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 438 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Body
European airlines are drawing up plans for a new trade body after a row over the strength of the Gulf carriers 
prompted members, including International Airlines Group, to pull out.
The new group could include the airlines that walked out of the Association of European Airlines and low-cost 
carriers such as easyJet.
"We have to sit together to define the common denominator and our differences," said Lufthansa, which stayed in 
the AEA. "It is a good starting point for restructuring the whole airline association landscape in Europe."
At the moment there are several European trade bodies, including those for regional or low-fare airlines. John 
Strickland, an aviation consultant, said the lack of strong united representation would hamper airlines.
The AEA rift goes to the heart of disagreement in the aviation industry about the increasing dominance of the 
Middle Eastern airlines.
The dispute spurred IAG, the parent of British Airways and Spain's Iberia, to defect last month to the European 
association for low-fares airlines. Air Berlin, which cited concerns about "protectionist policies", and Italian flag 
carrier Alitalia have left and have not joined any trade body.
Carriers change course after Gulf rift splits AEA Travel & leisure
All three count Gulf airlines as significant shareholders. Qatar Airways has 10 per cent of IAG and Etihad Airways 
holds 29.2 per cent of Air Berlin and 49 per cent of Alitalia.
Remaining members were upset by the sudden exits, but publicly the AEA has played them down, saying it had not 
taken a position on the debate. "We strongly deny we are a protectionist association," said Geert Sciot, head of 
communications at the AEA. "The chairman of AEA would not be the head of Turkish Airlines if so."
The crisis will be compounded by a diminished budget - a small airline pays EUR50,000 to EUR80,000 a year for 
membership, rising to about EUR220,000 for large airlines. Privately members conceded that the episode raised 
questions about the future of a trade body with just 24 members. "I'm not sure what the purpose in life is for the 
AEA now," said one industry figure.
Others said the split over the Gulf airlines pointed to a lack of leadership. Since it was founded in the 1950s, the 
AEA has compiled industry data and lobbied for its members. But it lost influence from the 1990s as low-cost 
carriers such as Ryanair, which were not members, became dominant.
At a recent meeting the secretary-general of the Arab trade body of airlines, who had been invited to speak, faced 
hostile questions from Air France and Lufthansa about whether his members benefited from hidden state subsidies. 
"It was hugely transparent and quite embarrassing," an observer said.
Load-Date: May 3, 2015
End of Document
Time for bus unions to call off the strike
Time for bus unions to call off the strike
Sunday Business Post
May 3, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 401 words
Body
The bus unions have already seen off one transport minister who was keen on privatising part of the public bus 
services.
More than a decade ago, Fianna Fáil's Seamus Brennan announced plans to tender out 25 per cent of Dublin Bus 
services.
The bus unions mobilised and threatened strike action, as well as complaining loudly to then taoiseach Bertie Ahern 
and his ministers. It certainly worked - Brennan lost his job as transport minister in the cabinet reshuffle and all talk 
of bus privatisation came to an end.
The peace deal with unions at the time was that existing services would stay with Dublin Bus and Bus Eireann, 
while new services would be opened up to private operators. But the dawning of the recession meant this never 
happened because the market for bus transport shrank instead of expanding.
When Fine Gael came into government, it was determined to put the issue back on the agenda. Labour was willing 
to agree to the figure of 10 per cent of routes being tendered, given that many in Fine Gael were pushing for much 
more. It believed that Siptu was also on board.
But the rival union, the National Bus and Rail Union, never signed up. Now both unions are trying to outdo each 
other to ensure that no privitisation of routes takes place at all - just as they did in 2003.
But if they are providing such an excellent service, what are they afraid of?
The National Transport Authority certainly believes that there is scope for savings of up to 10 per cent if there is 
competitive tendering for public bus routes. That would free up more money to invest in a better public transport 
service or reduce ticket prices further for commuters.
Time for bus unions to call off the strike
It is worth remembering that there were similar protests from Aer Lingus when, back in 1985, the late Fine Gael 
minister Jim Mitchell granted Ryanair a licence to fly from Dublin to London. The cost of flights between the two 
capitals plummeted, and passengers were the clear winners.
So far this weekend, the passengers have been the losers. The decision of the bus unions to strike for two days has 
also damaged businesses and hurt our vital tourism industry at a time when the economy is only beginning to 
recover. The prospect of another five days of bus strikes later this month is unthinkable.
It is time for the bus unions to call off their strikes. Yes, bus drivers are entitled to make a decent living. But so are 
those working for private bus companies.
Load-Date: May 4, 2015
End of Document
Update: Irish government agrees to sell Aer Lingus to IAG
Update: Irish government agrees to sell Aer Lingus to IAG
AirFinance Journal
May 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,NORTH AMERICA,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,AIRPORTS,CAPITAL,BREAKING 
NEWS,IRELAND,SPAIN,UK,USA
Length: 297 words
Byline: Michael Allen
Highlight: UK airline conglomerate now needs approval of Ryanair and the Irish parliament to ensure the deal can 
go ahead.
Body
The Irish government has agreed to sell its 25.11% stake in Aer Lingus to International Airlines Group (IAG), 
according to a statement released by Ireland's Department of Transport, Tourism and Sport.
IAG's offer for the Irish airline was made on January 27 2015. It valued Aer Lingus at â,¬1.36 billion ($1.55 billion), 
with each share at â,¬2.55 (US$2.90), comprising of a cash offer of â,¬2.50 and a dividend of â,¬0.05 per share.
Aer Lingus' board recommended the offer to the Irish government. The government sought some guarantees from 
the English-Spanish airline conglomerate, including Aer Lingus keeping its existing slots at Heathrow and keeping 
its headquarters in Ireland.
The Irish parliament and Ryanair now need to accept the offer if the deal is to go ahead. The Irish parliament (The 
DÃ¡il) is due to vote on whether or not to approve the sale of the government's share in Aer Lingus later today. 
Ryanair, which owns a 29.8% stake in Aer Lingus, has not yet disclosed whether it will accept or reject the IAG 
offer.
IAG is the parent company of airlines British Airways, Vueling and Iberia.
Aer Lingus has a fleet of 46 aircraft, mainly made up of A320s.
"The Transatlantic is a strong part of our network and we intend to bring Aer Lingus into the World Alliance and into 
our transatlantic business with American Airlines and Finnair," IAG CEO Willy Walsh said.
"Aer Lingus would be able to capture a larger share of the Europe to North America connecting passengers and will 
benefit from the sales of the joint business partners, particularly American Airlines at the US end of the route."
IAG added that the offer was final and would not be increased.
To see all of Aer Lingus' recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Update: Irish government agrees to sell Aer Lingus to IAG
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com"[
Load-Date: June 15, 2015
End of Document
IAG purchase of Aer Lingus set for take-off Travel & leisure
IAG purchase of Aer Lingus set for take-off; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
May 1, 2015 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 17
Length: 454 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger and Nathalie Thomas in London
Highlight: Talks with the Irish government have been constructive, says chief
Body
The fate of Aer Lingus is close to being decided as International Airlines Group and the Dublin government near a 
compromise over the terms of the UK based airline's EUR1.4bn bid for Ireland's national carrier.
Willie Walsh , IAG chief executive, said discussions with the Irish government over Dublin's 25.1 per cent stake in 
Aer Lingus had been "generally constructive". He hoped "they will be in a position to make a decision in the next 
couple of weeks".
IAG has made its bid conditional on acceptance by the government and Aer Lingus's largest shareholder, Ryanair, 
which has a 29.9 per cent stake.
The IAG chief was speaking yesterday as he unveiled the airline group's first operating profit in a traditionally slow 
first quarter since its creation through the merger of British Airways and Iberia of Spain in 2011. The results 
reinforced confidence that IAG would meet its forecast to generate an operating profit of more than EUR2.2bn this 
year compared with EUR1.4bn in 2014.
Mr Walsh's comments about Aer Lingus will fuel speculation that five months of wrangling over its future are 
drawing to an end. The stumbling block has been IAG's offer to leave Aer Lingus's 23 Ireland-focused slots at 
London's Heathrow airport for only five years. Dublin is demanding a 10-year guarantee in an effort to damp 
political controversy over the sale of its stake.
IAG purchase of Aer Lingus set for take-off Travel & leisure
The Financial Times reported in March that the two sides were discussing a compromise on the duration of the 
guarantee but Mr Walsh refused to comment. However, no pressure would be put on Dublin to decide quickly, he 
said.
People close to the situation suggested that a guarantee of seven years could be possible if IAG were given 
commercial comfort - over airport landing charges, for example. IAG is also expected to offer reassurances to 
Dublin over the future of routes into regional airports such as Shannon, Cork and Knock.
Mr Walsh defended the Gulf carriers that have been accused by some US and European airlines of receiving illegal 
subsidies from their state owners. The biggest shareholder in IAG is Qatar Airways with a 10 per cent stake. Mr 
Walsh said the rapid growth of carriers such as Dubai-based Emirates Airline had been "very rational competition" 
and had benefited the industry.
He said IAG had in the first quarter benefited from improvements at all three of its carriers, which also include 
Barcelona-based budget airline Vueling.
In the three months to March 31, IAG generated an operating profit of EUR25m, compared with a EUR150m loss 
for the same period last year. Revenue was up 12 per cent to EUR4.7bn. Fuel costs fell by 4.5 per cent, but Mr 
Walsh said they were likely to rise in the second quarter due to hedging and currency effects.
See Lex
Load-Date: April 30, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches Scotland winter 2015 schedule
Ryanair launches Scotland winter 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 30, 2015 Thursday 2:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 312 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its Scotland winter 2015 schedule with 32 routes in total, including two new 
Edinburgh routes to Frankfurt Hahn and Santander, and a new Glasgow International route to Berlin.
Body
Ryanair's Scotland winter 2015 schedule will deliver over 3.5m customers p.a. and support over 3,500 "on-site"jobs 
in Scotland. Ryanair's Scotland winter 2015 schedule at Edinburgh will deliver: 2 new routes to Frankfurt Hahn (2 x 
weekly) and Santander (2 x weekly); 18 routes in total; more flights on 5 routes: Alicante, Krakow, London Stansted 
(3 to 4 x daily), Malaga & Tenerife; 2m customers p.a.; and 2,000"on-site"jobs p.a. Ryanair's Scotland winter 2015 
schedule at Glasgow International will deliver: 8 routes in total; 1 new route to Berlin (4 x weekly); More flights to 
London Stansted (3 to 4 x daily); 1m customers p.a.; and 1,000"on-site"jobs p.a. Ryanair's Scotland winter 2015 
schedule at Prestwick will deliver: 6 routes in total; more flights to Alicante 550,000 customers p.a.; and 550"on-
site"jobs p.a. Scottish customers and visitors can now choose 32 routes to/from Edinburgh, Glasgow International 
and Glasgow Prestwick next winter, while enjoying allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a 
new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding passes, and Ryanair's Family Extra and Business Plus 
services, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, business and leisure travellers. 
In Edinburgh, Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our Scotland winter 2015 schedule, 
with 2 new Edinburgh routes to Frankfurt and Santander, and a new Glasgow International route to Berlin, which 
will help deliver over 3.5m customers p.a. and support 3,500 on site jobs at Scottish airports. "Ryanair will continue 
to connect Scotland with Europe's key centres of business, with more flights and improved schedules to and from 
major cities including Brussels, Dublin and London (increasing from 3 to 4 times daily), making Ryanair the ideal 
choice for business customers, and reaffirming Edinburgh as a gateway to Europe."
Load-Date: May 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces new deal with Adobe Ryanair announc...
Ryanair announces new deal with Adobe; Ryanair announc...
Business World (Digest)
April 30, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 184 words
Highlight: Ryanair has today announced a new deal with Adobe which will allow Ryanair to further enhance its app 
and website and deliver a world class digital infrastructure by using Adobe software.
Body
Ryanair has today announced a new deal with Adobe which will allow Ryanair to further enhance its app and 
website and deliver a world class digital infrastructure by using Adobe software.
Ryanair has invested in a range of Adobe products including Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Target, Adobe 
Analytics and Adobe Campaign, which will enhance its IT and digital capabilities as Ryanair implements the second 
year of its "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme.
Ryanair CMO Kenny Jacobs said, "Becoming digital leaders in the travel category is a key pillar to the Ryanair 
"Always Getting Better" plan. This partnership with Adobe will allow us to have best in class solutions for digital 
marketing across our website and app, our CRM and our customer insight and analytics. Our customers have 
enjoyed the big improvements we have made in digital and the best is yet to come. This year we will have over 
100m customers across 30 European countries, making this one of the mostly widely experienced digital and data 
transformations in any industry in Europe."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 5, 2015
End of Document
O'Leary's charm offensive fails to impress Chinese hackers
O'Leary's charm offensive fails to impress Chinese hackers
City A.M.
April 30, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 145 words
Body
RYANAIR chairman Michael O'Leary's charm offensive designed to win over customers hasn't seemed to reach 
China. The no frills airline boss, who recently spoke out about the need to improve customer service to prevent 
"unnecessarily pissing people off," confirmed yesterday that hackers stole almost £3.25m from its accounts, using 
an electronic transfer via a Chinese bank.
A spokesman for the company said that Ryanair investigated a fraudulent electronic transfer via a Chinese bank 
last week.
"The airline expects these funds to be repaid shortly, and has taken steps to ensure that this type of transfer cannot 
recur".
Having been fined £500,000 for operating premium rate customer service phone numbers earlier this year, it seems 
O'Leary might regret saying that, "the war is won, we are the greatest" and accept the karmic low budget ethos: you 
get what you pay for.
Graphic
 
Michael O'Leary has failed to convince some people in the world of Ryanair's niceness
Load-Date: April 30, 2015
O'Leary's charm offensive fails to impress Chinese hackers
End of Document
Ryanair to launch three new services from Copenhagen
Ryanair to launch three new services from Copenhagen
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 28, 2015 Tuesday 1:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 134 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced that it will launch three new services from Copenhagen to Alicante, Budapest 
and Malaga from October 2015, as part of Ryanair's 2015 winter schedule.
Body
These 3 new routes will add to Ryanair's 9 Copenhagen routes to (Brussels, Cologne, Dublin, London, Madrid, 
Milan, Rome, Stockholm and Warsaw). In its first full year at Copenhagen, Ryanair will deliver almost 2m customers 
and support 2,000on-site jobs at Copenhagen Airport. Ryanair's Winter 2015 Copenhagen schedule will deliver: 12 
routes to Alicante, Budapest, Brussels, Cologne, Dublin, London, Madrid, Malaga, Milan, Rome, Stockholm & 
Warsaw; up to 2m customers; and up to 2,000 "on-site" jobs p.a. Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, David O'Brien 
said: "Ryanair celebrated its continued Copenhagen growth by releasing 100,000 seats for sale across its 
European network, at prices from 149DKK for travel in May and June. These low fare seats are available for 
booking until midnight Thurs (23rd Apr)."
Load-Date: May 4, 2015
End of Document
The week in business
The week in business
Sunday Business Post
April 26, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1202 words
Body
**Ryan joins attack of the drones**
   I am in a Hailo cab, en route,   Jay Bregman texts. Of course he is. The co-founder of the app that became the 
biggest disruptor in the taxi business since combustion engines replaced horses may have left that business to 
pursue his passion for drones - through new company Verifly - but he's still a huge fan.
He arrives talking 19 to the dozen and is so warm and effusive that I forgive him for proposing - as Americans are 
wont to do - that we meet at the ungodly hour of 8am. I'm chugging coffee, he's sipping mineral water.
Drone innovation is going to be as big as the internet and as much a part of everyday life, an evangelical Bregman 
told me.
And Declan Ryan, the aviation tycoon son of Ryanair founder Tony, agrees with him. So much so that he has 
opened his wallet and backed the start-up.
   Very few people in aviation who aren't extremely boring understand drones,   said Bregman of the low-profile 
tycoon.    And, like low-cost flying, this is an important evolution. I believe he felt they were going to be the next big 
thing. We're very fortunate to have found him.  
Ryan's Irelandia Aviation came on board for the first EUR 2 million funding round for the Dublin and New York-
based company that's developing tools to help drones navigate safely.
He recalled his first meeting with Ryan at his offices.    The boardroom table was a little oddly shaped. Then I 
realised - of course, it was made out of the wing of a plane.  
But how far are we from having our packages and our pizzas delivered by drones?
   It's already happening,   Bregman said.
The week in business
   Drones [are] taking aerial photos at weddings, estate agents are using drone pics of properties, drones [are] flying 
toys. Then we're only a couple of years away from drones making deliveries. Where you would have brought your 
camera, you'll soon be bringing your drone. Behaviour is changing quite quickly.  
In the US, where drones are banned for commercial use, it could be a longer journey, but Europe, and particularly 
Ireland, are receptive.
   This will clearly be a market where Europe takes the lead in regulation and the US follows,   Bregman said.
He hopes the business will exceed EUR 100 million-backed Hailo in growth and scale, and become truly 
international. He is actively hiring engineers for Dublin now.
......................
**Digital dial down at INM**
Before I arrived at this parish, I used to earn my coin at Independent News & Media. While there, I remember 
getting a briefing from a digital consultant called Mike van Niekerk, who had been retained by INM to help 
spearhead its digital transformation.
He had just arrived in the northern hemisphere and our ways were new to him: he hadn't heard of the Mail Online 
app (one of the few revenue-generating digital news outfits around) or the Guardian's digital propositions 
(considered to be pioneering). But he soon caught up, and INM now boasts a fast-growing digital arm, rapidly rising 
online revenue streams and a hugely clicked-on news site.
Well, having designed and implemented the transformation project at INM (creating a    digital-first, seven-day 
newsroom   across the Sindo, Indo and Herald in the process), van Niekerk is now relocating to New Zealand.
It's another departure from its senior online team following digital business head Fiona O'Carroll's exit announced 
earlier this month. Garry Walsh, INM's most senior digital advertising executive, has also left.
......................
**Suing for a slice of litigant pie**
Is the British legal firm backing a potential game changing Irish court case eyeing up more business here? It might 
just be, as I see that one of its top people gave a talk here recently.
Harbour Litigation Funding is backing Persona, the unsuccessful bidder for the country's second mobile phone 
licence.
The Persona/Sigma consortium lost out to Denis O'Brien's Esat Digifone consortium and is taking a case against 
the state over the contract.
Harbour's head of funding litigation, Susan Dunn, spoke at Ireland's first Litigation Funding conference in Dublin last 
month.
Harbour will fund Persona's litigation in return for a stake in the proceeds - if it's allowed to. First, it must be decided 
by the court whether Irish legal rules allow such an arrangement.
Even Harbour's own view of that prospect is unsure.
   The position as regards litigation funding in Ireland is presently uncertain and awaits a definitive ruling,   its 
website says. The judge in the case will hear an application on the arrangement next month.
......................
The week in business
**Failed Luas tenderers make tracks for court**
I see that one of the consortiums that lost out in the bidding to build the Luas Cross City project has lodged High 
Court proceedings against the Railway Procurement Agency. Why? Well, I am reliably told that it relates to the 
tender process.
Portuguese giant Somague teamed up with Mayo engineering firm Wills Bros for the tender to extend and link the 
green and red Luas lines (yes, yes, they are finally going to be linked).
Worth EUR 370 million, the Samogue bid lost out, with the contract awarded to a joint venture team of Sisk and 
another Portuguese firm, Steconfer.
Somague is a construction firm with major international infrastructure contracts and Wills Bros is the Foxford based 
company run by Charles and James Wills. Neither responded when contacted last week.
A spokesman for the Railway Procurement Agency said that it would vigorously defend the legal challenge.    We 
are fully confident that the tender process was carried out properly and will defend any challenge to that process,   
he told me.
I am curious to see which will be finished first: the case or the Luas Cross City project.
......................
**Irish designer's 'glove love' for Grant**
Last Friday, actor Richard E Grant flew into Dublin for an appearance on The Late Late Show, and to launch his 
perfume range at Brown Thomas.
He was also catching up with the Irish glove designer Paula Rowan, whose wares are favoured by celebrities such 
as Kate Moss and Helen Mirren.
Rowan met Grant in London at a trade show where they had neighbouring stalls. They hit it off and the two are 
collaborating on a scented glove range, matching his perfume with her design and launching in September.
   There's a rich tradition of collaboration between scent and gloves,   Rowan told me.    Leather has a strong smell 
and perfumes were used to mask it. I was telling Richard this and when I got back home I came up with the idea of 
doing a glove - one for men and one for women - in collaboration with Richard's scent.  
Rowan has also teamed up with Ireland and Leinster player Fergus McFadden to produce a Rugby World Cup-
themed creation, she told me. It's a men's toiletry bag in the shape of a vintage rugby ball.
......................
**Tweete of the week**
   Wonga just reported loss of £37 million  
ITV News's consumer editor Chris Choi (@ChrisITV) on the payday lender which recently shut its Dublin-based 
technology office.
......................
**Word on the street**
Shelbourne FC's future at its home ground is still looking uncertain, with no deal with leaseholder developer Jerry 
O'Reilly on a pay off or land swap nailed down so far at Tolka Park.
The week in business
Load-Date: April 27, 2015
End of Document
Class warfare, five miles up
Class warfare, five miles up
Financial Times (London, England)
April 25, 2015 Saturday
Europe Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 20
Length: 820 words
Byline: Douglas Coupland
Highlight: Observations Douglas Coupland reflects on the perils of not flying economy
Body
OK. So I'm in Berlin and scheduled to fly to London on Lufthansa at 6.10pm - however, a meeting comes up so I 
look up a later flight but learn there are no later Lufthansa flights. Who else flies to London? The answer: Ryanair. 
But wait. I've never flown with them, and aren't they the ones where people fly standing up so they can get more 
people on to the plane? Surely not. Well, what could possibly go wrong on such a short flight anyway? So I buy my 
ticket online and go to the formerly East German Schönefeld airport. But something is amiss . . . the airport building 
has miraculously time-travelled from the early 1970s and has endured much battering along the way. Have I 
wormholed into another time/space continuum? No problem. I can pretend I'm in high school on an exchange 
programme - it'll be fun.
However, it turns out I bought the online ticket for the wrong day (@#$%!) so I buy a new ticket at the airport 
counter and head to the gate, stepping gingerly around brawling sunburned travellers and glistening puddles of 
vomit. Remember, Doug: think high school - this is an adventure.
I arrive at the gate but something's wrong with my ticket. My German's not good enough to know what the problem 
is. I'm told to sit in a stanchioned off area and . . . whatever. Then comes the announcement, Meine Damen und 
Herren . . . it's boarding time, and suddenly the room goes silent and everyone turns to look at me with hate in their 
bloodshot, booze-ravaged eyes. Huh? I then listen closely and it turns out they're pre-boarding passengers in 
Class warfare, five miles up
"Ryanair Business Plus" - which would be . . . me? So the silent room, filled with maybe 200 people, watches me 
stand up, get my boarding pass bleeped and enter the plane's jet ramp. Well, that was uncomfortable.
Once inside, I'm shown to my Business Plus seat, which is in the exit row above the wings. The seat is a regular 
seat but there's a good 6ft of space in front of me. Not bad. Like anyone, I hate no leg room. However, the price for 
my seated comfort is that I have to endure a 30-minute parade of hate and loathing as other non-Business Plus 
passengers lumber past me, muttering highly ungenerous things to the back of my head.
Finally, the door up front closes and I see that the plane is totally packed - all except for my row of six seats all to 
myself. A gentleman from the row in front of me tries to reasonably spread out into one of these seats but is harshly 
singled out by a flight attendant, who makes sure it's painfully clear that these seats are exclusively for the use of 
Business Plus customers.
Once in the air? Complimentary wine. Complimentary magazines. A selection of hot meals. It's actually kind of 
great and time passes quickly and, before I know it, we've landed at Stansted airport - another airport I've never 
seen before. After a long hike I get to the luggage carousel without having been tripped and belittled by my Ryanair 
co-passengers. Once at the carousel, I come to the conclusion that Stansted isn't so much an airport but is, rather, 
a Burger King with a prison attached. An hour later, I find my suitcase, grab a cab, and my unplanned exercise in 
social mobility comes to a close. At the hotel I look up the price difference for my seat: about EUR50.
What is it about business class that brings out some of the weirdest and deepest class responses we experience in 
a given year? I have a hunch airlines do as much as they can to ensure those not seated behind the blue curtain 
are fully aware of what's happening behind it.
Some business class flights are amazing, like an Emirates A380 from Dubai to New York, filled mostly with expats 
coming or going from/to six-month stints living in walled compounds, with everybody getting hammered for opposite 
reasons. They also have great WiFi but there's something really odd about enjoying WiFi when the in-flight map 
tells you you're directly above Baghdad. And then you're above Romania. And then . . . and then your mind 
wanders off to poor old Malaysia Airlines and you take your mind off things by watching old 1983 Duran Duran 
videos on YouTube.
Business class on KLM is no-nonsense. They give you one drink, then a slightly better hot meal than in the back of 
the plane and then . . . no more anything, and if you ask for even a cracker they make this face at you. It's hard to 
describe . . . sort of like, "So you think you're better than everyone else on this plane, do you?" I mean, airlines, is it 
really that hard not to make a face if a passenger asks for a second drink in whatever class?
Enough talk about class. It only puts people in a bad mood. Besides, the only class I want is what politicians 
probably get: a general anaesthetic and they revive you 30 minutes before you land in Washington or Moscow. Can 
I get you a hot moist towel, Mr President?
Douglas Coupland's most recent book is a non-fiction title, 'The Age of Earthquakes', published by Penguin, 
@dougcoupland
Load-Date: April 24, 2015
End of Document
Biz Klass Observations
Biz Klass; Observations
Financial Times (London, England)
April 25, 2015 Saturday
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT MAGAZINE; Pg. 13
Length: 862 words
Byline: Douglas Coupland
Highlight: Another drink to go with your dinner, sir? Unexpected class warfare five miles up
Body
OK. So I'm in Berlin and scheduled to fly to London on Lufthansa at 6:10pm - however, a meeting comes up so I 
look up a later flight but learn there are no later Lufthansa flights. Who else flies to London? The answer: Ryanair. 
But wait. I've never flown with them, and aren't they the ones where people fly standing up so they can get more 
people on to the plane? Surely not. Well, what could possibly go wrong on such a short flight anyway? So I buy my 
ticket online and go to the formerly East German Schoenefeld Airport. But something is amiss... the airport building 
has miraculously time-travelled from the early 1970sand has endured much battering along the way. Have I 
wormholed into another time/space continuum? No problem. I can pretend I'm in high school on an exchange 
programme - it'll be fun.
However, it turns out I bought the online ticket for the wrong day (@#$%!) so I buy a new ticket at the airport 
counter and head to the gate, stepping gingerly around brawling sunburnt travellers and glistening puddles of vomit. 
Remember, Doug: think high school - this is an adventure.
I arrive at the gate but something's wrong with my ticket.My German's not good enough to know what the problem 
is. I'm told to sit in a stanchioned off area and... whatever. Read your newspaper. Try to see the mirth in everything. 
Then comes the announcement, Meine Damen undHerren... it's boarding time, andsuddenly the room goes silent 
and everyone turns to look at me with hate in their bloodshot, booze-ravaged eyes. Huh? I then listen closely and it 
turns out they're pre-boarding passengers in "Ryanair Business Plus" - which would be... me? So the silent room, 
filled with maybe 200 people, watches me stand up, get my boarding pass bleeped and enter theplane's jet ramp. 
Well, that wasuncomfortable.
Biz Klass Observations
Once inside, I'm actually oddly disappointed the seats aren't arranged in a vertical sarcophagus mode - that would 
have been cool - but I am instead shown to my Business Plus seat, which is in the exit row above the wings. The 
seat is a regular seat but there's a good six feet of space in front of me. Not bad. Like anyone, I hate no leg room. 
However, the price for my seated comfort is that I have to endure a 30-minute parade of hate and loathing as other 
non-Business Plus passengers lumber past me, muttering highly ungenerous things to the back of my head.
Finally the door up front closes and I see that the plane is totally packed - all except for my row of six seats all to 
myself. A gentleman from the row in front of me tries to reasonably spread out into one of these seats but is harshly 
singled out by a flight attendant who makes sure it's painfully clear that these seats are exclusively for the use of 
Business Plus customers. Further laser beams of hate are shot my way. The plane lifts off.
Once in the air? Complimentary wine. Complimentary magazines. A selection of hot meals. It's actually kind of 
great and time passes quickly and, before I know it, we've landed at Stansted Airport - another airport I've never 
seen before. After a long hike I get to the luggage carousel without having been tripped and belittled by my Ryanair 
co-passengers. Once at the carousel, I come to the conclusion that Stansted isn't so much an airport but is, rather, 
a Burger King with a prison attached to it. An hour later, I find my suitcase, I grab a cab, and my unplanned exercise 
in social mobility comes to a close. At the hotel I look up the price difference for my seat: about EU50.
What is it about business class that brings out some of the weirdest and deepest class responses we experience in 
a given year? I have a hunch airlines do as much as they can to ensure that those not seated behind the blue 
curtain are fully aware of what's happening behind it.
Some business class flights are amazing, like an Emirates A380 from Dubai to New York, filled mostly with expats 
coming or going from/to six-month stints living in walled compounds, with everybody getting hammered for opposite 
reasons. They also have great WiFi but there's something really odd about enjoying WiFi when the inflight map tells 
you you're directly above Baghdad. And then you're above Romania. And then... and then your mind wanders off to 
poor old Malaysian Airlines and you take your mind off things by watching old 1983 Duran Duran videos on 
YouTube.
Business class on KLM is no-nonsense. They give you one drink, then a slightly better hot meal than in the back of 
the plane and then... no more anything, and if you ask for even a cracker they make this face at you. It's hard to 
describe... sort of like, "So you think you're better than everyone else on this plane, do you?" I mean, airlines, is it 
really that hard to not make a face if a passenger asks for a second drink in whatever class?
Enough talk about class. It only puts people in a bad mood. Besides, the only class I want is what politicians 
probably get: a general anaesthetic and they revive you 30 minutes before you land in Washington or Moscow. Can 
I get you a hot moist towel, Mr President?
Douglas Coupland's most recent book is a non-fiction title, "The Age of Earthquakes", published by Penguin. Twitter 
@dougcoupland
Load-Date: April 24, 2015
End of Document
For goodness, sake: Japan's favourite drink returns; MIX IT UP
For goodness, sake: Japan's favourite drink returns; MIX IT UP
City A.M.
April 22, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 479 words
Byline: PHILIP SALTER
Body
Learning to drink is like learning to read, in as much as you should start with the easy stuff, although it is generally 
advised that you perfect the latter before indulging in the former. Nobody could ever learn English by reading James 
Joyce (except, perhaps, someone with the intellect of James Joyce), while you'll struggle to get the most out of a 
cocktail if your palate is unfamiliar with what's in it. Some cocktails don't need any deconstruction. We all know what 
a spirit like vodka tastes like (practically nothing), but with less familiar spirits you should try drinking them neat so 
you can learn what they're bringing to the cocktail party.
Japan's forgotten sake is in an increasing number of cocktails and is worth more than this causal encounter. For 
something a little more formal, the Dorchester Collection's BAR 45 and 45 Park Lane are serving up Shini-Tai, three 
sakes matched with pastries. Shini-Tai is a Sumo term given to the losing wrestler, deemed to have no chance of 
winning due to the superior sumo of his opponent.
In the Shini-Tai flight, 45 Park Lane's head sommelier Vanessa Cinti has created a useful 'sake for dummies' 
experience. The breadth of flavour will come as a surprise - at least it did for me.
It includes the Amabuki Marigold, which is brewed with yeast from the blossoms of marigold; the Kirin Vintage 2013, 
which could easily be confused with a top-of-the-range sherry; and the Masuizumi Junmai Daiginjo, which is aged in 
the prestigious Domaine Ramonet (Burgundy) barrels. The flight costs £35 (boasting less orange than EasyJet and 
less trauma than Ryanair).
Sake is made from fermented rice (but not the sort of rice you eat). It is mentioned as early as 712 AD in Japanese 
texts, but no doubt some variety of it existed prior to this. Give a human in any epoch foodstuff containing starch 
and a few weeks later you'll find him passed out in the gutter telling you you're his best mate in the whole wide 
world. In the tenth century, sake production was liberalised, with temples and shrines allowed to brew the stuff. 
For goodness, sake: Japan's favourite drink returns; MIX IT UP
Production was relaxed further following during the Meiji Restoration, resulting in tens of thousands of new 
breweries. The government then taxed the majority of them out of existence.
But World War II decimated the sake industry as efforts were redirected to war. Although the quality has improved 
greatly since that low ebb it hasn't fully regained its mojo. This is a great shame and totally undeserved.
Although you're welcome to do whatever you want with your sake, those in the know suggest you shouldn't heat up 
the best stuff - for the same reason you wouldn't heat a single malt whisky or XO cognac. As with wine, some sakes 
taste best at room temperature, others chilled.
Learning about spirits is a doubleedged sword: the more you know, the more you're aware how little you really 
know about drinking.
Load-Date: April 22, 2015
End of Document
Google search shake-up could leave firms in the lurch
Google search shake-up could leave firms in the lurch
City A.M.
April 21, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 373 words
Byline: MARTIN ASHPLANT
Body
GOOGLE is about to embark on a major algorithm change which could leave businesses who have yet to adapt to 
mobile see their customer base shrink overnight.
Billed as "mobilegeddon" in some quarters, the search engine will tomorrow start to roll out what is expected to be 
the biggest change to its search results in years, with a focus on only showing websites it considers mobile friendly.
Whenever Google changes things, it is inevitable there will be some big losers in the business world - especially 
when the notoriously vague company itself says this update will have a "significant impact".
In a recent adjustment of this type, the "Panda 4.0" update of May 2014, www.yellowpages.com was estimated to 
have lost 20 per cent of its visibility in search.
And judging by the results of the tool Google circulated for websites to check their status ahead of the change, 
there are a number of big names who could be set to lose out.
Among the sites deemed not mobile friendly are Next and Ryanair, both of which are said to have links too close 
together and content wider than a normal mobile screen, while the MailOnline homepage and BBC's archive stories 
also missed the mark.
These sites will only see a drop in search visibility for those on smartphones, and not desktops or tablets, but 
Google estimates that about 50 per cent of its searches are now conducted from mobile devices.
Given that many firms, particularly in retail and ecommerce, rely on search traffic to drive up sales and keep their 
bottom line looking healthy, those who haven't addressed how their sites appear on mobile need to act urgently.
Google search shake-up could leave firms in the lurch
Making a site automatically change layout depending on what device is being used to view it - responsive design - 
is the best way to ensure it is mobile friendly, while working to keep load times as low as possible will give the site 
the best chance of performing well.
Businesses with in-house development teams should make this a priority now as Google says the penalty for not 
being mobile-friendly goes away once the site's issues have been addressed.
Smaller operations, on the other hand, should look for a suitable digital agency who can do the job for them.
Martin Ashplant is Digital and Social Media Director at City A.M.
Load-Date: April 21, 2015
End of Document
Kames' McPherson: Partnership was my worst investment
Kames' McPherson: Partnership was my worst investment
Citywire
April 21, 2015 Tuesday 2:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 327 words
Body
Kames Capital fund manager Pauline McPherson has revealed that Partnership was her worst investment as the 
pensions freedoms announced in the 2014 Budget caught her completely off guard.
McPherson, who manages the £54 million Kames Global Equity fund, admitted she needed to go for a walk in the 
aftermath and learnt a valuable lesson about investing in stocks with a lack of geographical diversification.
She said: 'The worst decision I made running this portfolio was last year when we bought into Partnership. We 
bought them because I had a view that the UK annuity market was dysfunctional and I thought Partnership was part 
of the solution to that as it offered people with illnesses higher payouts on their annuities, which seemed fairer than 
the competition.
'George Osborne also thought the market was dysfunctional, I just didn't expect him to cancel the entire thing! On 
the day that happened I had to go for a walk and gather myself. But that is the nature of running high conviction 
funds. From now on I make sure my companies are diversified in terms of the markets they are in.'
Instead, in the search for growth in an environment where growth is scarce, McPherson says the controversial 
airline Ryanair has particular potential.
McPherson said: 'This is an airline that has returned over 2 billion (£1.4 billion) in capital to shareholders since 
2000. As of last month, that has gone up to 2.5 billion and by the end of June that will be 3 billion as there is a 
special dividend in the pipeline.
'Think of Ryanair's planes like ATMs with wings. They have doubled their passengers in the last 10 years and they 
are promising to double this again in the next 10 years and I believe they will do it. That type of growth opportunity 
is very scarce in this world. I like it because of its disruptive, low cost model.'
Over five years to 31 March 2015, McPherson produced a return of 49.81% within global equities compared to the 
average manager who produced 49.7%.
Load-Date: April 21, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches Leeds Bradford winter 2015 schedule
Ryanair launches Leeds Bradford winter 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 20, 2015 Monday 6:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has launched its Leeds Bradford winter 2015 schedule with 10 new routes including 
Dublin, Lanzarote and Malta.
Body
Ryanair's Leeds Bradford winter 2015 schedule will deliver: 10 routes in total; more flights to Alicante (3 to 4 
weekly), Gdansk (2 to 4 weekly) & Malaga (2 to 3 weekly); over 835,000 customers p.a.; and 835 on-site jobs p.a. 
Ryanair launched its Leeds Bradford winter schedule a month earlier than 2014, with additional flights and better 
frequencies, but the same unbeatable low fares. Customers and visitors can now choose from 10 routes from 
Leeds Bradford next winter, while enjoying allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new 
website, a brand new app with mobile boarding passes, and Ryanair's Family Extra and Business Plus services, 
making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, business and leisure travellers. Ryanair's Sales and Marketing 
Manager, Maria Macken said: "To celebrate the launch of our Leeds Bradford winter 2015 schedule, we are 
releasing 100,000 seats on sale from GBP19.99 for travel in May and June, which are available for booking until 
midnight Monday (13 April)."
Load-Date: April 26, 2015
End of Document
EUR 75m fintech firm to double staff to 110
EUR 75m fintech firm to double staff to 110
Sunday Business Post
April 19, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 483 words
Body
CurrencyFair, the Dublin-based peer-to-peer currency exchange, is valued at over EUR 75 million after closing a 
EUR 10 million new investment round last week, according to market sources.
The company declined to comment on its valuation but said it would use the new funding to expand its staff number 
from 55 to 110 in the next year.
Over half of the new funding round came from Octopus Investments, a British company with over £5 billion under 
management, with the remaining funds coming from existing backer Frontline Ventures as well as angel investors 
and staff.
The Dublin-headquartered fintech firm plans to use the fundraising to expand into Britain, launch new products and 
increase its marketing spend.
CurrencyFair, which is backed indirectly by aviation entrepreneur Declan Ryan who is a major investor in Frontline, 
will also challenge rival Transferwise, which was valued at $1 billion after receiving investment from Silicon Valley 
venture capital fund Andreessen Horowitz and entrepreneur Richard Branson.
Ryan is a successful serial entrepreneur whose father Tony Ryan founded Ryanair.
   People would call Transferwise a competitor. We don't see it like that,   said Brett Meyers, chief executive of 
CurrencyFair.
   At the moment we are trying to educate customers that are coming away from the banks so everyone is lifted up 
by everyone else's efforts.  
Meyers said the media billing it as a battle between    Ryan Heir versus Branson   as a result was not entirely 
accurate.    I can see why this business interests them though. It is natural for them to move out of the airline 
EUR 75m fintech firm to double staff to 110
business and into the currency space. Our maps look like airline maps: the Irish to Oz, the French back to London 
and so on.  
   I've met Declan a couple of times,   Meyers added.    He made some introductions in Asia in places like 
Singapore and is very supportive. Mainly however it's Frontline people we deal with.  
He said Will Prendergast, a founding partner of Frontline, was on the board of CurrencyFair.
Meyers said CurrencyFair was both cheaper and easier to use than its rivals.   This is peer-to-peer in its true form,   
he said.
   We are unbeatable for price when it comes to transactions EUR 2,000 plus for things like pensions, rents, 
remittances.   CurrencyFair, he said, was handling EUR 5 million worth of transactions per day and had carried out 
EUR 1.81 billion in money matching transfers since its foundation.
In total Meyers said CurrencyFair had raised EUR 13.5 million since it was founded in 2009. CurrencyFair plans to 
double the size of its Dublin office from 55 people and also increase its presence in Britain where it has an office in 
Surrey.
Transactions in Australian dollars, Meyers said was the fastest growing part of its business. Meyers said 
CurrencyFair had about 100,000 customers and the three most popular currencies on its site were sterling, euro 
and Australian dollars.
Load-Date: April 20, 2015
End of Document
Time to bite the bullet and sell Aer Lingus
Time to bite the bullet and sell Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
April 19, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 456 words
Body
There are many good reasons for the state to rebuff Willie Walsh and not sell its 25.1 per cent stake in Aer Lingus 
to his IAG group. The airline, after all, is not just a company but a vital cog in the national infrastructure. It is a 
strong, profitable airline with a robust balance sheet and a hunger to expand its transatlantic routes: so far this year, 
its long haul flyers have risen by almost a quarter.
However, political expediency and electoral impact in certain pockets of Dublin and Shannon is not a good reason 
for retaining the stake. The state has long maintained a mantra that it would sell its stake to the right buyer at the 
right price. Analysts believe that the IAG bid is the right price, and that IAG is certainly the right suitor.
In the next two weeks, a government-appointed working group will report back to the minister for transport, giving its 
recommendations on the transaction. It appears it will recommend, under certain circumstances, that the sale go 
ahead. The government will make the final call.
If it opts not to sell, it must deal with the consequences. First, the share price will fall: aviation analysts predict a 
slide of 20 per cent on the grounds that institutional shareholders would take fright if another bid for the airline was 
stymied by political pressure.
Second, IAG (or another rival) might choose to acquire the other 75 per cent, a move that would limit the state's 
control and potential cash disbursements.
IAG has made numerous concessions already, including the provision of legally binding commitments on service to 
Ireland and connectivity to and from small regional airports. Those promises might dissipate in a more hostile 
takeover move.
Third, it must be prepared to retain its ownership for the long term, and reject its previous position that it will sell if 
the terms are right.
Time to bite the bullet and sell Aer Lingus
One thing is certain: the current ownership structure of the former national flag carrier will have to change. It is a 
ragtag collection of rivals, workers, government and a scattering of institutional investors. Ryanair is under pressure 
to sell from anti-trust regulators, while Etihad is happy to sell down its stake. There will be changes, and the 
government needs to make sure the interests of the Irish people are best served in the reshuffle.
In truth, a 25 per cent shareholder is neither here nor there: large enough to spook the market, but too small to 
really matter. This newspaper has advocated the state selling its stake if the terms of the IAG offer are appropriate 
and if they meet the bulk of the government's demands.
We see no reason to change that view. There is no compelling reason for the state to be owning or running airlines, 
there are enough other people doing it already.
Load-Date: April 20, 2015
End of Document
CMA Says Provisionally Decides To Proceed With Ryanair / Aer Lingus Remedies
CMA Says Provisionally Decides To Proceed With Ryanair/Aer Lingus 
Remedies
RTT News (United States)
April 17, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 288 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The U.K. Competition and Markets Authority or the CMA has provisionally decided that there is no 
material change in circumstances or special reason for it not to implement the remedies in the Ryanair/Aer Lingus 
inquiry.
In February, Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) requested that the CMA re-examine its decision to require it to sell its 29.8 
per cent stake in Aer Lingus Group plc down to 5 per cent. This followed a judgment from the Court of Appeal 
dismissing Ryanair's legal challenge to this decision.
Ryanair argued in particular that IAG's proposed bid for Aer Lingus and the period of time that has elapsed since 
the decision was originally made by the Competition Commission in its Report in August 2013, constitute a material 
change of circumstances and that the CMA no longer had the power to impose a divestment remedy on Ryanair.
After receiving that request, the CMA invited submissions from interested parties. After considering responses from 
Aer Lingus, IAG and the Irish Government - and further submissions from Ryanair - the inquiry group of 
independent CMA panel members considering this issue has provisionally decided that there is no material change 
in circumstances or special reason not to proceed to implement the remedies set out in the Report. The CMA will 
now consider further responses before taking its final decision.
The CMA said it is also consulting on the terms of a draft final order that would implement the remedies. In the 
event that it maintains its provisional decision, the CMA would expect to make a final order taking account of any 
comments it received on this draft final order.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: April 17, 2015
End of Document
Low-cost airlines: sitting comfortably?
Low-cost airlines: sitting comfortably?
Financial Times (London, England)
April 17, 2015 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 324 words
Body
US airline Southwest just loves to love its customers. It trades on the ticker symbol LUV; it offers free mid-air 
concerts ; and now it promises a wider seat . This hug gets results with both passengers and shareholders. Profits 
have more than doubled in the past two years. And Southwest's shares have left behind those of downmarket rivals 
such as US-listed Spirit, outperforming them by 76 percentage points over the past three years.
So there are lessons here for other budget airlines, such as UK-listed easyJet and Ryanair. Both have been trying 
to become more attractive to customers. These days, low prices alone are not enough to put passengers on seats. 
Offering seat reservations has made the pair more appealing to corporate and family customers. Ryanair has found 
new passengers at primary airports it previously did not serve, such as Lisbon, while easyJet expanded at London's 
Gatwick by acquiring the 25 landing slots of its smaller UK rival Flybe two years ago.
Higher margins help them to keep that investment going. One measure of this is the margin of earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft leasing against revenues. While Germany-listed Lufthansa's 
ebitda margins wallowed below 8 per cent last year, both Ryanair and easyJet doubled that. Lower staff costs 
(around 12 per cent of operating expenses) at the budget airlines are one of the reasons.
And they now have the added benefit of lower oil prices. As jet fuel prices have fallen, that gain for the lower-cost 
carriers has flowed towards making their customers happier, especially business flyers. For European flag carriers 
such as Lufthansa the drop in fuel costs simply keeps them out of loss. As fuel prices inevitably stabilise, the 
winners will be those that have spent to add clients.
Low-cost airlines: sitting comfortably?
The days when customers would put up with lousy service in exchange for lower prices have gone. Today's budget 
airline customer wants to feel the love.
Load-Date: April 16, 2015
End of Document
Games of drones intensifies as Hailo founder raises more funds
Games of drones intensifies as Hailo founder raises more funds
City A.M.
April 13, 2015 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 185 words
Byline: MICHAEL BOW
Body
THE MAN behind taxi hailing app Hailo has raised £1.4m from a clutch of investors to fund a new venture 
developing a system to register unmanned drone flights, making them safer to be in the air.
Jay Bregman, who co-founded Hailo in 2011 in London before leaving the group late last year, has been backed by 
groups including Irelandia Aviation, Accelerator Group, Prospect Insurance and Graph Ventures to grow the 
company, called Verifly.
Irelandia Aviation is best known for co-founding Ryanair while serial British entrepreneur and Index Ventures 
partner Robin Klein is the man behind the The Accelerator Group.
Verifly offers verification systems for drones which help droneoperators comply with national flight regulations and 
other restrictions, making them less likely to crash into other drones.
Drones have been singled out as one piece of technology set to enjoy a boom in the decades ahead, as 
ecommerce companies such as Amazon attempt to add further automation and speed to their delivery services.
Verifly has been co-founded by Bregman and Eugene Hertz, who sold his business to Amazon in 2010 for $540m.
Load-Date: April 13, 2015
End of Document
Michael Murray: Appointments of non-executive directors can sometimes send useful signals to shareholders - 
as a recent move at DCC has demonstrated
Michael Murray: Appointments of non-executive directors can sometimes 
send useful signals to shareholders - as a recent move at DCC has 
demonstrated
Sunday Business Post
April 12, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1016 words
Body
When the Irish economic and financial history books are written, the role played by poor corporate governance will 
feature prominently. It was one of the factors that contributed to the massive destruction of shareholders' funds in 
our indigenous banking sector.
But weak governance took its toll on other sectors too. Think about the demise of much of Tony O'Reilly's empire. 
Or the sclerotic approach of many of our semi-state companies. Or some of the factors which retarded the 
development of much of the potential in our agribusiness industry - the global excellence and leadership of the 
flavours and ingredients division of the Kerry Group notwithstanding, and the more recent successful evolutions of 
Glanbia and of Greencore.
In the transport sector, Ryanair has, from the outset, been head and shoulders over all others in terms of efficiency. 
This trait has extended to its boardroom membership with a typically efficient, tightly structured board drawn from 
people who have something meaningful to contribute. But as companies expand into new geographic, product or 
service markets, the availability of board members with relevant insight and experience in those markets is also 
critical.
Boardroom experience in the acquisition and integration of new businesses, in risk management and risk mitigation, 
in marketing and operational excellence, in strategic planning, and (perhaps most important of all) in crisis 
management amounts to a combination which any plc with global ambitions should have.
Over the past few years, I have been watching the evolution of some of the boards of Ireland's plcs, especially in 
the non-financial companies which have been growing by organic acquisition and international expansion: food, 
distribution, and technology companies.
Michael Murray: Appointments of non-executive directors can sometimes send useful signals to shareholders - 
as a recent move at DCC has demonstrated
It has become clear that every sector has become much more focused on the need for experience and cultural 
diversity. Institutional fund managers appear to be taking the selection and appointment of non-executive directors 
more seriously too.
As Ireland's investor base becomes more internationalised, and as companies' global footprints expand, board 
selection is being considered and adjudicated upon in a less parochial way, to take account of strategic plans and 
ambitions, and the relevance of the experience of proposed nominees to those plans.
It is a long time since Irish companies ran out of routes to earnings growth from the relatively small domestic 
markets. Constant shareholder pressure for earnings expansion almost invariably forces management to turn to 
overseas markets. Sometimes it has been possible to effect such expansion organically where the domestic 
technology and head office infrastructure could be leveraged.
But global growth has proved elusive for most Irish companies without overseas acquisitions (Ryanair and Paddy 
Power being commendable exceptions). Kerry Group, Glanbia, DCC and Greencore's overseas expansions have 
nearly all been acquisition-driven. This, of course, can carry significant risks.
The company that prompted me to write this article was DCC, a firm in which I have been very happily invested for 
several years now.
DCC issued a regulatory statement two weeks ago, announcing the appointment of a new non-executive director. In 
reading the statement - and because of the background of the appointee - I saw a clear link to a comment made by 
a spokesperson for the company, a year or so ago.
The comment was to the effect that DCC, having successfully expanded across Europe, now had a global vision for 
its energy distribution business. It is one of the few Irish companies whose acquisition track record overseas has 
been almost flawless to date, but it clearly recognises that when it takes its first step beyond Europe, it must have 
on board people who know distribution markets in other parts of the world.
Reading the newly-announced non-executive director's curriculum vitae triggered my memory of the conversation I 
had with the DCC spokesperson when I last wrote about the company.
It sent a signal that DCC is now putting in place one of the incremental foundation stones for expansion beyond its 
currently successful pan-European operations.
For the first time, a non-executive director was appointed to the board who holds a top executive position in a major 
US distribution group: one David Jukes.
He is a member of the top management team at Univar Inc, a world leader in the distribution of chemistry and 
related products. For the past four years, he has led Univar's Emerging Markets division, having previously had 
senior roles in the US, as well as in most of the European countries where DCC has existing operations.
There can be little doubt but that his particular appointment will have been considered and motivated in the context 
of DCC's increasingly global ambitions.
It is worth bearing this in mind, because with acquisitions go risks, especially when those acquisitions are in 
unfamiliar markets. The appointment of Jukes to the board, however, is clearly a material step towards building a 
knowledge base of the opportunities and potential traps inherent in DCC's aspirations.
Going on its past track record, the company will want to pursue those aspirations determinedly but methodically, 
putting in place the necessary building blocks, due diligence, knowledge and experience base that have been 
hallmarks of its remarkable successes in acquisition and consolidation-led growth in shareholder value in the past.
As a shareholder, I am always conscious of the risks of breaking new ground by acquisition in new geographic or 
product markets - even with companies with track records as outstanding as the likes of DCC or the Kerry Group.
Michael Murray: Appointments of non-executive directors can sometimes send useful signals to shareholders - 
as a recent move at DCC has demonstrated
Bringing a director with the depth of experience of David Jukes into the boardroom, however, sends a very positive 
signal that DCC is likely to remain true to form by putting in place one of the important and critical building blocks for 
its next phase of expansion. This is consistent with the cautious, incremental approach that has been one of the 
hallmarks of DCC's consistent success over the past quarter of a century.
Load-Date: April 13, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
April 12, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 602 words
Body
**AIB backs life science fund**
AIB has committed EUR 15 million to a life science venture capital fund managed by Fountain Healthcare Partners, 
with the latest investment bringing the total raised to EUR 103 million.
The fund, which launched in January, will primarily focus on specialty pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, medical 
devices and diagnostics.
Ray Fitzpatrick, AIB's head of equity investment unit, said that the bank recognised    the value of venture capital 
funding to Irish companies  .
   The life sciences sector is a key sector for both AIB and the Irish economy,   he said.    Nine of the top ten global 
pharmaceutical companies are based in Ireland, while 15 of the top 20 medical devices firms are also based here.  
.......................................
**Revenue slump for Donegal Investment Group**
Donegal Investment Group has reported a 6.9 per cent fall in revenue to EUR 80.7 million in 2014, due to a 
downturn in the performance of its animal feeds business, Smyths, and its seed potato business.
The fall in revenue contributed to a reduction in adjusted operating profit from EUR 2.9 million in 2013 to EUR 0.9 
million in 2014.
During 2014 the company experienced extremely difficult trading conditions in its produce seed potato business, 
resulting in a loss of EUR 0.8 million, in comparison with a profit for that part of the business of EUR 1.8 million in 
2013.
.......................................
Boardroom Briefing
**Agm season looms**
The builders merchanting and DIY group, Grafton Group, has notified shareholders of its upcoming agm.
The company will hold its agm at the IMI Conference Centre on Sandyford Road, Dublin 16 on May 12 at 10.30am.
Last month Grafton Group reported growth in its revenues and profits in 2014, with the company's chief executive 
Gavin Slark saying the company had    recorded its fifth successive year of strong profit growth  .
Meanwhile, Glanbia has also notified shareholders of its upcoming agm. The food group will also hold its agm on 
May 12. It will take place in the Lyrath Estate Hotel in Kilkenny, beginning at 11am.
.......................................
**Passenger numbers up at airlines**
Aer Lingus has reported a 2.3 per cent increase in passenger numbers in March. The airline said the total number 
of passengers carried during the month, including regional traffic, was 815,000 - up 2.3 per cent on March 2014.
Aer Lingus said long-haul traffic was up by 25.3 per cent to 94,000 passengers in the month, compared with 75,000 
passengers in the same month last year. The airline's
overall load factor - the number of seats it fills on a fight - increased by 6.5 per cent to 82.6 per cent from last year.
Meanwhile, Ryanair traffic grew by 28 per cent year-on-year in March to 6.67 million customers, and the airline's 
load factor grew 10 per cent to 90 per cent. Its rolling annual traffic to March was up 11 per cent to 90.5 million 
customers.
.......................................
**The week ahead**
GameAccount Network, the gaming software firm headed by Dermot Smurfit Jnr, will release its full year results for 
2014 on Thursday.
A number of well-known international companies will also report results this week. Retailer Debenhams, which last 
week appointed Terry Duddy, the former boss of Home Retail Group, as a non-executive director, will report interim 
results on Thursday.
Luxury goods company Burberry will deliver a trading update on Wednesday, and WH Smith will announce its 
interim results on Thursday.
US bank JPMorgan Chase will publish its first quarter results on Tuesday, with tech giant Intel also due to publish 
its first quarter results that day.
Load-Date: April 13, 2015
End of Document
Bono tipped to be adviser at new TPG Capital fund
Bono tipped to be adviser at new TPG Capital fund
Sunday Business Post
April 12, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 255 words
Body
Bono and actor Ashton Kutcher are going to be appointed as special advisers to a new investment fund being set 
up by TPG Capital, the New York Post reported last week.
Bono already sits on the board of Fender Musical Instruments, which is owned by TPG, a multibillion dollar private 
equity fund led by David Bonderman, the chairman of Ryanair since 1996.
Bono, the Post said, is already an investor in some of TPG's funds and it reported that he has so far invested $3 
million in carpooling service Ride, which the private equity fund has backed. TPG declined to comment when 
contacted on Friday. Bono could not be contacted for comment.
Among the private equity firm's best investments was its backing of Uber, an app for booking private cars.
Bono has been a long-term investor in technology, notably as a co-founder of Elevation Partners, which has 
invested in Facebook, Forbes and Yelp. Elevation has invested about $1.95 billion in technology companies to date. 
Bono has also invested in start-ups in a personal capacity.
The Sunday Business Post reported earlier this year that he had invested in Bizimply, a fast-growing Dublin-based 
start-up which has developed a cloud-based application to allow restaurants, retailers and pubs manage important 
parts of their business more effectively.
Kutcher, who is engaged to fellow actor Mila Kunis, is also a seasoned investor in companies such as Skype and 
Airbnb.
In 2011, he invested in fab.com, a designer products portal, which was acquired by Corkman Liam Casey's PCH 
earlier this year.
Load-Date: April 13, 2015
Bono tipped to be adviser at new TPG Capital fund
End of Document
Aintree return can see Balder claim another big prize
Aintree return can see Balder claim another big prize
City A.M.
April 10, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 39
Length: 302 words
Byline: BILL ESDAILE
Body
TODAY'S Melling Chase (3.25pm) is highly competitive but practically every horse in the line-up has something to 
prove.
Champagne Fever is the one to beat if he's over the lip-biting from stablemate Un Atout that forced him to miss the 
Betway Champion Chase. However, he's always been inconsistent and I wouldn't put total faith in him.
Don Cossack was a bit disappointing in the Ryanair, while Sire De Grugy, Al Ferof and Cue Card all have question 
marks against them.
BALDER SUCCES ran poorly at Cheltenham last time, but that clearly isn't his track and a return to Aintree, where 
he comfortably won the Maghull Novices' Chase last year, can see him bounce back. Take the 7/1 with Betway and 
buy him in a Sporting Index match bet against Cue Card or Sire De Grugy.
Nicky Henderson has won the last two editions of the Topham Chase (4.05pm) and I fancy him to notch the hat-
trick with RAJDHANI EXPRESS.
The eight-year-old was sent off just 7/2 for the Grade One Melling Chase 12 months ago and, although he 
disappointed there, he is definitely up to graded class. He has dropped six pounds since then and might just be 
coming back into form.
Sam Waley-Cohen is brilliant over the National fences and the 9/1 with Betway is worth snapping up.
Aintree return can see Balder claim another big prize
Finally, I'm going to be backing Willie Mullins and Ruby Walsh to land the Sefton Novices' Hurdle (4.40pm) with ROI 
DES FRANCS. The six-year-old was the favourite for last month's Martin Pipe Hurdle, but he could only finish third 
and looked as though he needed a step up in trip.
This should be the perfect test for him and he is taken to give Walsh another win in the Gigginstown colours after 
yesterday's success on Clarcam in the opener.
? Pointers… BALDER SUCCES e/w RAJDHANI EXPRESS e/w ROI DES FRANCS e/w 3.25pm Aintree (today) 
4.05pm Aintree (today) 4.40pm Aintree (today)
Load-Date: April 10, 2015
End of Document
French unions call protests French unions c...
French unions call protests; French unions c...
Business World (Digest)
April 9, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 543 words
Highlight: French unions sought on Thursday to ramp up protests against public spending cuts, calling for work 
stoppages and marches by public-sector staff that coincided with strikes by air traffic controllers and state radio 
workers.
Body
French unions sought on Thursday to ramp up protests against public spending cuts, calling for work stoppages 
and marches by public-sector staff that coincided with strikes by air traffic controllers and state radio workers.
The protest marches nationwide and a large rally planned for Paris in the afternoon were set to test how much 
support unions can muster over spending curbs they say are undermining both public service and purchasing 
power generally, to the detriment of the euro zone's second-largest economy.
The protests come a day after President Francois Hollande's government said it still expected economic growth of 
just 1 percent this year, underlining that its recovery remains fragile.
It also trimmed its forecast for 2016 and 2017 to 1.5 percent growth each year, from 1.7 percent in 2016 and 1.9 
percent in 2017, although it hopes a weak euro, lower oil prices and low interest rates will help it do better. In an 
encouraging sign, the Bank of France raised its estimate for first-quarter growth to 0.4 percent from an earlier 0.3 
percent quarter-on-quarter, citing stronger foreign demand. It was unclear how big the protests, culminating in an 
afternoon march through Paris, would be. The large union CFDT refused to join the call made by other unions, 
arguing the savings being made in France were not big enough to be compared to austerity undergone by 
neighbours such as Spain. The newspaper Le Figaro quoted a CGT union member as saying staff who man the 
Eiffel Tower would keep it shut it until 6.00 pm (1600 GMT). The call for a major rally and stoppages across the 
public sector, including by state-employed teachers, coincided with the second day of an air traffic control strike and 
another day in the longest-ever protest over a shakeup at France's public radio network. Airlines such as Air 
France, easyJet and Ryanair said they had to scrap hundreds of flights in and out of France and to some 
destinations elsewhere in Europe because controllers struck over plans to change work conditions and raise their 
retirement age to 59 from 57. At Radio France, a public-service entity that includes two orchestras as well as a 
French unions call protests French unions c...
national and local radio network, programming was scaled back as the organisation's industrial dispute entered a 
fourth week. Staff are at loggerheads with Radio France boss Matthieu Gallet, who is under government pressure to 
pursue money-saving measures without prolonging the conflict. The broader call for anti-austerity marches and 
stoppages in the public service more generally came from the CGT, Force Ouvriere and other, smaller unions but 
not the CFDT -- roughly as big as the CGT at national level but less hard-line. Some teachers in France's public 
school network stayed out, but many schools keep their doors open during stoppages by providing activities in 
place of teaching for pupils. Hollande's government has vowed to cut its deficit to EU-agreed levels by the end of 
his tenure in 2017. But it insists it is sparing the French people the drastic austerity of Greece, Spain or Ireland. The 
government has said it will shave a total 50 billion euros off its initial spending projections by 2017, but total state 
spending will still rise slightly. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: April 14, 2015
End of Document
EasyJet sees passenger numbers up but falls behind rival's growth
EasyJet sees passenger numbers up but falls behind rival's growth
City A.M.
April 9, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 226 words
Byline: ADAM HIGNETT
Body
EASYJET saw its passenger numbers increase by 7.5 per cent in March compared with the same month last year, 
but failed to keep up with arch-rival Ryanair.
The Luton-based budget airline carried 5.5m passengers last month, up from 5.1m over the same period last year. 
The moderate growth comes on the back of February's six per cent increase in passenger numbers and a small rise 
in January.
However, the airline also managed to notch up its load factor - a sign of efficiency when it comes to filling seats - 
which rose to 91 per cent, an increase of 1.4 percentage points.
The modest rate of growth was eclipsed by that of Ryanair which yesterday announced it saw a 28 per cent 
increase in March, after seeing traffic up 29 per cent in February and 30 per cent in January.
EasyJet was not the only carrier with results out yesterday as Aer Lingus, which is part-owned by Ryanair and a 
takeover target of British Airways owner IAG, saw passenger numbers up 2.3 per cent in March.
The growth comes after a 0.9 per cent decline in February and was partly driven by a jump in long-haul flights which 
saw a 25 per cent increase during the period.
The surge in long-haul flights will be particularly welcome for the carrier which is particularly sought by IAG due to 
its strong links between Dublin and the US.
Shares in EasyJet closed up 0.6 per cent at 1,857p yesterday.
EasyJet sees passenger numbers up but falls behind rival's growth
Graphic
 
EasyJet's growth trails behind rival Ryanair
Load-Date: April 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair March passenger traffic increases 28%
Ryanair March passenger traffic increases 28%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 9, 2015 Thursday 9:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 157 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of March 2015 was 6.67 million 
passengers, an increase of 28%, compared to 5.20 million passengers for March 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of March 2015 was 90%, an increase of 10 percentage points, compared to 80% for 
March 2014. Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's March traffic grew by 28% to 6.67m 
customers, while our load factor jumped by 10% points to 90%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward 
booking strategy and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer programme, which continues 
to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded winter schedule. "With our new routes, 
increased frequencies and Business Plus service, customers can now look forward to further service 
enhancements, as we roll out the 2nd year of our AGB programme in 2015, which includes a new website and app, 
new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms and inflight menus, reduced airport fees, and great new digital features such 
as 'hold the fare', destination content and fare comparison services."
Load-Date: April 15, 2015
End of Document
Labor Dispute Grounds Nearly Half Of All Flights In France
Labor Dispute Grounds Nearly Half Of All Flights In France
International Business Times News
April 8, 2015 Wednesday 5:51 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 549 words
Byline: Cole Stangler
Body
Apr 08, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> French air 
traffic controllers walked off the job Wednesday, launching a two-day strike that has grounded nearly half of all 
flights across the country. About 40 percent of flights were canceled Wednesday, and national aviation authorities 
are asking airlines to cancel 50 percent[1] of flights Thursday. 
Short- and medium-haul trips are affected most, as Air France vows to keep long-haul flights in service.<nl/> The 
National Union of Air Traffic Controllers (SNCTA) wants the right to bargain for agreements specific to its members. 
Under the existing system, bargaining takes place across the aviation sector, of which air traffic controllers make up 
only a fraction. The union complained in a news release that air traffic is on the rise while 'human and technical 
resources are in decline[2].' It also wants to bargain over a proposed hike[3] in the retirement age from 57 to 59. (In 
the U.S., the Federal Aviation Administration mandates retirement for air traffic controllers at age 56[4].)<nl/> Low-
cost carrier Ryanair, which said it canceled 250 flights Wednesday, blasted the union in a statement.<nl/> 'We 
sincerely apologize to all customers affected by this unwarranted strike action and we call on the EU and French 
authorities to take measures to prevent any further disruption,' the Dublin-based airline[5] said. 'It's grossly unfair 
that thousands of European travelers will once again have their travel plans disrupted by the selfish actions of a tiny 
number of French [air traffic control] workers.'<nl/> The strike, originally planned for late March, was delayed 
because of the March 24 crash of Germanwings Flight 9525 in the French Alps. The air traffic controllers' union 
says it is preparing for additional sets of work stoppages this month, April 16-18 and April 29-May 2. <nl/> France's 
top unions are calling for a much larger strike -- and national demonstration in Paris -- against budget 
cuts Thursday[6]. Meanwhile, another strike rolls on at the nation's top public radio[7] broadcaster.<nl/> French 
labor is increasingly at odds with the Socialist Party government, which it views as too friendly toward employers. 
Fresh on labor's list of grievances: In February, the Socialist-majority parliament approved highly contentious 
legislation[8] that allows for businesses to open more frequently on Sundays.<nl/> [ 1]: http://www.developpement-
durable.gouv.fr/IMG/pdf/CP_DGAC_gre_ve_intersyndicale_090415-2.pdf 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.sncta.fr/communique-de-presse-6/ [ 3]:            http://www.lefigaro.fr/societes/2015/04/08/20005-
20150408ARTFIG00029-les-controleurs-aeriens-refusent-que-la-retraite-soit-repoussee-a-59ans.php [ 4]:            
http://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/publications/controller_staffing/media/CWP_2014.pdf 
[ 
5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://corporate.ryanair.com/news/news/150407-ryanair-statement-re-french-atc-strike/?market=en [ 6]:            
http://www.cgt.fr/-Journee-nationale-d-action,1654-.html [ 7]:            http://www.ibtimes.com/radio-france-strike-
work-stoppage-now-longest-ever-state-owned-french-broadcaster-1870620 
[ 
8]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.ibtimes.com/macron-law-french-labor-reforms-force-vote-confidence-parliament-1822080 
Labor Dispute Grounds Nearly Half Of All Flights In France
Load-Date: April 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair figures soar as charm offensive works
Ryanair figures soar as charm offensive works
City A.M.
April 8, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 243 words
Byline: JOSEPH MILLIS
Body
IRISH low-cost airline Ryanair yesterday reported a 28pc rise in passenger numbers last month, as a charm 
offensive began to take hold.
The carrier, which has been on a mission to revamp its poor customer service image, said passenger numbers 
reached 6.7m in March - 1.5m more than the same period last year.
Ryanair's chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said the performance was due to its "Always Getting Better" (AGB) 
customer charter - launched in March 2014 - which aims to provide lower fares and a simpler forward booking 
strategy. "With our new routes, increased frequencies and Business Plus service, customers can now look forward 
to further service enhancements, as we roll out the second year of our AGB programme in 2015," he added.
Since launching the charter, Ryanair's passenger numbers have soared by 9m to 90m a year.
Ryanair also said the percentage of seats on its flight being occupied by passengers rose to 90 per cent, up from 80 
per cent last March.
Formerly abrasive chief executive Michael O'Leary has been on a mission to create what he calls a "warm and 
cuddly" image for the budget airline.
He has in the past acknowledged that the airline sometimes "pissed off customers". But now, in an attempt to mend 
its ways, Ryanair has revamped its website and app to make bookings easier, offering a "reserve a fare" service for 
(EURO)5 (£3.65), and launching a price comparison function.
Ryanair shares closed up 1.57 per cent at (EURO)11.03.
Ryanair figures soar as charm offensive works
Graphic
 
Passenger numbers at Ryanair are up, up and away better after an attempted image change
Load-Date: April 8, 2015
End of Document
