Lindsay Fortado Increase in passengers
Lindsay Fortado; Increase in passengers
Financial Times (London, England)
April 8, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 141 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick
Body
Ryanair, the no-frills European airline that is trying to shed an image of treating customers harshly, has reported 
another month of double-digit growth in traffic. The airline, which has been rapidly expanding its routes and buying 
new aircraft, said it carried 6.7m passengers last month, up from 5.2m during the same period in 2014. Its "load 
factor" - airline jargon for the percentage of seats on a flight that are actually occupied by passengers - hit 90 per 
cent, up from 80 per cent in March last year.
Ryanair and its outspoken chief executive Michael O'Leary have been working hard to improve customers' 
experience of the airline with initiatives such as allowing passengers a second piece of carry-on luggage. Other 
budget airlines have also been reporting business is improving as the UK economy grows and oil prices stay low.
Naomi Rovnick
Load-Date: April 7, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair see customer increase in March Ryanair see cus...
Ryanair see customer increase in March; Ryanair see cus...
Business World (Digest)
April 7, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 174 words
Highlight: Ryanair traffic grew by 28% to 6.67m customers last month according to their latest customer and load 
factor statistics. Rolling annual traffic to March grew 11% to 90.5m customers. Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, 
Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair's M
Body
Ryanair traffic grew by 28% to 6.67m customers last month according to their latest customer and load factor 
statistics.
Rolling annual traffic to March grew 11% to 90.5m customers.
Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair's March traffic grew by 28% to 6.67m customers, 
while our load factor jumped by 10% points to 90%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward booking strategy 
and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer programme, which continues to deliver better 
than expected load factors on our significantly expanded winter schedule.
With our new routes, increased frequencies and Business Plus service, customers can now look forward to further 
service enhancements, as we roll out the 2nd year of our AGB programme in 2015, which includes a new website 
and app, new cabin interiors, new crew uniforms and inflight menus, reduced airport fees, and great new digital 
features such as 'hold the fare', destination content and fare comparison services." For more visit: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: April 10, 2015
End of Document
Insider Trading
Insider Trading
Sunday Business Post
April 5, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIVING
Length: 606 words
Body
Be inspired for your spring gardening efforts with luxury group Roads' latest publishing project, titled Reflections: 
Gardens. The company, which is headed by Danielle Ryan (granddaughter of Ryanair founder Tony Ryan), has 
selected some of the world's most beautiful gardens, from Monet's retreat at Giverny (below) to Singapore's 
futuristic Gardens by the Bay (above), to desire and inspire. EUR 45. See roads.co/books/gardens.
Designer Niall Tyrrell has been flying solo since the retirement of his business partner Donald Brennan. His new 
season collection is designed and made in Dublin and features fabrics including silk, jersey and brocade. This 
beautiful blush pink lace and organza dress, which is worn over a bias slip dress, can be made bespoke for clients 
at a cost of EUR 1,650. See nialltyrrell.com.
Premium denim brand G-Star's Raw for the Oceans range of clothing is the perfect combination of downtime style 
and first-class ethics. Co-designed by singer Pharrell Williams, the clothes are made from plastic waste that is taken 
from the sea, broken down, treated and then helixed with cotton to create an innovative fabric called Bionicyarn. It's 
durable, feels great and does good. The collection consists of sweats and tees, but I love the Radar blazer which is 
slim fitting and tailored yet relaxed. EUR 199.95. See g-star.com.
Specially commissioned designs and craftwork form the centrepiece of an edgy new photographic exhibition to 
mark ID 2015. Photographer Agata Stoinska (who we love from online fashion magazine Maven 46) and art director 
Eddie Shanahan (who we love for his evangelisation of Irish design) set their Wilderness project at the edge of the 
clouds high in the Knockmealdown mountains. Their exhibition comprises ten stunning images printed on high-
quality art paper and framed in beautiful washed lime frames. Gallery Zozimus, Dublin, April 9-25.
It seems strange to be shopping John Hanly tweed throws online from Liberty of London, but it only serves to 
highlight the international appeal of the quality craftsmanship inherent in these beautiful Irish merino lambswool 
products. 114 x 180cm, £119 plus £10 delivery. See liberty.co.uk.
Insider Trading
Why has it taken so long to bring asymmetrical hemlines into the mainstream fashion dialogue? The new designs 
from Edel Traynor of Dublin designer collective Atelier 27, are utilitarian and edgy - and sure to be a stand-out 
wardrobe staple. Traynor is part of a new collection launched last week at Atelier 27, above Om Diva off Dublin's 
Grafton Street. Match the look with a colour blocked handbag from the collective's newest recruit, Desirée Pringle.
Dublin-based artist Morgan is well-known for his portrait skills. His latest limited-edition run of prints, based on 
Ireland's beautiful old coinage, are hand-drawn and printed on 190gsm coated fine art A2 paper. They cost EUR 65, 
but look out for a run of postcards featuring all eight designs, including the iconic hare, salmon, horse, wolfhound 
and pig. See morgan.ie.
Laura Bailey, 39-year-old model, writer, contributing editor to Vogue and Chanel Ambassador, has found time in 
between being generally fabulous to design a collection of shoes and bags with British brand LK Bennett. The new 
season collection is in keeping with the brand's recent foray into brighter, bolder colour-ways and patterns and is 
inspired by the Amalfi coast. I'm a fan of the pointed, flat styles which come in both blue, white and patent black (the 
Anna, pictured here on Bailey, costs EUR 265), but die-hard heel-wearers are spoiled too, with the beautiful Claudia 
style (EUR 395). Available at Brown Thomas and lkbennett.com.
Load-Date: April 6, 2015
End of Document
Market Talk
Market Talk
Sunday Business Post
April 5, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 587 words
Body
Shares in Ryanair, Smurfit Kappa, Kerry Group, Glanbia and Paddy Power were among a long list of firms that 
touched record prices last week. In a quiet week for news from those companies, and at a time when most traders 
were heading away for Easter, it was an impressive run.
The first quarter of the year has seen most of the main European stock markets closing at, or near, all-time highs. 
Rather than thanking the companies for delivering impressive earnings, thank Mario Draghi and the European 
Central Bank.
The EUR 1.1 trillion quantitative easing drive by the ECB hasn't yet fed into the European economy, but it is feeding 
into equity markets. With Greece warning that it will run out of cash (again) this Thursday, it should be a time of 
more volatility in financial markets. Instead, we're seeing the continued extension of a multi-year rally.
We're only one month into QE, but the effects are pretty clear: a weakening euro is helping to fuel the rally further, 
as overseas investors pile into European stocks.
But the effects on the eurozone economy aren't as clear-cut. Consumer prices were still negative in March, and 
unemployment across the bloc was 11.3 per cent. Money printing may be assisting equity markets, but it hasn't yet 
cured what it was intended to.
**Expect fireworks at Permanent TSB showdown**
If you've an hour or four to spare on Wednesday, then the annual general meeting of Permanent TSB should 
provide some fun. The bank may have 134,000 small shareholders but, combined, they own less than 1 per cent of 
the company. Still, it's been a well-attended meeting in recent years, and there will be no shortage of grievances to 
be aired this week.
Alongside the usual AGM motions, shareholders will be asked to approve the bank's EUR 525 million fundraising, 
which it needs to complete by the end of July to meet ECB capital requirements.
Market Talk
Having been diluted down already when the government bailed out the bank, it will be no surprise to its remaining 
shareholders that they are probably going to be wiped out once and for all, unless they take part in the fundraising.
A handful of highly-paid investment banks and stockbrokers have been hired to ensure that the bank pulls off the 
capital raising smoothly. However, what we still don't know is how much of a dilution the taxpayer faces. Sources 
tell me the intention is that the government will still be the majority shareholder of the bank for some years to come.
Much has been made of the fact that EUR 400 million of the EUR 2.7 billion bailout will be repaid soon. But with 
analysts at Investec Bank last week estimating that PTSB will be worth EUR 1.7 billion in 2017, the chances of 
getting back every cent now looking very slim.
**A return to core values?**
Apple enthusiasts will be queuing outside the company's stores this week, as the company's first completely new 
product since the death of Steve Jobs goes on sale.
Broker Cantor Fitzgerald believes that sales of the Apple Watch will be high enough to propel Apple shares to $180 
(they traded at about $124 last week). At that price, Apple would be worth $1 trillion, the first company in the world 
to reach that value.
Cantor reckons Apple will sell 20 million watches in the next year, about one-quarter of expected iPhone sales. But 
the big unknown for Apple is whether the watch has enough features to keep users addicted to it. The run-up in 
Apple shares has, in part, been based on speculation about the Watch. If it fails to hit sales targets, that $1 trillion 
valuation looks unlikely.
Load-Date: April 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announce summer 2015 schedule Ryanair announc...
Ryanair announce summer 2015 schedule; Ryanair announc...
Business World (Digest)
April 2, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Ryainair have today announced their Dublin summer 2015 schedule. It includes 4 new routes to/from 
Brussels Zaventem, Cologne, Copenhagen and Glasgow Intl, as well as increased frequencies on 13 other routes.
Body
Ryainair have today announced their Dublin summer 2015 schedule. It includes 4 new routes to/from Brussels 
Zaventem, Cologne, Copenhagen and Glasgow Intl, as well as increased frequencies on 13 other routes.
Ryanair celebrated the beginning of its Dublin summer 2015 schedule and 4 new routes by releasing 100,000 seats 
for sale across its European network, at prices from E19.99 for travel in April and May. These low fare seats are 
available for booking until midnight Monday (6 April).
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said, "The summer season is here and Ryanair is pleased to celebrate our biggest ever 
Dublin schedule, with 82 exciting routes in total, including our new routes to Brussels, Cologne, Copenhagen and 
Glasgow.
We've also added extra flights on 13 routes, including Manchester, with a five-times daily service from June, as we 
continue to connect Dublin with Europe's major centres of business." Connacht Rugby players Rodney Ah You, Mils 
Muliaina, George Naoupu and Danie Poolman were on hand to make the announcement. For more visit: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: April 7, 2015
End of Document
Two Ryanair Planes Collide On Dublin Airport Runway
Two Ryanair Planes Collide On Dublin Airport Runway
International Business Times News
April 1, 2015 Wednesday 1:50 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 306 words
Byline: Suman Varandani
Body
Apr 01, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Two 
Ryanair passenger planes brushed against each other while taxiing on a runway at Dublin airport on Wednesday, 
causing some delays to departures, authorities said. 
No injuries were reported in the incident, which was the second such case in six months.<nl/> 'The winglet of one 
aircraft appears to have scraped the tail fin of the other. Both aircraft were under the instruction of Dublin Airport Air 
Traffic Control at the time,' the company said in a statement, according[1] to the Irish Times. "Customers have been 
bussed back to the terminal and will board replacement aircraft to continue their journeys to Edinburgh and 
Zadar.'<nl/> The company also apologized for the inconvenience caused to the passengers. The two planes were 
scheduled to fly to Scotland and Croatia.<nl/> It's happened again! Two #Ryanair[2] planes collide in Dublin airport 
moments ago. pic.twitter.com/kZmZjFuXa4[3]<nl/> — Ryanair News (@RYRNews) April 1, 2015[4]<nl/> In October, 
two other Ryanair planes[5], one traveling to Edinburgh in Scotland and the other heading to Charleroi in Belgium, 
collided at Dublin airport and the winglet of one aircraft scrapped to the tail of the other. The Air Accident 
Investigation Unit of the Department of Transport, Tourism and Sport launched an investigation into the incident at 
the time.;<nl/> [ 1]: http://www.irishtimes.com/news/ireland/irish-news/two-ryanair-planes-clip-each-other-at-dublin-
airport-1.2161135 [ 2]:            https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ryanair?src=hash [ 3]:            http://t.co/kZmZjFuXa4 [ 4]:       
     https://twitter.com/RYRNews/status/583174659283247104 [ 5]:            http://www.ibtimes.com/two-ryanair-
planes-clip-each-other-dublin-airport-company-apologizes-passengers-1700294 
Load-Date: April 1, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair loses $5 million in hacking scam
Ryanair loses $5 million in hacking scam
AirFinance Journal
April 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,CHINA,IRELAND,ASIA
Length: 153 words
Highlight: Hackers defraud airline through electronic transfer via a Chinese bank.
Body
Irish carrier Ryanair last week fell victim to a $5 million hacking scam.
A spokesperson for the airline confirmed to Airfinance Journal that just under $5 million in funds were removed from 
a Ryanair account last week by electronic transfer via a Chinese bank.
The spokesperson added that the airline is working with its banks and the relevant authorities to find out how the 
hacking happened and who may have been behind it.
The carrier stated it understands that the accounts have now been frozen and has taken the steps to ensure that 
this type of transfer cannot recur.
The Ryanair spokesperson added that the airline expects the funds to repaid soon, but did not give an exact time as 
to when they will be paid.
The airline declined to comment further on the matter citing ongoing legal proceedings.
To see all of Ryanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: May 18, 2015
End of Document
Job opportunities in Irish Aviation Job opportuniti...
Job opportunities in Irish Aviation; Job opportuniti...
Business World (Digest)
March 31, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 210 words
Highlight: Dalmac, an official training and recruitment partner for Ryainair has announced today that it will be 
recruiting in Ireland this spring. The major European recruitment campaign hopes to fill hundreds of cabin crew 
positions on board Ryainair Aircraft. Tho
Body
Dalmac, an official training and recruitment partner for Ryainair has announced today that it will be recruiting in 
Ireland this spring. The major European recruitment campaign hopes to fill hundreds of cabin crew positions on 
board Ryainair Aircraft. Those who are successful will have the opportunity to work in various Airports across 
Europe including Ireland.
Dalmac is based in Ireland and Hahn (near Frankfurt, Germany) and has a team of highly qualified and dedicated 
professionals specialising in the recruitment of cabin crew for the airline industry for more than a decade.
Ryanair currently has a team of more than 9,500 highly skilled aviation professionals and operates more than 1,600 
daily flights from 73 bases, connecting 190 destinations in 30 countries.
Successful candidates will have the opportunity to complete their cabin crew training and be based in Ireland. The 
training course will take place on the 11th of May in Dublin. Dalmac's Head of Recruitment, Andrea Reger said, "We 
had a fantastic response in 2014 and were extremely satisfied with the very high calibre candidates we met in 
Ireland. We are now returning to fill 100's of positions, this is a fantastic opportunity to join a growing industry." For 
more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: April 3, 2015
End of Document
Jack & Jill Childrens Charity gets support from Ryainair & Boylesports; Jack & Jill Chi...
Jack & Jill Childrens Charity gets support from Ryainair & Boylesports; Jack 
& Jill Chi...
Business World (Digest)
March 30, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 187 words
Highlight: It was announced today that Ryanair and BoyleSports bookmakers presented a E10,000 cheque to the 
Jack & Jill Children's Foundation, following a Cheltenham charity partnership.
Body
It was announced today that Ryanair and BoyleSports bookmakers presented a E10,000 cheque to the Jack & Jill 
Children's Foundation, following a Cheltenham charity partnership.
Ryanair teamed up with BoyleSports to offer Ryanair customers travelling to Cheltenham a free E15 bet, with E5 
from every promotional bet placed going to Jack & Jill.
BoyleSports matched the E5,000 total raised to bring the donation to E10,000, providing Jack & Jill with vital funds 
to help families of children with life limiting conditions to receive home respite care.
Jack & Jill's CEO, Jonathan Irwin said, "On behalf of the 300 children and their families supported by the Jack & Jill 
Foundation, I salute and thank Ryanair and BoyleSports most sincerely. The E10,000 raised will fund 625 hours of 
home nursing care for children, all over Ireland, from birth to 4 years of age. Children who have life limiting 
conditions; precious children who need constant care and, in some cases, end of life care, so they can be at home 
with their families where they belong, for whatever short time they have. Thank you." For more visit: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: April 3, 2015
End of Document
Markets rocked as oil price spikes on Yemen violence
Markets rocked as oil price spikes on Yemen violence
City A.M.
March 27, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 317 words
Byline: CHRIS PAPADOPOULLOS
Body
MARKETS were yesterday shaken by the prospect of an end to the era of super-cheap oil after air strikes on rebels 
in Yemen by Saudi Arabia and its allies threatened to disrupt world oil supplies.
Brent crude - a North Sea benchmark - jumped 4.5 per cent to $59 a barrel. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) - 
another benchmark oil price - climbed to $51.3 a barrel, a 4.2 per cent gain.
It had an immediate impact on the share price of firms dependent on fuel such as airlines. Easyjet, Ryanair and 
International Airlines Group saw their share prices drop by 2.8, 1.67 and 3.37 per cent respectively. Some market-
watchers also suggested they were down after the Germanwings plane disaster.
The FTSE 100 - an index that tracks the biggest 100 UK companies - fell by 1.37 per cent and ended the day at 
6895.33 points. It is now 2.02 per cent below its record close of 7037.67 reached on Monday. Gold prices jumped 
by a half a per cent to $1,202.80 an ounce in a sign invest-ors were rushing into safer assets.
"The advance in WTI is an interesting one because Yemen is not an oil producer of great significance," said Jameel 
Ahmad, chief market analyst at FXTM. "In fact, it was previously only seen as the 39th largest producer of oil. The 
major reason for the sudden intrigue from investors is because Yemen's geographic location is extremely close to 
Saudi Arabia and this nation, among others, getting involved in the escalating conflict has encouraged suspicions 
that oil production in the Middle East region might be disrupted."
Stocks also declined across the continent with the Euro Stoxx 50 - an index of 50 major European companies - 
closed 0.4 per cent lower.
Markets rocked as oil price spikes on Yemen violence
Risky technology shares suffered with the Stoxx Europe 600 technology index - a group of 600 technology 
companies - down 1.6 per cent. In the US, the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nasdaq closed at losses of 
0.23 and 0.27 per cent respectively.
Graphic
 
Higher oil prices dented airline shares, pushed investors into gold and hit riskier stocks
Load-Date: March 27, 2015
End of Document
EasyJet on path to profit after fuel price fall; Travel & leisure
EasyJet on path to profit after fuel price fall; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
March 27, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 23
Length: 448 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: Budget carrier looks to buck lossmaking half-year trend as bill drops £35m
Body
A lower fuel bill has set easyJet on a course to record an interim pre-tax profit for the first time in 13 years, Europe's 
second largest low-cost airline by revenue said yesterday.
Carolyn McCall , easyJet chief executive, said yesterday the company expected its fuel bill to be £35m less in the 
six months to the end of March compared with the same period a year earlier - highlighting how airlines are 
benefiting from the 50 per cent plunge in oil prices since last summer.
The euro's weakness against sterling is also helping easyJet - currency movements are set to generate a £20m 
benefit at its first-half results.
The budget airline is now expecting to report a performance ranging between a pre-tax loss of £5m and a profit of 
£10m at its first-half results on May 12.
If the company reports a pre-tax profit at these results, it will be the first time easyJet has done so since 2002. 
Then, it recorded a pre-tax profit of £1m for the six months to March 2002. In the six months to March last year, it 
reported a pre-tax loss of £53m.
Ms McCall said easyJet "has performed well in the first half of the year . . . easyJet continues to be well positioned 
to deliver sustainable returns to shareholders".
EasyJet on path to profit after fuel price fall; Travel & leisure
The first-half results coincide with the European winter, when holidaymakers travel less. The company has long 
relied on the busy summer holiday months to ensure it generates a full-year profit.
Ms McCall hinted that easyJet could pass on some of its fuel savings to customers in the form of lower fares. "We 
continue to expect that lower fuel costs will be beneficial for our customers as fares adjust," she said.
The Luton-based airline has been expanding across Europe, taking aim at markets such as Italy and France, where 
flag carriers such as Alitalia and Air France have struggled with higher employee costs and strikes.
Andrew Light, aviation analyst at Citi, said easyJet's profit guidance was better than he had anticipated. 
"Seasonally, its first half has almost always been lossmaking," he said.
Mark Simpson, a senior aviation analyst at Goodbody, a Dublin brokerage, said easyJet would face a tougher 
second half to its financial year: "They've been the pick of the airlines for the past four years but that game is 
changing."
Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost -carrier by revenue, which was rocked by profit warnings in 2013, is starting to 
copy some of the most successful aspects of easyJet's strategy. These include its sophisticated -digital marketing, 
and flying to larger airports, which has helped woo business travellers.
However, both easyJet and Ryanair are facing increased competition from smaller low-cost carriers, including 
Norwegian Air Shuttle and Vueling.
Load-Date: March 26, 2015
End of Document
Germanwings Crash Sends Airline Stocks Tumbling
Germanwings Crash Sends Airline Stocks Tumbling
International Business Times News
March 26, 2015 Thursday 9:48 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 490 words
Byline: Jessica Menton
Body
Mar 26, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Airline 
stocks lost altitude Thursday after officials said the co-pilot of the Germanwings flight that crashed into the French 
Alps Tuesday downed the plane on purpose. 
The announcement sent shares of Deutsche Lufthansa AG (ETR:LHA)[1] tumbling more than 3 percent Thursday 
and more than 5 percent this week. Andreas Lubitz, the co-pilot of Germanwings Flight 9525, "wanted to destroy 
the aircraft," said Marseille prosecutor Brice Robin Thursday. <nl/> The plane was operated by Germanwings, a 
budget airline owned by Lufthansa.<nl/> The A320 passenger plane carrying 150 people crashed near 
Barcelonnette, France, a town in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, Tuesday as it traveled from Barcelona, Spain, to 
Düsseldorf, Germany. Shares of Lufthansa dropped 2.88 percent Thursday, to 12.98 euros. <nl/><nl/> Deutsche 
Lufthansa AG stock price movement from March 23 to March 26. Shares of the company dropped more than 2.8 
percent Thursday, to 12.99 euros, and have tumbled more than 5 percent following the Germanwings Flight 9525 
crash on Tuesday. Thomson Reuters Eikon <nl/><nl/>European Airbus Group, the world's second-largest 
aerospace group after Boeing Co., also saw its shares sink following the crash because the company made the 
A320 passenger plane. Airbus had recently announced plans to increase production of its narrow-body A320 to 50 
a month following its latest earning release in February. The company's stock price lost more than 2 percent 
Tuesday following the initial reports of the accident. Since then, shares have risen 2 percent Thursday, to 60.14 
euros in Paris. <nl/> The aftermath of the crash has also weighed on other budget airlines this week. Irish low-cost 
airline Ryanair Holdings (LON:RYA)[2] dropped more than 3 percent Thursday in London, to $10.43, while 
American low-cost carrier Spirit Airlines Incorporated (NASDAQ:SAVE)[3] edged down nearly 1 percent, to $73.68, 
on the Nasdaq.<nl/> Meanwhile, shares of American Airlines Group Inc. (NASDAQ:AAL)[4] and United Continental 
Holdings Inc. (NYSE:UAL)[5] dropped more than 2 percent and 1 percent, respectively. The New York Stock 
Exchange Arca Airline Index[6], which tracks the performance of listed securities in the global passenger airline 
sector, including companies such as Delta Air Lines, Inc., Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Southwest Airlines Co., fell 
more than 1.5 percent.<nl/> [ 1]: https://www.google.com/finance?q=ETR%3ALHA...iFUUVZDiI6KcsAeUiIH4Ag [ 2]:       
  
 
 
 
https://www.google.com/finance?q=LON%3ARYA...mlUUVfHIIejKsAfgr4H4DA 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NASDAQ%3ASAVE...ylUUVZHWJ4ei8wbjt4DgAw 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NASDAQ%3AAAL...uk4UVfnPAoiPsgf9soCYCQ 
[ 
5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NYSE%3AUAL...wU4UVfCKDNON8Qa2kIEo 
[ 
6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.nyse.com/quote/index/XAL 
Germanwings Crash Sends Airline Stocks Tumbling
Load-Date: March 27, 2015
End of Document
Germanwings : European Airlines Scramble To Change Cockpit Rules
Germanwings: European Airlines Scramble To Change Cockpit Rules
RTT News (United States)
March 26, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 444 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The Germanwings plane crash has spurred European airlines to implement stringent cockpit rules 
widely followed in the U.S., after it emerged a lone co-pilot forced the plane into its fatal descent, reports said on 
Thursday.
Airline passengers are in a state of fear after a probe blamed Andreas Lubitz - the 27-year-old co-pilot of the 
Germanwings flight - for wantonly causing the crash, after he grabbed the chance to lock himself in the cockpit 
when the pilot had gone to the lavatory.
That has stirred airlines in Canada and Europe into incorporating a U.S. rule that a commercial pilot just can't be left 
alone in the cockpit.
Four airliners, including EasyJet and Norwegian Air Shuttle, are reported to have announced they would implement 
the new cockpit rules, Bloomberg said.
Air Canada would implement the change without delay, while the U.K.'s EasyJet Plc will adopt the standard Friday.
While it is piquant that the absence of such a measure gave the co-pilot the chance to commit the crash, it also 
provides a sense of security that now onwards such dastardly incidents do not recur.
Apparently, the Germanwings crash has infused a sense of urgency and stirred countries into action on a war 
footing. Worldover, it's up to an airline to decide whether to allow a pilot alone in the cockpit.
The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) is mulling on adequate safety measures that need to be taken in 
light of the crash.
The U.K. Civil Aviation Authority is reported to have asked airlines to consider implementing the policy that a cockpit 
have two people at all times. Air France is also reported to be toeing the line and has been in touch with EASA.
Germanwings parent Deutsche Lufthansa AG's rules allow the pilot or co-pilot to be alone on the cockpit for a short 
time, and that policy hasn't changed at the airline.
Air Berlin PLC said that as of Friday two staff members would always be in the cockpit even if the pilot or co-pilot 
stepped out. Ryanair Holdings PLC reportedly has such a policy.
Germanwings : European Airlines Scramble To Change Cockpit Rules
The ill-fated Airbus A320, from Barcelona to Dusseldorf, began to descend from a high altitude after losing radio 
contact and crashed into the French alps on Tuesday morning, killing all 150 people on board.
Information from the black box cockpit voice recorder showed that the co-pilot did not say a word after the pilot left 
the cockpit. The pilot then speaks tries to contact the co-pilot over an interphone, but there is no response and only 
his breathing could be heard. The audio also has sounds of desperate passengers in their final moments.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 26, 2015
End of Document
Crash poses more airline questions; The Germanwings tragedy has put the spotlight back on airline safety. 
Adam Hignett and Michael Bow report
Crash poses more airline questions; The Germanwings tragedy has put the 
spotlight back on airline safety. Adam Hignett and Michael Bow report
City A.M.
March 26, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 473 words
Byline: Adam Hignett and Michael Bow
Body
THE CRASH of Germanwings flight 9525 and the loss of 150 passengers and crew on Tuesday has put aviation 
safety under renewed scrutiny.
Despite robust figures showing rising safety standards in the aviation industry - 2014 was the safest year on record 
so far, according to the International Air Transport Associat-ion - such tragedies spark rising levels of insecurity 
among passengers, and pose difficult questions for the airline sector.
Part of the bewilderment and shock at Tuesday's tragedy comes from the ordinary circumstances of the flight, 
which aircraft investigators are still probing at the crash site in southern France.
"It is inexplicable this could happen to a plane free of technical problems and with an experienced, Lufthansatrained 
pilot," Carsten Spohr, head of Germanwings' parent Lufthansa, said.
The plane involved was the wellrespected A320 model, manufactured by aerospace giant Airbus, one of the most 
popular planes in the sector.
"There are thousands of A320s used around the world and they have a good safety record considering how many 
there are and how many flight miles they have done," Irwin Mitchell partner Jim Morris, a former RAF pilot, said.
The A320 family of aircraft, dubbed the "Ford Focus" of the aviation industry for their ubiquity and reliability, have 
been involved in 11 fatal crashes since their introduction in 1988, making it one of the safest planes currently flying 
the skies.
Crash poses more airline questions; The Germanwings tragedy has put the spotlight back on airline safety. 
Adam Hignett and Michael Bow report
For Lufthansa, which launched Ger-manwings in 2002 to compete with budget rivals such as easyJet and Ryanair, 
the tragedy marks the latest challenge following a bout of industrial action by pilots this year.
Despite the tragic setback, negative sentiment towards the aviation industry in the wake of an air disaster does not 
linger, Paul Hayes, safety director at aviation consultants Ascend, said.
"Brands of the airlines and manufacturers involved normally see a loss of value on their shares. This happens every 
time, but it's transitory. In a more general sense you get passengers avoiding flying on Germanwings and flying on 
Airbuses but it's a small percentage and it lasts a few days or maximum a couple of weeks and then it fades."
Yet, despite robust safety standards across the industry, engineers say more sophisticated technology exists which 
could improve plane safety - but which have so far not been used.
"There's always room for improvement," says Philippa Oldham, head of transport at the Institution of Mech-anical 
Engineers "You can improve the system over time with things like active control monitoring systems, which will give 
you better instrumentation."
However, Hayes adds that aviation safety standards are outpacing the expansion of the industry itself. "Despite 
such high-profile accidents, and accidents where you get two or three in close proximity, air safety is improving 
considerably."
Graphic
 
Germanwings boss Thomas WinkelmannMourners pay their respects to the 150 ; passengers and crew lost in 
Tuesday's crash
Load-Date: March 26, 2015
End of Document
Safety deeply instilled at parent airline that last suffered fatality in 1993 Lufthansa
Safety deeply instilled at parent airline that last suffered fatality in 1993; 
Lufthansa
Financial Times (London, England)
March 25, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 401 words
Byline: Chris Bryant in Frankfurt
Body
The crash of a Germanwings flight with 150 passengers and crew on board is a heavy blow for its parent Lufthansa.
Lufthansa has a good safety record and last had a fatal accident in 1993. Two people died when a plane overshot 
the runway in Poland.
Its no-frills Germanwings subsidiary, founded in 2002, had until yesterday never suffered a fatality.
Thomas Winkelmann, Germanwings' managing director, said the pilot who flew the A320 jet had more than 10 
years' experience for Germanwings and Lufthansa. Although the aircraft was 24 years old, Mr Winkelmann said that 
should not have been an issue.
Lufthansa Technik, the airline's maintenance unit, is also well respected. Routine checks were carried out on the 
aircraft on Monday and its last big check-up took place in 2013, as scheduled.
Following a double tragedy at Malaysia Airlines last year, Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa's chief executive, told the 
Financial Times that passenger safety was top priority. "Regardless of which job I had in Lufthansa, regardless if we 
made losses or profits . . . the safety-first issue is deep, deep, deep in my thinking of running Lufthansa," he said.
Safety deeply instilled at parent airline that last suffered fatality in 1993 Lufthansa
Mr Spohr holds a pilot licence for the A320 family of aircraft and served as head of the passenger airline unit before 
his promotion to chief executive.
The accident comes at a particularly difficult moment for the airline. Its pilots went on strike for three days last week 
and there were 15 strike days last year, causing 8,600 flight cancellations and incurring EUR232m in costs.
The industrial action is ostensibly about changes to early retirement rules but its root cause is Lufthansa's strategy 
of operating more low-cost flights on short and long-haul routes.
Competition from budget airlines in Europe and on routes to Asia by Middle Eastern carriers contributed to a fall in 
Lufthansa profits last year.
In a first step to improve its competitiveness, Lufthansa transferred all European direct flights that do not serve its 
main hubs in Munich and Frankfurt to the Germanwings brand.
The low-cost airline cut losses considerably last year and aims to break even in 2015. Although a no-frills brand, 
Germanwings' cost base is still higher than at rivals EasyJet and Ryanair, in part because its pilots are protected by 
a union-negotiated wage agreement. That has spurred Mr Spohr's plans to expand the airline's little-known 
Eurowings brand, where pilots are paid less.
Load-Date: March 24, 2015
End of Document
Crash is Germanwings' first fatal accident since 2002 start
Crash is Germanwings' first fatal accident since 2002 start
Associated Press Financial Wire
March 24, 2015 Tuesday 6:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 440 words
Byline: By DAVID McHUGH, Associated Press
Dateline: FRANKFURT, Germany 
Body
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Germanwings, a low-cost unit of Lufthansa, had recorded no accidents involving 
passenger deaths until one of its planes crashed in the French Alps on Tuesday, killing all 150 on board.
Aviation accident databases such as aviation-safety.net showed no fatalities since the carrier was founded in 2002.
Germany's Spiegel magazine has reported an incident from 2010, when two pilots nearly passed out as they landed 
in Cologne. The magazine said contaminated cabin air was suspected.
Meanwhile, Germanwings' parent company, Lufthansa, has not recorded a passenger fatality since 1993, when 
another Airbus A320 overshot a runway in Warsaw, Poland, killing one crew and one of 64 passengers.
German media have widely reported an incident on Nov. 5 in which a Lufthansa A321-200 flying from Bilbao, Spain, 
to Munich, Germany, went into a sudden descent shortly after reaching cruising altitude. The dive was believed 
connected to faulty data from frozen flight data sensors. The crew was able to switch off a flight computer and 
regain control.
Germanwings, which has a fleet of around 78 aircraft flying to 130 destinations, plays a key role in Lufthansa's effort 
to compete against low-cost carriers such as Easyjet and Ryanair.
In January it finished taking over all of Lufthansa's lossmaking Europe-only flights, outside the main Lufthansa 
feeder hubs for international traffic in Frankfurt and Munich. Lufthansa says Germanwings' lower operating costs 
helped reduce those losses last year, and that the unit may break even this year.
Lufthansa says better results at Germanwings, along with lower fuel costs, should boost earnings for its airlines 
division - which also includes Swiss, Eurowings, Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Austrian Airlines - this year.
Germanwings, which is based in Cologne, offers customers choice of three seat categories: Basic, Smart and Best, 
under the motto: "Reasonably priced but not cheap." The basic level doesn't include checked baggage or food, 
while Smart offers one free checked bag and Best two, in addition to other extras.
Crash is Germanwings' first fatal accident since 2002 start
Those categories are expected to be kept as Lufthansa expands low-cost flights internationally through its 
Eurowings division, a stand-alone lower-cost airline that aims to compete with Gulf-based airlines such as Emirates, 
Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways.
The Germanwings brand will be merged into Eurowings later this year for sales purposes, the airline says, although 
passengers will still see planes painted with Germanwings markings for the time being and Germanwings flight 
codes will remain.
___
Rhonda Shafner in New York contributed to this report.
Load-Date: March 25, 2015
End of Document
Germanwings Frequent Fliers Are Undeterred
Germanwings Frequent Fliers Are Undeterred
International Business Times News
March 24, 2015 Tuesday 5:41 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 615 words
Body
Mar 24, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Frequent 
flier Kenneth Himschoot said he never expected a Germanwings flight to crash. Ryanair, maybe, where sometimes 
flight attendants forget to double-check the door locks, but never Germanwings, which he flies often because of 
their cheap tickets and professional service, Himschoot said.<nl/>
 "There's certainly no cost-cutting on safety, so this a real surprise," said Himschoot, a software developer from 
Eeklo, Belgium, adding that he'd flown over the site of the crash the night before without issue. "Germanwings was 
regarded everywhere here as one of the better groups."<nl/> Himschoot, like many others, was reeling from the 
news[1] that Flight 4U 9525 had crashed in the French Alps. The Airbus 320 was en route from Barcelona to 
Düsseldorf Tuesday morning when it went down in the mountains, likely killing the 144 passengers and six crew 
members on board. In a year seemingly full of deadly plane crashes -- including Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 and 
AirAsia Flight 8501 -- previous Germanwings passengers defended the budget airline after the disaster. Their 
experiences with the airline were positive, they told International Business Times, and they'd fly Germanwings[2] 
again.<nl/> Himschoot, 35, said he took 134 flights last year, often using Germanwings from Munich to Barcelona. 
He never felt in danger, and the planes were all well-maintained -- "brand-spanking new, not a scratch on them," 
Himschoot said.<nl/> The Germanwings Airbus 320 that crashed Tuesday was 24 years old, according to 
Reuters[3], but the plane King's College London student Mallory Lee took from Barcelona to Düsseldorf on Dec. 16 
didn't seem outdated. It felt clean, she said, and passengers had a lot of legroom. "They had those new, thinner 
seats, you know?" she wrote in an online interview. "So [they] probably upgraded that at least in the past few 
years."<nl/> Lee had decided on Germanwings because of price, because it offered the only late flight and because 
she'd heard positive reviews about its parent company, Lufthansa. Boarding took a while -- so long that at one 
point, the man ahead of her got out of line to get a beer -- but she had no problems. The flight itself was uneventful. 
The plane encountered a bit of turbulence and ended up landing a few minutes early. "Germanwings treated me 
well, and I'd fly them again," Lee, 24, told IBTimes.<nl/> Nike Oesterle, a social media manager in Wellington, New 
Zealand, has taken Germanwings from Düsseldorf to Barcelona, Milan and Berlin before. She wrote in an email that 
nothing troublesome happened during her flight, noting that bumpy rides are more the fault of the weather than the 
airline.<nl/> "Whatever caused this accident has first to be figured out, which may take weeks, but Germanwings 
still is a highly reliable airline," said Oesterle, 36. "Air travel still is one of the safest ways to travel -- as sad as this 
may 
sound 
right 
now."<nl/> 
[ 
1]: 
https://www.google.com/url?sa=t...=j......c=s...rce=newssearch...1...=rja...t=8...=0CCEQ-
AsoBDAA...=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2F2015%2F03%2F25%2Fworld%2Feurope%2Fgermanwings-
crash.html...ZoQRVc3aA8yhNse6gfgI...=AFQjCNHDWJkDqVQh4bLZN5KpJGL6ZFpX5Q 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Germanwings Frequent Fliers Are Undeterred
http://www.ibtimes.com/germanwings-safety-record-flight-4u-9525-no-crashes-or-fatalities-1857014 [ 3]:            
https://www.google.com/url?sa=t...=j......c=s...rce=web...1...=rja...t=8...=0CB8QqQIwAA...=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.re
uters.com%2Farticle%2F2015%2F03%2F24%2Fus-france-crash-airbus-lufthansa-
idUSKBN0MK0ZP20150324...S4gRVerFG4i6ggS7mIOgBA...=AFQjCNFl9-
g2oCMtMsiZpno6xTDzWwUENg...=bv.89184060,d.eXY 
Load-Date: March 24, 2015
End of Document
Airbus , Lufthansa Shares Tumble After Germanwings Crash
Airbus, Lufthansa Shares Tumble After Germanwings Crash
International Business Times News
March 24, 2015 Tuesday 5:41 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 573 words
Byline: Jessica Menton
Body
Mar 24, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Shares of 
Airbus Group NV (EPA:AIR)[1] dropped nearly 2 percent Tuesday after an A320 passenger plane carrying 150 
people crashed in the French Alps[2]. The plane was operated by Germanwings, a budget airline owned by 
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (ETR:LHA)[3], whose shares tumbled more than 5 percent following the initial reports of 
the crash.<nl/> Germanwings Flight 4U 9525 was traveling from Barcelona, Spain, to Düsseldorf, Germany, later 
crashing near Barcelonnette, France, a town in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence. 
"The conditions of the accident, which have not yet been clarified, lead us to think there are no survivors," French 
President François Hollande announced Tuesday.<nl/> European Airbus Group, the world's second-largest 
aerospace group after Boeing Co. (NYSE:BA[4]), announced plans last month to increase production of its narrow 
body A320 to 50 a month. In February, the company reported that earnings, excluding items, rose 54 percent last 
year, to 4 billion euros ($4.56 billion), as revenue gained 5 percent, to 60.7 billion euros ($66.4 billion).<nl/> Shares 
of Airbus Group dropped more than 2 percent Tuesday, to 59.14 euros in Paris, while Lufthansa's stock price 
plunged more than 5 percent, to 13.07 euros in Frankfurt. Meanwhile, American low-cost carrier Spirit Airlines 
Incorporated (NASDAQ:SAVE[5]) edged down 0.62 percent, to $77.23, on the Nasdaq, while Irish low-cost 
airline Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY[6]) traded flat, up just 0.08 percent, to $65.26.<nl/> Following the 
opening bell in U.S. financial markets, shares of American Airlines Group Inc. (NASDAQ:AAL[7]), Delta Air Lines, 
Inc. (NYSE:DAL[8]) and Southwest Airlines Co. (NYSE:LUV[9]) all edged lower.<nl/><nl/> Shares of Airbus Group 
(EPA:AIR) dropped more than 2 percent Tuesday to 59.14 euros, while Deutsche Lufthansa AG's (ETR:LHA) stock 
price plunged more than 5 percent to 13.07 euros. Yahoo Finance <nl/><nl/>Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa's CEO, said 
on Twitter that it would be a "dark day" for the airline.<nl/> We do not yet know what has happened to flight 4U 
9525. My deepest sympathy goes to the families and friends of our passengers and crew 1/2<nl/> — Deutsche 
Lufthansa (@Lufthansa_DE) March 24, 2015[10]<nl/> 2/2 on 4U 9525. If our fears are confirmed, this is a dark day 
for Germanwings." Carsten Spohr;<nl/> — Deutsche Lufthansa (@Lufthansa_DE) March 24, 2015[11]<nl/> [ 1]: 
https://www.google.com/finance?q=EPA%3AAIR...b3ARVej1Be2osgfqsIGoCA 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.ibtimes.com/germanwings-a320-crash-plane-carrying-144-passengers-6-crew-crashes-french-alps-
1856924 [ 3]:            https://www.google.com/finance?q=ETR%3ALHA...jnARVZngB6KcsAeUiIH4Ag [ 4]:            
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NYSE%3ABA...J3YRVaGtJYiPsgf9soCYCQ 
[ 
5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NYSE%3ASAVE...lncRVbiLBOr9sge-soGQDg 
[ 
6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NASDAQ%3ARYAAY...L3gRVbmrI6S9sAfi1oHgDw 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NASDAQ%3AAAL...L3gRVbmrI6S9sAfi1oHgDw 
[ 
8]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Airbus , Lufthansa Shares Tumble After Germanwings Crash
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NYSE%3ADAL...PHkRVfmtN-r9sge-soGQDg 
[ 
9]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.google.com/finance?q=NYSE%3ALUV...ZHkRVYDZDIz3sQeK34CwCQ 
[ 
10]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://twitter.com/Lufthansa_DE/status/580332058838466560 
[ 
11]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://twitter.com/Lufthansa_DE/status/580339793122447361 
Load-Date: March 24, 2015
End of Document
Germanwings Is Lufthansa 's Low-Cost Answer To Ryanair , EasyJet
Germanwings Is Lufthansa's Low-Cost Answer To Ryanair, EasyJet
International Business Times News
March 24, 2015 Tuesday 11:11 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 793 words
Byline: Ismat Sarah Mangla
Body
Mar 24, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> 
Germanwings, the airline operating Flight 9525 that crashed in the French Alps[1] Tuesday, may not be well known 
outside Europe. But the low-cost carrier owned by Lufthansa Group is emblematic of a trend many flag carriers in 
Europe are embracing: launching their own budget airlines for short-haul flights to compete with wildly successful 
low-cost carriers that have snatched 26 percent of market share[2] in Europe.<nl/>
 'It's a defensive move to help the European flag airlines protect their market share and revenue against budget 
airlines like Ryanair and EasyJet,' airline industry analyst Henry Harteveldt said. 'They have launched their own 
budget airlines as point-to-point carriers predominantly outside primary hubs and gateway cities.' <nl/> Other 
examples include Air France's Hop! and KLM's Transavia Airlines, which are focused on leisure travelers within 
Europe. There is a difference, however, between airlines like Lufthansa and their American counterparts that have 
tried the same strategy. Delta, for example, launched Song in 2003 (it folded in 2006), while United operated Ted 
from 2004 to 2009. <nl/> 'Major European airlines have generally preferred to buy existing low-cost carriers instead 
of starting low-cost subsidiaries from scratch,' said Maxwell Leitschuh, transportation analyst at iJET International. 
'By contrast, major U.S. carriers have generally tried to start their own low-cost subsidiaries from scratch, all of 
which have failed.' <nl/> Germanwings, which is based in Cologne, is one such example. The low-cost airline 
carried more than 16 million passengers in 2013 and was started in 2002 as a subsidiary of German regional carrier 
Eurowings, which was subsequently acquired by Lufthansa in 2009. Lufthansa used Eurowings as a feeder airline 
under the Lufthansa Regional brand and used Germanwings as its low-cost carrier. Lufthansa later shifted all of its 
short-haul, nonhub flights -- those not flying through Munich or Frankfurt -- to Germanwings in 2012.<nl/> Several 
other airlines in Europe have followed similar models, said Leitschuh. 'Notable examples include Lufthansa buying 
Germanwings, Iberia buying Vueling, Alitalia buying Volare, and KLM buying Transavia.'<nl/> Another reason 
European carriers may have been more successful in their budget ventures than American airlines is that the low-
cost carriers in Europe seem to actually be independent of their parent airlines. <nl/> 'In the U.S., where airlines 
have tried this airline within an airline model, it hasn't worked,' Harteveldt said. 'What's different in the European 
cases is that they are truly separate airlines with their own operating certificates, policies, flight manuals, things like 
that. So they're really independent of the larger long-haul flag airline.' <nl/> That independence has allowed them to 
save on cost, Harteveldt said. For example, it's unlikely that Germanwings pilots and flight crew are paid as 
handsomely as Lufthansa employees. Of course, he adds, that's also 'a source of labor strife within these airline 
groups' -- as evidenced by the pilot strikes plaguing Lufthansa. <nl/> But, experts caution, low-cost doesn't mean 
scrimping on safety. All airlines in Europe must adhere to the same safety standards, and the German aviation 
Germanwings Is Lufthansa 's Low-Cost Answer To Ryanair , EasyJet
industry, and Lufthansa in particular, is known for its sober approach. <nl/> Airline industry analysts said it has a 
good safety record. The airline has not been involved in any previous known accidents, FlightSafe said. The 
German airline industry in general is synonymous with taking judicious safety precautions. Germanwings has had 
no previous accidents[3], the Aviation Safety Network reported. In fact, Tuesday's incident is the first of its kind 
among the budget airlines operated by European flag carriers. And established low-cost carriers like Ryanair and 
EasyJet have clean safety records, as well.<nl/> Lufthansa announced in November it would actually eliminate the 
Germanwings brand and instead relaunch Eurowings[4], which would take over Germanwings flights, as a separate 
brand. Lufthansa's goal is to expand its low-cost arm beyond Germany and compete with other regional budget 
carriers. That move may not come soon enough for Germanwings, which until now, had a sterling record.<nl/> [ 1]: 
http://www.ibtimes.com/germanwings-flight-9525-black-box-4-things-flight-recorders-could-reveal-about-french-
1857656 [ 2]:            http://epthinktank.eu/2014/06/26/low-cost-carriers-in-europe/ [ 3]:            http://aviation-
safety.net/database/operator/airline.php?var=10548 [ 4]:            http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/6d86e350-7b03-
11e4-8646-00144feabdc0.html 
Load-Date: March 25, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair steps up digital competition Travel & leisure. Innovation
Ryanair steps up digital competition; Travel & leisure. Innovation
Financial Times (London, England)
March 23, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 847 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: Airline's in-house media lab is working to improve on rival easyJet's slick online presence
Body
Inside a nondescript office block near Dublin airport, huge images of bears and Lego men are plastered across 
coloured walls, and employees are encouraged to scribble on glass partitions. "Unless it's crazy, ambitious and 
delusional, it's not worth our time," declares one ceiling-to-floor slogan.
You might think you have entered the offices of a tech start-up, but this is Ryanair's new Digital Labs, which is 
touted by Europe's largest low-cost airline as "a digital media lab with an airline attached".
Labs is part of a business and culture transformation being attempted by Ryanair to make the Irish airline more 
customer friendly after two profit warnings and a backlash over poor service forced outspoken chief executive 
Michael O'Leary to admit it was upsetting too many people .
The internet provided the means for Ryanair and other budget airlines to flourish in the 1990s by cutting out travel 
agents and selling tickets directly to customers via websites. But Ryanair, in contrast with some rivals, failed to 
grasp the sales and customer service opportunities created by the -smartphone age and sophisticated -digital 
marketing - instead, it stuck with a garish website that made buying a ticket an infuriating experience.
Now Ryanair is trying to match its competitors' digital innovation through Labs, in moves that have put arch rival 
easyJet on the defensive.
Ryanair steps up digital competition Travel & leisure. Innovation
"The short term is catch-up," says John Hurley, Ryanair's chief technology officer. "Then you draw level, which is 
going to be summer or October. But the ambition is to be a leader. We have all the cards - we just haven't played 
them properly."
Hard business logic underpins Ryanair's creation of Labs. The initiative is regarded as central to fulfilling Ryanair's 
ambitious target to fly 160m passengers by 2024, up from 89m in the past year, after placing an order for 175 new 
aircraft . If Ryanair does not do a better job with its website and customer service, it will struggle to hit the target.
Inside Labs, it is clear who Ryanair is playing catch-up with.
A whiteboard headed "Competition" is topped by easyJet, Europe's second-largest low-cost airline and widely seen 
as first mover in the effort to lure more customers with a better website and digital services.
Others include BritishAirways, the UK flag carrier; Vueling, the Spanish budget airline; and Skyscanner, the flight, 
hotel and car hire search engine.
Ryanair is hiring about 160 people to staff Labs, taking the number employed in digital jobs to 200. This includes 
analysts, data scientists, designers and software developers.
Labs must pay its way, Mr Hurley stresses, saying digital products will be judged by how many visits to Ryanair's 
website end with a sale - whether it is flights, hotels or car hire.
Much of Ryanair's Labs activity is focused on overhauling its website, and developing the app launched last year. 
This year it will launch personalised home pages that differentiate between customers, a fare comparison with 
rivals, and a function that will enable people to hold on to a ticket price they have previously found on the site - thus 
avoiding the disappointment of seeing the fare rise.
While some features are new, most of its "innovations" merely bring it into line with rivals. And Ryanair still has 
some way to go with basic digital steps: a web search for, say, "cheap flights to Germany" does not return Ryanair 
on the first page of results.
But the airline's plan to turn its website - which attracts 40m hits a month - into an online travel platform will take it 
beyond what rivals have done. Taking inspiration from TripAdvisor and Amazon, Mr Hurley wants to build an online 
forum where travellers post both good and bad reviews about their holidays. This would have been unthinkable at 
the old Ryanair, where Mr O'Leary showed disdain for customer complaints.
At easyJet's Luton headquarters, the pressure to stay ahead of rivals is apparent. "It's crunch time for us," says 
Peter Duffy, the airline's head of marketing. "How do we continue taking leadership in the space?"
He and James Millett, easyJet's head of digital, are prickly about the "copying" they have seen, and take swipes at 
Ryanair's online progress.
EasyJet will not follow suit on Ryanair's travel community idea, Mr Duffy says, and by his own admission he is 
"sniffy" about the idea.
Both claim that easyJet's latest project - a pilot project with London's Gatwick airport that uses location data to send 
gate and baggage reclaim information to its mobile app - gives them an edge. EasyJet was also quick to announce 
this month that its app would be extended to the Apple Watch.
But Mr Hurley also talks about similar plans at Ryanair, highlighting how a lead by any airline in digital products is 
unlikely to be maintained for long.
Analysts say these products are crucial to airlines, giving them significant potential to generate additional revenue.
Stephen Furlong, analyst at Davy, Ryanair's broker, says the airline has made a "huge jump in developments on 
the digital front", adding: "They were very behind and now have a chance to move ahead."
Ryanair steps up digital competition Travel & leisure. Innovation
Load-Date: March 22, 2015
End of Document
BUSINESS WATCH: AIRLINE INDUSTRY
BUSINESS WATCH: AIRLINE INDUSTRY
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
March 23, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 4
Length: 35 words
Byline: ROBERT WALL
Body
ABSTRACT
UK Civil Aviation Authority is taking action against Aer Lingus, Wizz Air and Jet2 regarding their treatment of 
passengers when flights are disrupted; expresses concern over actions of Ryanair Holdings (S)
Load-Date: March 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches Stansted winter 2015 schedule
Ryanair launches Stansted winter 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 23, 2015 Monday 5:42 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 183 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has launched its Stansted winter 2015 schedule with two new routes to Castellon and 
Ponta Delgada, and extra flights on 23 other routes.
Body
Ryanair's Stansted winter 2015 schedule will deliver: 110 routes in total; more flights on 23 routes including Berlin 
(4 x daily), Edinburgh (4 x daily), Glasgow (4 x daily), Madrid (4 x daily), Milan (5 x daily), Prague (2 x daily), Rome 
(5 x daily) and Warsaw (4 x daily); 1,029 weekly flights; over 18m customers p.a. (up 1.6m, 10% growth); and 
18,000"on-site"jobs p.a. UK customers and visitors can now choose from 110 routes from London Stansted next 
winter, while enjoying allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app 
with mobile boarding passes, and Ryanair's Family Extra and Business Plus services. Ryanair's Chief Marketing 
Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair will continue to connect London with Europe's key centres of business, with 
more flights and improved schedules to and from major cities including Berlin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Madrid, Milan, 
Prague, Rome and Warsaw, making Ryanair the ideal choice for business customers, and reaffirming Stansted as 
the gateway to London, with more European connections than any other London airport."
Load-Date: March 29, 2015
End of Document
Stock take: market week
Stock take: market week
Sunday Business Post
March 22, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 586 words
Body
**Ryanair pulls plug on transatlantic plans**
Rumours of a Ryanair play for Europe to US routes have been bubbling for years, and reports early last week 
suggested it was moving closer to offering a transatlantic service. However, the airline then released a statement 
saying that its board had    not considered or approved any transatlantic project and does not intend to do so  .
   It is reported that following the board's clarification, any pursuit of long haul operations by Ryanair would be 
through a separate company. The establishment of a long haul subsidiary would be reliant upon the sourcing of 
appropriate long haul aircraft, making any immediate launch unlikely in our view. We view this clarification from 
Ryanair positively with the carrier's sights firmly set on the task at hand, namely, the accumulation of intra-
European point-to-point market share.  
*Investec briefing note*
..................................
**Yahoo to shut its China office**
Hundreds of workers will lose their jobs after it emerged last week that Yahoo is pulling the plug on its office in 
China.
   An R&D facility like this is a huge cost, and for a company as weak as Yahoo is now, it doesn't make sense. 
Yahoo doesn't have significance in China. Yahoo can't really recruit top people and Chinese firms are not going to 
advertise on Yahoo.  
*Shaun Rein, managing director of China Market Research in Shanghai*
..................................
Stock take: market week
**Moody's concerns about Russia could weigh on Carlsberg's profitability**
Carlsberg could come under significant pressure as declining Russian demand, ongoing rouble weakness and the 
Russian fragile macroeconomic environment weigh on its profitability in 2015, according to a new report from 
Moody's Investors Service.
   Carlsberg's debt to Ebitda ratio could exceed the 3.0x threshold for a Baa2 rating, unless it controls costs and 
cash consumption and takes measures to reduce debt in 2015.  
*Paolo Leschiutta, a Moody's vice-president, senior credit officer and author of the report*
..................................
**Nintendo announces mobile gaming plans**
Nintendo has announced plans to develop new games for smartphones, after striking a deal with Japanese mobiale 
gaming company DeNA. The move marks the latest chapter for Nintendo, which can traces its origins back to 1889 
when Fusajiro Yamauchi began manufacturing Japanese playing cards in Kyoto.
   Very simply put, it is structurally the same as when Nintendo, which was founded 125 years ago when there were 
no TVs, started to aggressively take advantage of TV as a communication channel. Now that smart devices have 
grown to become the window for so many people to personally connect with society, it would be a waste not to use 
these devices.  
*Satoru Iwata, director and president, Nintendo*
..................................
**Job cuts at Dublin office of Ericsson**
Global communications company Ericsson has announced that 71 jobs will be cut at its Dublin office in Clonskeagh. 
A voluntary redundancy programme will be put in place to help achieve the cuts, which come just days after 
Ericsson announced hundreds of job cuts in Sweden.
   Cost and efficiency programme announced in November, 2014, now moving into next phase with activities 
worldwide . . . 2015 activities will mainly target structural improvements in R&D, service delivery and supply globally 
. . . Includes both headcount reductions as well as savings in external costs across operations globally.  
*Ericsson statement issued earlier this month*
Load-Date: March 23, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair botches take-off for transatlantic flights Travel & leisure
Ryanair botches take-off for transatlantic flights; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
March 21, 2015 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - WEEK IN REVIEW; Pg. 9
Length: 250 words
Byline: Jane Wild in London
Body
Ryanair's hopes for cheap fares across the Atlantic seemed a step closer after the Financial Times reported the 
airline's statement on Monday that its board had approved the venture.
But by Thursday the company had been forced into an embarrassing retraction, with Michael O'Leary apologising 
and saying Ryanair had "f***** up" .
Blaming a "miscommunication", the outspoken chief executive said the board had not, after all, signed off the plan 
to set up a separate transatlantic airline.
It had taken three days to address the "error" because the day after the story was published online was St Patrick's 
day and on Wednesday and Thursday he was travelling, Mr O'Leary said.
In a statement issued to the stock exchange, the Irish airline said: "The board of Ryanair Holdings Plc wishes to 
clarify that it has not considered or approved any transatlantic project and does not intend to do so."
Mr O'Leary has talked for years about offering flights from £10 between Europe and the US. One reason Ryanair 
has not done so is the unavailability of aircraft, given order backlogs for the necessary fuel-efficient jets such as the 
Airbus 350 and Boeing 787 Dreamliner.
Ryanair botches take-off for transatlantic flights Travel & leisure
Mr O'Leary said on Thursday that Ryanair still wanted to go ahead with transatlantic flights and was in talks with the 
aircraft makers.
City analysts expressed surprise that the market had not been notified of the apparent decision to move ahead with 
the transatlantic plan before the media, given that it would be a significant shift in strategy.
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa strikes enter third day; many flights canceled
Lufthansa strikes enter third day; many flights canceled
Associated Press Financial Wire
March 20, 2015 Friday 3:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 397 words
Byline: By DAVID RISING, Associated Press
Dateline: BERLIN 
Body
BERLIN (AP) - Lufthansa canceled hundreds more flights Friday as pilots at Germany's largest airline went on 
strike for the third consecutive day and announced they would continue the walk-out over the weekend.
In what is becoming an increasingly acrimonious labor dispute, nearly 800 short- and medium-haul Lufthansa flights 
were canceled Friday, including 90 related to an Italian air traffic controllers' strike.
Lufthansa said it would also have to cancel 74 long-haul flights Saturday and multiple cargo flights. Since the strikes 
began Wednesday, some 180,000 passengers have been affected, the airline said.
Lufthansa has been trying to find savings in the face of stiff competition from European budget airlines like Ryanair 
and EasyJet and major Gulf airlines like Emirates, Etihad and Qatar Airways.
The German government, alongside France, is also pressing the European Union to demand a fair playing field with 
the Gulf airlines, which are accused of receiving billions in states subsidies.
Lufthansa operates lower-cost carriers Germanwings and Eurowings, and announced it will add budget long-haul 
services at the end of the year in collaboration with SunExpress, a joint venture with Turkish Airlines.
The current dispute with the Vereinigung Cockpit union centers on a plan to cut transition payments for pilots 
seeking early retirement. The union has hit various Lufthansa units with around a dozen short-term walkouts over 
recent months.
Speaking in Washington earlier this week, Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr suggested the airline was set in its 
course.
"We are standing up to what we believe is right for the future sustainability of Lufthansa," Spohr said. "We have to 
do whatever it takes to create that future sustainability."
Lufthansa said in a statement after the strike extension that it had already presented a better offer to the union this 
month but that it had been rejected.
Lufthansa strikes enter third day; many flights canceled
"With the notice of a fourth strike in just one week, the pilots have not only escalated the labor dispute too far, they 
have removed themselves even farther from a solution," the company said.
Vereinigung Cockpit accused Lufthansa of intransigence, but said a return to the negotiating table was possible 
anytime.
"But this would require Lufthansa to demonstrate a serious will to reach an agreement," spokeswoman Ilona Ritter 
said.
___
David Koenig contributed to this report from Washington
Load-Date: March 21, 2015
End of Document
Sorry, Bargain Hunters: No Ryanair Across The Atlantic
Sorry, Bargain Hunters: No Ryanair Across The Atlantic
International Business Times News
March 20, 2015 Friday 12:13 AM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 525 words
Byline: Ismat Sarah Mangla
Body
Mar 19, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> If you were 
thinking about the possiblity of flying across the Atlantic for a mere $15, you might want to cool your jets. Business 
and travel media has been abuzz since Monday, when the Financial Times reported[1] that the board of low-cost 
European carrier Ryanair had approved plans for a transatlantic service that would sell tickets for as low as 10 
pounds one-way. 
But Ryanair released a statement on Thursday[2] announcing that no such plan was in place. <nl/> "In the light of 
recent press coverage, the Board of Ryanair Holdings Plc wishes to clarify that it has not considered or approved 
any transatlantic project and does not intend to do so," the Irish company announced in a statement. <nl/> The 
Financial Times followed up its original story -- that had served as the source for a tide of other stories around the 
media -- with another on Thursday[3] that claimed Ryanair was making "a U-turn" on its transatlantic plans. The 
FT's original story had quoted a company statement that read, 'The board of Ryanair, like any Plc, have approved 
the business plans for future growth, including transatlantic. We are talking to manufacturers about long-haul 
aircraft but can't comment further on this.'<nl/> But Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said that the whole thing was a 
"miscommunication." Because the Financial Times piece was released just before St. Patrick's Day, O'Leary said 
that no one had been around the company on Tuesday to retract the statement. O'Leary was traveling on 
Wednesday and Thursday, and it wasn't until a quarterly board meeting in Milan on Thursday morning when the the 
company thought to broach the subject. <nl/> But Ryanair wasn't entirely absent in the age of social media and 
constant communication. The story was perpetuated by other media outlets that did, ostensibly, ask Ryanair for 
comment -- and got it. The BBC reported[4] that a Ryanair spokesperson told BBC that long-haul flights were 
"dependent on attaining viable long-haul aircraft and we estimate that's four to five years away." <nl/> Airline 
industry analyst Gerald Khoo was not very surprised at the news that on plans for transatlantic flights existed -- he 
had been skeptical of the airline's statement from the outside. 'It is a concept that has been talked about for a very 
long time with very little progress. There is clarity for investors,' Khoo told the Financial Times. <nl/> O'Leary did not 
rule out the possibility of transatlantic flights altogether, however. He said the company would still pursue the 
project, but that Ryanair's board could never have approved it because any transatlantic project would involve 
creating 
a 
separate 
company.<nl/> 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/4822a29e-c995-11e4-b2ef-
00144feab7de.html#axzz3UrdOBAgh [ 2]:            http://www.investegate.co.uk/ryanair-holdings-plc/rns/ryanair-
statement-19-march-2015--dublin/201503191644569571H/ [ 3]:            http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/0e28a1e4-
ce66-11e4-86fc-00144feab7de.html#axzz3UrdOBAgh [ 4]:            http://www.bbc.com/news/business-31975456 
Sorry, Bargain Hunters: No Ryanair Across The Atlantic
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
End of Document
European Stocks Seen Flat-to-higher
European Stocks Seen Flat-to-higher
RTT News (United States)
March 20, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 571 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are poised to open flat to slightly higher on Friday as investors await fresh 
triggers to sustain recent sharp gains. While the odds of a June hike have faded, the FOMC statement and the 
change in wordings failed to clear up market confusion about timing of rate rise.
Oil prices rebounded slightly from overnight losses as the dollar weakened in the wake of hesitant signals from the 
Fed. Gold prices remain flat near two-week high amid the reduced threat of higher rates. Copper eased after rising 
the most in six weeks yesterday on news from Indonesia that production has been halted at Freeport-McMoRan 
Inc's copper mine.
Asian stocks are mixed following a lackluster lead from Wall Street overnight. China's Shanghai Composite index is 
up nearly a percent as speculation intensified that the government will unveil additional stimulus measures to 
support the property market.
Japan's Nikkei index rose 0.4 percent while Australian shares also finished higher after a shaky start, led by a late 
rally in banks. The markets elsewhere in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and South Korea are subdued.
The U.S. economic calendar remains light today after mostly weak data yesterday.
Closer home, survey figures released by Knight Frank and Markit Economics showed that majority of households in 
the U.K. perceive that the value of their houses increased in March after some moderation in the previous month. 
The house price sentiment index rose to 57.5 from 56.5 in February.
European leaders have yet to unlock the last tranche of EUR 240 billion bailout aid to Greece. Following marathon 
talks between Greek PM Alexis Tsipras, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other European leaders in 
Brussels, Merkel said the Greek government will take full responsibility for the reforms and submit a list of reforms 
in the coming days to secure the additional bailout funds required to prevent bankruptcy.
In corporate news, Dutch consumer electronics company Koninklijke Philips NV has unveiled plans to separate its 
lighting business through an initial public offering in the first half of 2016.
Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe's largest discount airline, said that it has no plans to operate transatlantic flights.
Evotec AG has signed a definitive agreement with French drug maker Sanofi for a major multi-component strategic 
alliance over the next five years.
European Stocks Seen Flat-to-higher
An asthma treatment co-developed by GlaxoSmithKline and Theravance has been found safe and effective by a 
FDA review panel in treating patients aged 18 years and older.
The European markets ended Thursday's session on a mixed note as continued weakness in oil prices and 
concerns over Greece's debt crisis offset positive market reaction to the Federal Reserve's dovish statement. While 
the German DAX slipped 0.2 percent, France's CAC 40 edged up 0.1 percent and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 rose 0.3 
percent.
U.S. stocks ended a lackluster session mixed on Thursday as a stronger dollar pulled down commodity prices and a 
slew of lackluster economic reports pointed to slowing momentum in the world's largest economy. Investors were 
worried about possible volatility across asset classes as the Fed raises interest rates in coming months. While the 
tech-heavy Nasdaq edged up 0.2 percent, the Dow slid 0.7 percent and the S&P 500 eased half a percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa Pilot Strike Grounds Most Long-Haul Flights
Lufthansa Pilot Strike Grounds Most Long-Haul Flights
International Business Times News
March 20, 2015 Friday 12:13 AM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 584 words
Body
Mar 19, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> (Reuters) - 
A pilots' strike grounded more than half of Lufthansa's (LHAG.DE[1]) lucrative long-haul flights on Thursday, the 
latest action to pile pressure on management in a protracted row over early retirement benefits and cost cuts.<nl/> 
Lufthansa is trying to cut costs to levels nearer those of its rivals as it is squeezed by budget carriers Ryanair 
(RYA.I[2]) and easyJet (EZJ.L[3]) on European routes and by airlines such as Turkish (THYAO.IS[4]) and Emirates 
[EMIRA.UL] on long-haul flights.<nl/>
 Including Thursday's strike, pilots have walked out 13 times since last April, affecting almost one million 
passengers. Other Lufthansa employees are starting to worry the row could damage the business for good.<nl/> 
"We fortunately have very loyal customers, but if this continues in the long run and we aren't able to offer the 
reliability we need, then it could become a problem for our customers," Peter Gerber, chief executive of Lufthansa 
Cargo, told Reuters.<nl/> Lufthansa Cargo said all its freight-only flights would operate on Thursday, but the strike 
would affect the freight it carries in the holds of long-haul passenger planes.<nl/> Lufthansa cancelled 84 of its 
planned 153 long-haul flights for Thursday, affecting 18,000 passengers, a spokesman said.<nl/> Pilots' union 
Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) is extending the strike to short- and medium-haul Lufthansa flights on Friday and said it 
would strike again on Saturday on long-haul and cargo flights.<nl/> Lufthansa said it was cancelling 700 short- and 
medium-haul flights on Friday, equivalent to about half its scheduled flights, while another 90 were being cancelled 
because of a strike by Italian air traffic controllers.<nl/> It said it would still be able to fly about a third of its 
scheduled flights on Saturday, but said the additional strike represented a new escalation of the conflict, which it 
feared was having a long-term impact on the reputation of the company.<nl/> Pilot strikes cost Lufthansa more than 
200 million euros ($213 million) in lost operating profit last year. Experience so far shows that bookings drop sharply 
after a strike is announced, stay low for a couple of days and then recover fairly quickly, a Lufthansa spokeswoman 
said.<nl/> However, continuing strikes could force corporate travel managers to push travelers onto other airlines, 
especially as Lufthansa mainly serves transfer passengers who could just as easily fly via hubs in London, 
Amsterdam or the Gulf, independent aviation consultant John Strickland said.<nl/> "The only winners are 
Lufthansa's competitors, whether long-haul or short-haul," Strickland said, adding that it was still crucial for 
Lufthansa management to push through structural changes to keep up with rivals.<nl/> The row involves early 
retirement benefits that VC wants to keep but which Lufthansa wants to change for new starters.<nl/> The pilots 
also want Lufthansa to enter joint mediation on other outstanding issues, such as pay and bringing costs down on 
flights to tourist destinations. Lufthansa has rejected the demand.<nl/> ($1 = 0.9384 euros)<nl/> [ 1]: 
http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/overview?symbol=LHAG.DE 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/overview?symbol=RYA.I 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Lufthansa Pilot Strike Grounds Most Long-Haul Flights
http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/overview?symbol=EZJ.L 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/overview?symbol=THYAO.IS 
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair says transatlantic statement was a mistake Travel & leisure
Ryanair says transatlantic statement was a mistake; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
March 20, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 25
Length: 393 words
Byline: Jane Wild and Peggy Hollinger
Body
Ryanair admitted yesterday that it had made a mistake in stating that its board had approved plans to start a 
transatlantic airline.
Michael O'Leary , the Irish airline's outspoken chief executive, told the Financial Times that Ryanair had "f***** up". 
"It was a miscommunication," he said.
The U-turn came after the FT reported on Monday Ryanair's board had approved plans for a transatlantic airline, 
quoting a company statement.
"The board of Ryanair, like any Plc, have approved the business plans for future growth, including transatlantic. We 
are talking to manufacturers about long-haul aircraft but can't comment further on this," Ryanair was quoted as 
saying in the FT article.
Several media organisations followed up the article, and Mr O'Leary said he was surprised the story had "such 
legs".
Mr O'Leary said that nobody had been around at Ryanair on Tuesday to retract the company statement issued to 
the FT because it was St Patrick's day.
Ryanair says transatlantic statement was a mistake Travel & leisure
On Wednesday and yesterday he had been travelling and it was not until yesterday morning when he had a 
quarterly board meeting in Milan that the subject arose.
In a statement to the stock exchange yesterday, Ryanair said that its board had not approved the project after all.
"In the light of recent press coverage, the board of Ryanair Holdings Plc wishes to clarify that it has not considered 
or approved any transatlantic project and does not intend to do so," Ryanair said.
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said he had been sceptical about Ryanair's earlier statement and was not 
surprised at the U-turn. "It is a concept that has been talked about for a very long time with very little progress. 
There is clarity for investors," he added.
Mr O'Leary has talked for years about launching a transatlantic airline offering cheap fares, but admitted the project 
is dependent on striking a deal with an aircraft manufacturer for long-haul jets.
Airbus and Boeing have notched up a lot of orders for their new generation of fuel-efficient wide-body jets, which 
means Ryanair could have to wait many years for such aircraft if it placed an order with one of them.
Yesterday, Mr O'Leary confirmed Ryanair wanted to pursue the project, and was in talks with aircraft makers. He 
said it would have been impossible for Ryanair's board to approve the project because the transatlantic airline 
would involve a separate company.
Load-Date: March 19, 2015
End of Document
Cautious optimism surrounds national recovery
Cautious optimism surrounds national recovery
Financial Times (London, England)
March 20, 2015 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 201 words
Byline: Tony Barber
Body
Good news is gushing out of Spain these days like water from a Seville fountain. The economy is expanding at its 
fastest rate in seven years, the government predicts half a million new jobs this year and Ryanair plans to fly to and 
from Castellón airport - the unused, EUR150m facility near Valencia that was a symbol of wasteful expenditure in 
Spain's pre-crisis years.
Researchers also say they have found, under a Madrid convent, the remains of Miguel de Cervantes, Spain's most 
revered literary figure.
If only Greece could boast similar successes - a healing economy, a society recovering from the euro crisis and the 
discovery of Homer's skull.
Without wanting to turn a sprinkler on the parade, caution is in order.
Spanish politics gives the impression of a once-in-a-generation structural change. But it is not clear the next 
government will have the mandate to press on with the required measures - more liberalisation of the economy, 
judicial reform and a settlement of the Catalan problem.
It is also striking that voters seem in no mood to reward Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy for reviving Spain's economy 
- although they do not seem in a mood to turn to the opposition Socialists either. Tony Barber
Cautious optimism surrounds national recovery
Load-Date: March 19, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair abandons transatlantic plan IN BRIEF
Ryanair abandons transatlantic plan; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
March 20, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 113 words
Body
Irish budget airline Ryanair yesterday said it had no plans to operate transatlantic flights, just days after it said its 
board had approved the measure. In a statement, Ryanair said it "has not considered or approved any transatlantic 
project and does not intend to do so". On Monday, Ryanair had said its board approved a plan to operate budget 
flights to the US within five years. Ryanair first aired the plans in 2008. Currently, the transatlantic route is 
dominated by British Airways and American Airlines. Oslo-based low-cost airline Norwegian Air Shuttle began a 
service to the US in 2013, but recently blamed the costs of its expansion for its first loss in eight years.
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
End of Document
Lufthansa pilot strike drags on IN BRIEF
Lufthansa pilot strike drags on; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
March 20, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 77 words
Body
A pilots strike grounded more than half of Lufthansa's lucrative long-haul flights yesterday, the latest action to 
pressure top execs in a protracted row over early retire-ment benefits and cost cuts. Lufthansa is trying to cut costs 
to levels nearer those of its rivals as it is squeezed by budget carriers Ryanair and EASYJET on European routes 
and airlines such as Turkish and Emirates on long-haul flights. It was the second of three strikes planned this week.
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
End of Document
Thousands stranded as Lufthansa strike grounds flights
Thousands stranded as Lufthansa strike grounds flights
Associated Press Financial Wire
March 19, 2015 Thursday 4:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 326 words
Byline: By DAVID RISING, Associated Press
Dateline: BERLIN 
Body
BERLIN (AP) - Thousands of international travelers were stranded Thursday as a strike by Lufthansa pilots was 
extended to long-haul flights, and Germany's largest airline said it was preparing for even more cancellations on 
Friday.
After cancelling 84 of 153 of its long-haul flights on Thursday, affecting 18,000 passengers, Lufthansa said another 
790 flights would have to be called off Friday as the Vereinigung Cockpit union shifted focus again to short- and 
medium-haul runs.
The airline said 90 of Friday's cancellations would be due to a separate labor issue in Italy, where air traffic 
controllers were to go on strike. The two strikes on Friday were expected to affect some 94,000 of its passengers, 
the airline said, though long-haul flights would return to normal operations.
Lufthansa apologized to its passengers for the inconvenience. It noted subsidiaries Germanwings, Eurowings, Air 
Dolomiti, Swiss, Austrian Airlines, and Brussels Airlines flights would be operating as normal, meaning that overall 
the Lufthansa group would be operating some three quarters of its 3,000 daily flights on Friday.
Already, some 80,000 passengers were affected in the first day of the strike Wednesday when some 750 short- and 
medium-haul flights were canceled.
The union has hit various Lufthansa units with around a dozen short-term walkouts over recent months. The dispute 
centers on the airline's plans to cut transition payments for pilots wanting to retire early, which the union wants to 
see maintained.
Lufthansa and other traditional national carriers have been trying to find savings, as they are being increasingly 
squeezed by European budget carriers such as Ryanair and EasyJet as well as major Gulf airlines like Emirates, 
Etihad and Qatar Airways.
The German government is alongside France pressing the European Union to demand fair competition with the 
Gulf airlines, which are accused of receiving billions in states subsidies from their home states.
Thousands stranded as Lufthansa strike grounds flights
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Will Not Offer Transatlantic Flights After All
Ryanair Will Not Offer Transatlantic Flights After All
RTT News (United States)
March 19, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 254 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe's largest discount airline, said Thursday that it has no plans to operate 
transatlantic flights.
"In the light of recent press coverage, the Board of Ryanair Holdings Plc wishes to clarify that it has not considered 
or approved any transatlantic project and does not intend to do so," the Swords, Ireland-based company said in a 
statement.
The volte-face came just three days after Ryanair said it plans to launch cheap transatlantic flights to as many as 14 
U.S. cities from Europe in four to five years' time, subject to acquisition of viable long-haul aircraft.
"The board of Ryanair, like any PLC, has approved the business plans for future growth, including transatlantic," the 
company said on March 16. "We are talking to manufacturers about long-haul aircraft but can't comment further on 
this. European consumers want lower cost travel to the USA and the same for Americans coming to Europe. We 
see it as a logical development in the European market."
"We would like to offer low-cost flights between 12 to 14 European cities and 12 to 14 U.S. cities. The business plan 
is there but it's dependent on attaining viable long-haul aircraft and we estimate that's four to five years away."
Founded in 1985, Ryanair has a fleet of more than 300 new Boeing 737-800 aircraft and operates more than 1,600 
scheduled short-haul flights per day serving about 189 airports mainly in Europe.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 19, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launch 'Midweek Madness'; Ryanair launch ...
Ryanair launch 'Midweek Madness'; Ryanair launch ...
Business World (Digest)
March 19, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 180 words
Highlight: Ryainair has today announced that it will be launching a 'Midweek Madness' sale across its entire 
network, with 20% off all flights on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, from 14th April to 28th May, as part of its 
ongoing 30th birthday celebrations.
Body
Ryainair has today announced that it will be launching a 'Midweek Madness' sale across its entire network, with 
20% off all flights on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, from 14th April to 28th May, as part of its ongoing 30th 
birthday celebrations.
The sale runs on the Ryanair.com website from 15.00hrs on Thursday, 19th March until 24.00hrs on Monday 23rd 
March, and applies to all flights booked for travel on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from 14th April to 28th 
May, on over 1,600 routes, connecting 190 airports in 30 countries across Europe and North Africa.
Ryainair's Robin Kiely said, "As part of our ongoing 30th birthday celebrations, we're launching a Midweek Madness 
sale, with 20% off every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday flight, from 14th April to 28th May, when booked 
before Tuesday (24 Mar) - making Europe's lowest fares even lower. Customers should log on to the Ryanair.com 
website today and choose a summer break on one of our 1,600 low fare routes - but they need to be quick as this 
amazing sale ends at 24.00hrs on Monday."
For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: March 24, 2015
End of Document
Another Strike Hits German Air Carrier
Another Strike Hits German Air Carrier
International Business Times News
March 18, 2015 Wednesday 4:15 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 450 words
Byline: Cole Stangler
Body
Mar 18, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Pilots at 
Lufthansa, Germany's flagship air carrier, are on strike over proposed cuts in early retirement benefits and other 
cost-saving measures. 
The work stoppage, which began Wednesday and is expected to continue Thursday, has grounded hundreds of 
flights across Europe.<nl/> Wednesday's strike hit short- and medium-haul flights, while Thursday's job action was 
scheduled to target long-haul and cargo flights. Lufthansa canceled about 750 flights Wednesday, Reuters[1] 
reported. The cancellations, according to Deutsche Welle[2], affected about 80,000 passengers on domestic and 
European flights.<nl/> As it stands, Lufthansa pilots can retire at 55 and receive up to 60 percent of their pay until 
their regular pension kicks in a decade later, Deutsche Welle[3] reports. The airline wants to increase the age at 
which pilots can opt for early retirement. For months now, Lufthansa and the union Vereinigung Cockpit, which also 
represents engineers, have failed to reach a resolution.<nl/> "Management maintains its position of worsening 
conditions for young pilots through the abolition of [the current retirement system]. This is not acceptable," said a 
statement [4]from the union, translated from German.<nl/> Pilots have also expressed concerns over Lufthansa's 
plans to expand its low-cost operations[5], as the carrier seeks to compete with popular, low-budget airlines like 
Ryanair and easyJet.<nl/> "It's very very important for Lufthansa to bring their costs down to a level at which they 
can continue to compete,' a private equity analyst told Reuters.<nl/> Labor struggles are increasingly familiar to 
Lufthansa. Last year, nearly a dozen [6]strikes cost the company around $250 million[7]. Air France-KLM has also 
faced walkouts in recent months.<nl/> [ 1]: http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/03/18/us-lufthansa-strikes-
idUSKBN0ME0H320150318 [ 2]:            http://www.dw.de/pilots-strike-forces-lufthansa-to-cancel-hundreds-of-
flights-more-disruptions-on-the-way/a-18322281 [ 3]:            http://www.dw.de/lufthansa-pilots-extend-strike-to-long-
haul-flights/a-18321915 [ 4]:            http://www.vcockpit.de/presse/pressemitteilungen/detailansicht/news/basta-
ansagen-in-der-tarifpolitik-nicht-hilfreich-ankuendigung-weiterer-arbeitskaempfe-der-pi.html [ 5]:            
http://centreforaviation.com/analysis/lufthansas-planned-new-lower-cost-long-haul-airline-must-avoid-legacy-issues-
192010 [ 6]:            http://www.dw.de/german-pilots-announce-yet-another-lufthansa-strike/a-18106943 [ 7]:            
http://www.thelocal.de/20150318/pilots-strike-grounds-750-lufthansa-flights 
Load-Date: March 18, 2015
Another Strike Hits German Air Carrier
End of Document
European Stocks Seen Steady Ahead Of Fed Decision
European Stocks Seen Steady Ahead Of Fed Decision
RTT News (United States)
March 18, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 632 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are set for a positive open on Wednesday as investors look ahead to a key 
Federal Reserve meeting later today that could set the stage for the first U.S. interest rate hike since 2006.
Looking past the dollar's strength, most economists expect the Fed to drop its "patient" language form the policy 
statement, paving the way for a rate hike in June or September. The FOMC statement as well as Fed Chair Janet 
Yellen's comments at the press conference will be scrutinized for any shift in tone, especially in light of the recent 
mixed economic indicators.
On the U.S. earnings front, Oracle Corp. reported flat quarterly results, while Adobe Systems posted first-quarter 
results that beat analyst estimates across the board.
Closer home, minutes of Bank of England's March policy meeting are due to be published today. Besides, investors 
await U.K. employment data and Eurozone trade figures for further clues to the region's economic outlook. British 
finance minister George Osborne will present the annual U.K. budget statement later today against a backdrop of a 
strengthening economic recovery.
In news out of Greece, the debt-laden country has frustrated its main creditors on Tuesday by refusing to update 
euro zone peers on its reform progress at a scheduled teleconference, media reports suggest. Asian stocks are 
trading mixed and the dollar held steady, while crude prices extended losses on industry data showing a build in 
crude oil stocks last week. It is feared that a possible deal over Iran's nuclear program could lead to the easing of 
sanctions that in turn would flood world markets with more oil.
The safe-have Japanese yen held steady against the dollar after official figures showed Japanese exports rose 
more than forecast in February. Chinese shares are rallying on stimulus hopes after a report showed China's 
average new home prices fell at the fastest pace on record in February from a year earlier. Elsewhere, data out of 
South Korea showed that the country's jobless rate hit a five-year high in February.
In domestic corporate news, Ireland's budget airline Ryanair said it would launch cheap transatlantic flights to as 
many as 14 U.S. cities from Europe in four to five years' time, subject to acquisition of viable long-haul aircraft.
Dragon Oil Plc confirmed that it had been approached by Dubai's Emirates National Oil Company, its largest 
shareholder, regarding a possible offer for its shares that it does not already own.
European Stocks Seen Steady Ahead Of Fed Decision
Reinsurer Swiss Re said it would propose the previously announced share buyback of up to 1.0 billion francs at the 
next annual general meeting.
Lufthansa's pilot union Vereinigung Cockpit has called for a strike Wednesday and Thursday over a months-long 
row over retirement benefits.
The European markets turned in a mixed performance on Tuesday after data showed German investor confidence 
rose by less than expected in March and Eurozone employment growth slowed in the fourth quarter. The 
eurozone's inflation rate has been confirmed at minus 0.3 percent in February, up from minus 0.6 percent in 
January, a sign that deflationary pressures may be easing. The German DAX dropped 1.5 percent and France's 
CAC 40 shed 0.6 percent, while the FTSE 100 of the U.K. advanced half a percent.
U.S. stocks ended Tuesday's choppy session mixed after the prior day's rally. Economic reports painted a mixed 
picture of the economy, with housing starts slumping the most in four years in February due to fierce winter 
weather, while an increase in building permits was driven by applications for multifamily units. While the tech-heavy 
Nasdaq rose 0.2 percent, the Dow slid 0.7 percent and the S&P 500 eased 0.3 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 18, 2015
End of Document
EasyJet gains as Ryanair threat recedes London
EasyJet gains as Ryanair threat recedes; London
Financial Times (London, England)
March 18, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 21
Length: 397 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
An upbeat briefing from chief executive Carolyn McCall meant easyJet was a gainer yesterday.
In a presentation to Barclays sales team, Ms McCall played down fears about Ryanair's rapid expansion and said 
UK leisure demand was offsetting cost pressures from the weak euro.
"An easing competitive environment, strong UK demand trends, and Gatwick self-help benefits all suggest to us 
easyJet could surprise on pricing this summer," said Barclays.
A year has passed since easyJet took over Flybe's slots at London Gatwick, which boosted its summer capacity by 
15 per cent. Optimising those routes should improve yields this summer, when Ryanair would be running at peak 
utilisation and so be less of a threat, Barclays argued.
EasyJet rose 3.3 per cent to £17.92, outpacing a subdued wider market that lifted the FTSE 100 by 0.5 per cent, or 
33.53 points, to 6,837.61.
Takeover speculation helped Randgold Resources gain 1 per cent to £46.72, with the African miner said to be a 
target for GoldCorp of Canada.
GoldCorp is focused exclusively on the Americas and with a market value of £10bn is more than twice the size of 
Randgold, whose projects are in Mali, Ivory Coast and the Democratic Republic of Congo. While Randgold shares 
EasyJet gains as Ryanair threat recedes London
have dropped 40 per cent since mid-2012 in tandem with gold's sell-off, they still remain the biggest FTSE All-Share 
gainer of the century so far.
Platinum miner Lonmin gained 7.8 per cent to 119.7p on a Citigroup upgrade to "buy".
Premier Oil led the North Sea explorers higher, up 17.2 per cent to 140.9p, on press reports that today's Budget 
will cut corporation tax and improve incentives for exploration.
Given explorers have tax losses to offset against future income, a lower tax rate "would have a negligible positive 
impact", said Deutsche.
Turkmenistan-focused Dragon Oil rose 12.5 per cent to 602p after saying it had received a takeover approach from 
ENOC, its majority shareholder.
GlaxoSmithKline edged 0.9 per cent higher at £15.92 after documents released by the US health regulator 
suggested its Breo asthma inhaler may be approved for use by adults, but not by children, at a panel scheduled for 
tomorrow. SkyePharma , which licenses the inhaler delivery technology to GSK, lost 0.8 per cent to 325p.
Babcock  rose 2.4 per cent to 956p even after CHC Group, a key competitor of its Avincis unit, said oil and gas 
industry customers had cut spending.
Load-Date: March 17, 2015
End of Document
EasyJet makes gains after upbeat briefing from chief executive London
EasyJet makes gains after upbeat briefing from chief executive; London
Financial Times (London, England)
March 18, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 29
Length: 490 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
An upbeat briefing from chief executive Carolyn McCall meant easyJet was a gainer yesterday.
In a presentation to Barclays sales team, Ms McCall played down fears about Ryanair's rapid expansion and said 
UK leisure demand was offsetting cost pressures from the weak euro.
"An easing competitive environment, strong UK demand trends, and Gatwick self-help benefits all suggest to us 
easyJet could surprise on pricing this summer," said Barclays.
A year has passed since easyJet took over Flybe's slots at London Gatwick, which boosted its summer capacity by 
15 per cent. Optimising those routes should improve yields this summer, when Ryanair would be running at peak 
utilisation and so be less of a threat, Barclays argued.
EasyJet rose 3.3 per cent to £17.92, outpacing a subdued wider market that lifted the FTSE 100 by 0.5 per cent, or 
33.53 points, to 6,837.61.
Takeover speculation helped Randgold Resources gain 1 per cent to £46.72, with the African miner said to be a 
target for GoldCorp of Canada.
GoldCorp is focused exclusively on the Americas and with a market value of £10bn is more than twice the size of 
Randgold, whose projects are in Mali, Ivory Coast and Democratic Republic of Congo. While Randgold shares have 
EasyJet makes gains after upbeat briefing from chief executive London
dropped 40 per cent since mid-2012 in tandem with gold's sell-off, they still remain the biggest FTSE All-Share 
gainer of the century so far.
Platinum miner Lonmin gained 7.8 per cent to 119.7p on a Citigroup upgrade to "buy".
Citi argued that the overhang of Glencore's pending stake distribution among its own shareholders had meant that, 
even rebasing for lower metals prices, Lonmin had fallen below a 145p fair value. The group had been well 
managed for the past three years so platinum's long-term recovery should be enough to take the pressure off cash 
generation, the broker added.
Premier Oil led the North Sea explorers higher, up 17.2 per cent to 140.9p, on press reports that today's Budget 
will cut corporation tax and improve incentives for exploration.
Given explorers have tax losses to offset against future income, a lower tax rate "would have a negligible positive 
impact", said Deutsche. Premier's $2.8bn of losses meant it would not pay tax until after 2020, it forecast.
Turkmenistan-focused Dragon Oil rose 12.5 per cent to 602p after saying it had received a takeover approach from 
ENOC, its majority shareholder.
GlaxoSmithKline edged 0.9 per cent higher at £15.92 after documents released by the US health regulator 
suggested its Breo asthma inhaler may be approved for use by adults, but not by children, at a panel scheduled for 
tomorrow. SkyePharma , which licenses the inhaler delivery technology to GSK, lost 0.8 per cent to 325p.
Babcock  rose 2.4 per cent to 956p even after CHC Group, a key competitor of its Avincis helicopter services unit, 
said oil and gas industry customers had cut spending significantly. Babcock's long-term contracts should make its 
revenue more resilient, said Stifel.
Load-Date: March 17, 2015
End of Document
We need a second wave of the consumer revolution to restore faith in capitalism
We need a second wave of the consumer revolution to restore faith in 
capitalism
City A.M.
March 18, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 26
Length: 800 words
Byline: DOMINIC RAAB
Body
TODAY, the chancellor presents his last Budget before the General Election. With limited room for tax giveaways, 
and a need to show that the Tories are on the side of the "little guy", it's time for the second wave of the British 
competition revolution - to arm consumers to take on big business.
Ed Miliband's Labour Party can be expected to lead those baying for bankers' blood. But that's an unsavoury thirst 
that will never be quenched. Over the long term, restoring faith in capitalism - and big business - requires more 
consumer power.
Those making the case for the free market must remember that deregulation in the 1990s was no ivory tower 
exercise. It boosted the raw purchasing power of the average customer - the London cabbie, or a teacher from 
Newcastle. Opening up European air travel meant they could fly EasyJet or Ryanair to places like Nice 83 per cent 
cheaper. Breaking up BT's monopoly over international calls meant they could call a cousin in Australia at a 
fraccityam.
tion of the tariff. Cracking down on price-fixing meant they could buy their son a replica football T-shirt at a 15 per 
cent discount. Whether it was purchasing the latest Tom Clancy thriller from Waterstones or a flu remedy at Boots, 
these pro-consumer capitalist reforms saved them pounds and pence.
We need a second wave of the consumer revolution. And it should be a Conservative theme tune at the election. 
It's no coincidence that some of big business's worst excesses take place in uncompetitive markets. The "Big 6" 
energy firms still control over 90 per cent of the market, so we need to encourage challengers like Ovo Energy to 
break their chokehold. One way is to level the playing field, by requiring price comparison websites offering gas and 
We need a second wave of the consumer revolution to restore faith in capitalism
electricity deals to remove filter buttons that mask the most competitive offers in favour of suppliers paying a 
commission. That alone would save customers around £20 on an average bill, while incentivising smaller firms to 
innovate and compete for their business.
Likewise, even the energy regulator Ofgem admits bills are so confusing that it is impossible to say whether people 
are being over-charged. Energy suppliers should be required to adopt comparable pricing - like petrol pump 
displays - so customers can compare deals more easily, and avoid being ripped off amid the complexity of the 
tariffs on offer.
Next, take the banks. The government introduced a duty to let customers change banks within seven days. 
Customer switching has inched up, but is still only forecast to hit 5 per cent by 2023. That is half the level of 
customer switching you would see in other healthy, competitive markets. The Big 4 banks retain a vice-like grip on 
customer choice. Their share of the current account market has stayed almost static over the last three years, 
currently at 77 per cent. Meanwhile, the numbers wanting to switch accounts - if it were easier - has risen. The 
answer is to introduce portable bank account numbers, that can be transferred easily with all their direct debits and 
standing orders. The Centre for Economics and Business Research estimates it could double the rate of switching - 
forcing banks to offer more competitive rates of interest.
At the same time, we need to cut the bureaucratic barriers to entry that deter innovative smaller banks, like Metro 
Bank, competing for our custom. Of course, the big boys will always object to any threat to their monopoly. A senior 
banking executive recently told me the evidence on portable bank accounts from Australia and Sweden showed it 
did nothing to improve customer choice. When I checked, Australia had never introduced the measure, and Sweden 
only tried it for corporate clients, not consumers.
As well as current accounts, mortgage deals could be made more competitive by requiring clarity about compulsory 
and contingent fees, along with a clearer statement of total charges payable throughout the mortgage deal period. 
Given mortgage bills absorb around one in every five pounds of a family's budget, consumer magazine Which? 
argues that there is substantial scope for savings.
Finally, price comparison website www.Moneysupermarket.com points out that auto-renewal of car insurance 
policies - without customer consent - stifles competition, costing customers up to £1.3bn each year. Introducing 
greater transparency - a clear display of policy changes, along with next year's fee compared to the previous year - 
and a requirement of consent to renew would encourage motorists to shop around. That would save them over 
£100 per year on a typical policy.
It may not quite leave voters "feeling epic", as Moneysupermarket's adverts boast, but strengthening consumer 
clout will leave more money in their pockets than bashing big business.
Dominic Raab is Conservative MP for Esher and Walton.
Load-Date: March 18, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Will Fly To 14 U.S. Cities From Europe
Ryanair Will Fly To 14 U.S. Cities From Europe
RTT News (United States)
March 17, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 258 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair, Europe's largest discount airline, plans to launch cheap transatlantic flights to as many as 14 
U.S. cities from Europe in four to five years' time, subject to acquisition of viable long-haul aircraft.
"The board of Ryanair, like any PLC, has approved the business plans for future growth, including transatlantic," 
said the company in a statement. "We are talking to manufacturers about long-haul aircraft but can't comment 
further on this. European consumers want lower cost travel to the USA and the same for Americans coming to 
Europe. We see it as a logical development in the European market."
"We would like to offer low-cost flights between 12 to 14 European cities and 12 to 14 U.S. cities. The business plan 
is there but it's dependent on attaining viable long-haul aircraft and we estimate that's four to five years away."
Ryanair did not name the U.S. cities it plans to connect, but reports said the list includes Boston, New York, 
Chicago, and Miami.
Although some subsidized promotional fares would cost £10, other one-way tickets would be priced at £99 or more, 
and the Irish carrier would fill up to half its aircraft with more expensive premium seats, Ryanair's head of marketing 
Kenny Jacobs was reported as saying.
Founded in 1985, Ryanair has a fleet of more than 300 new Boeing 737-800 aircraft and operates more than 1,600 
scheduled short-haul flights per day serving about 189 airports mainly in Europe.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 18, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair gets serious about transatlantic flights with one-way tickets from £10
Ryanair gets serious about transatlantic flights with one-way tickets from 
£10
Financial Times (London, England)
March 17, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 13
Length: 338 words
Byline: Jane Wild in London
Body
London to New York for a tenner anyone?
The board of Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost carrier has after years of talk approved plans to start a transatlantic 
airline, with some promotional one-way tickets expected to cost as little as £10.
Ryanair, which has spent the past 18 months revamping its image after admitting its no-frills approach could "piss 
people off" , is studying plans to fly between about a dozen European and US cities. The service could start in four 
to five years' time if the Irish carrier can reach a deal to buy long-haul aircraft, from either Airbus or Boeing.
Though some subsidised fares would cost £10, other one-way tickets would be priced at £99 or more, and the 
airline would fill up to half its jets with more expensive premium seats, said Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's head of 
marketing.
Michael O'Leary , Ryanair's outspoken chief executive, has talked for many years about establishing a transatlantic 
airline offering cheap fares, and the disclosure that the board has approved outline plans suggests that the 
company is now serious about proceeding.
Ryanair said: "The board of Ryanair, like any plc, has approved the business plans for future growth, including 
transatlantic. We are talking to manufacturers about long-haul aircraft but cannot comment further on this."
Ryanair gets serious about transatlantic flights with one-way tickets from £10
No airline has managed to turn a profit running a transatlantic service offering rock-bottom fares. Sir Freddie Laker's 
SkyTrain went bust trying during the 1980s.
Norwegian Air Shuttle, the Oslo-based low-cost airline, began a transatlantic service in 2013 - a one-way ticket from 
London to New York was pitched from £149 . Norwegian , which slipped to a NKr1.1bn ($133m) loss in 2014 partly 
because of the costs of expansion, is using Boeing's new, more fuel efficient long-haul Dreamliner jet.
Boeing has a large number of pending orders for the aircraft so the Irish airline would have to wait several years for 
any aircraft to be delivered. Airbus also has a big order backlog for its A350 jet, which competes with the 
Dreamliner .
Load-Date: March 16, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair 's US dream a step closer as board backs £10 transatlantic plan
Ryanair's US dream a step closer as board backs £10 transatlantic plan
Financial Times (London, England)
March 17, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 17
Length: 337 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Body
London to New York for a tenner anyone?
The board of Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost carrier has after years of talk approved plans to start a transatlantic 
airline, with some promotional one-way tickets expected to cost as little as £10.
Ryanair, which has spent the past 18 months revamping its image after admitting its no-frills approach could "piss 
people off" , is studying plans to fly between about a dozen European and US cities. The service could start in four 
to five years' time if the Irish carrier can reach a deal to buy long-haul aircraft, from either Airbus or Boeing.
Though some subsidised fares would cost £10, other one-way tickets would be priced at £99 or more, and the 
airline would fill up to half its jets with more expensive premium seats, said Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's head of 
marketing.
Michael O'Leary , Ryanair's chief executive, has talked for many years about establishing a transatlantic airline 
offering cheap fares, and the disclosure that the board has approved outline plans suggests that the company is 
now serious about proceeding.
Ryanair said: "The board of Ryanair, like any plc, has approved the business plans for future growth, including 
transatlantic. We are talking to manufacturers about long-haul aircraft but cannot comment further on this."
Ryanair 's US dream a step closer as board backs £10 transatlantic plan
No airline has managed to turn a profit running a transatlantic service offering rock-bottom fares. Sir Freddie Laker's 
SkyTrain went bust trying during the 1980s.
Norwegian Air Shuttle, the Oslo-based low-cost airline, began a transatlantic service in 2013 - a one-way ticket from 
London to New York was pitched from £149 . Norwegian , which slipped to a NKr1.1bn ($133m) loss in 2014 partly 
because of the costs of expansion, is using Boeing's new, more fuel efficient long-haul Dreamliner jet.
Boeing has a large number of pending orders for the aircraft so the Irish airline would have to wait several years for 
any aircraft to be delivered. Airbus also has a big order backlog for its A350 jet, which competes with the 
Dreamliner .
Load-Date: March 16, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair charters towards launch of first flights to United States
Ryanair charters towards launch of first flights to United States
City A.M.
March 17, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 5
Length: 196 words
Byline: EMMETT SCHLENZ
Body
IRISH airline Ryanair has its eyes set on America and will begin pursuing transatlantic possibilities, the company 
reported yesterday.
The flight service known for its "no-frills, low-cost" currently operates in 30 countries in Europe and North Africa, 
and is looking to expand to 12 to 14 cities in the United States. "European consumers want lower cost travel to the 
USA and the same for Americans coming to Europe," Ryanair said.
Although some subsidised promotional fares would cost £10, other one-way tickets would be priced at £99 or more, 
and there would be more expensive premium seats, said Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's head of marketing.
Not everything has been highflying for Ryanair lately, however. In February, the Court of Appeal upheld the 2013 
decision of the Competition Commission (now the Competition and Markets Authority) to demand Ryanair reduce 
its 29.8 per cent holding in competitor Aer Lingus to five per cent.
Current business endeavours involve "talking to manufacturers about long-haul aircraft", says Ryanair. These 
aircraft are crucial to transatlantic flights, the airline says, and Ryanair anticipates their acquisition to be "four to five 
years away".
Load-Date: March 17, 2015
End of Document
Ryainair launches winter schedule Ryainair launch...
Ryainair launches winter schedule; Ryainair launch...
Business World (Digest)
March 16, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 246 words
Highlight: Ryainair has today launched its Winter 2015 schedule with more routes, additional flights and improved 
schedules. They have celebrated the launch of its Winter 2015 schedule by releasing 100,000 seats for sale across 
its European network, at prices from E
Body
Ryainair has today launched its Winter 2015 schedule with more routes, additional flights and improved schedules. 
They have celebrated the launch of its Winter 2015 schedule by releasing 100,000 seats for sale across its 
European network, at prices from E19.99. These low fare seats are available for booking until midnight Thurs (19 
Mar).
Customers can choose from over 1,600 routes across its European network, while enjoying allocated seating, a free 
second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding passes and Ryanair's 
Family Extra and Business Plus services, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, business and leisure 
travellers.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair is pleased to launch our biggest ever Winter 
schedule, with more flights, routes and destinations, as we continue to grow Europe's biggest route network.
As part of our Always Getting Better programme and Customer Charter, we have promised to release our 
schedules early and our customers can now plan and book their summer and winter 2015 holidays - all on the 
lowest fares. Ryanair will continue to connect Europe's key centres of business, with more flights and improved 
schedules to and from major cities, including Berlin, Edinburgh, London, Madrid, Milan, Rome and Warsaw, making 
Ryanair the ideal choice for business customers, while our Family Extra Product is the ideal choice for families." For 
more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: March 20, 2015
Ryainair launches winter schedule Ryainair launch...
End of Document
Tasty deals at Broderick's Bakery flies into airlines
Tasty deals at Broderick's Bakery flies into airlines
Sunday Business Post
March 15, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 346 words
Body
Turnover at the Dublin baking firm Broderick's is set to soar to EUR 9 million this year on the back of deals to 
supply its products to airlines including Emirates, Delta, Cityjet, Ryanair, United, Virgin Atlantic and British Airways.
Broderick's was set up in 2010 by brothers Barry and Bernard Broderick. The pair had gained experience of the 
food sector through their mother Ina, who runs a successful bakery business supplying cakes and desserts to high-
end cafés and restaurants. Broderick's current turnover is around EUR 6 million.
   We wanted to apply the same principles to a retail business that Mum had applied to her wholesale business: 
using really good quality ingredients like Belgian chocolate and real butter to produce great things to eat,   said 
Bernard Broderick.
The pair gained attention early on for the quirky branding of their products, which played on their relationship as 
brothers - the packaging described them as    two brothers who almost literally never stop fighting  , and their 
products had names like Tiff Toff in the Tuffen and Gooey Oozy Chocolatey Solid Brick.
But, according to Barry Broderick, it wasn't an immediate hit.
   The branding didn't get a great reaction at the start, to be honest. We had made a conscious decision to do 
something totally different to what was already out there, but initially it was a bit too different for people,   he said.
   It was accepted earlier in our export markets than it was at home, it was a big hit in France from the start, for 
example.  
Broderick's now exports to 25 countries including Britain, Kuwait and Holland. Turnover is up 50 per cent year on 
year, and the firm is employing 80 full and part-time staff.
The airline deals came about as a result of an initial order from Aer Lingus, according to Bernard Broderick.    They 
have given us great support, and really opened doors for us in terms of the airline sector,   he said.
Tasty deals at Broderick's Bakery flies into airlines
   Anyone who crosses the Atlantic with Aer Lingus gets a co-branded Broderick's flapjack instead of the traditional 
scone, so it's wonderful exposure for the brand.  
Load-Date: March 18, 2015
End of Document
Lighting strikes to increase stake at troubled Trinity Mirror DIRECTORS' DEALS
Lighting strikes to increase stake at troubled Trinity Mirror; DIRECTORS' 
DEALS
Financial Times (London, England)
March 14, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - MONEY; Pg. 8
Length: 387 words
Byline: Michael Tindale
Body
Jane Lighting has been on the board of Trinity Mirror for seven years, but has bought shares only once, in 
November 2012. That trade revealed a canny sense of timing; a year after the closure of the News of the World, 
and with the scale of the phone hacking scandal still becoming apparent, the shares had been in decline for almost 
three years. But she was buying into momentum following a summer turnround and despite the ongoing scandal, 
she was ahead by almost 150 per cent on that trade last Wednesday when she invested a similar sum to boost her 
stake by 40 per cent.
Ms Lighting spent four years on the board at Paddy Power and made an equally well-timed trade at the Irish 
bookmaker in 2012, before leaving 18 months ago. She was succeeded by Michael Cawley, who had spent most of 
his career at Ryanair and remains on the board at the airline. He did not buy a stake at the time - Paddy Power 
shares were riding high after four years of breathless gains - but his wait-and-see approach paid off. The stock 
spent a year in decline but the gains soon returned and with the prospect of a bumper week at Cheltenham, 
cantered to a 75p high last week. Mr Cawley bought into the gains on that day and was joined on the board by 
newcomer Gary McCann, who bought for the first time.
Long-term investors in Paddy Power should have no reason for bouts of envy, but the performance of 4 Imprint 
Group puts even their returns in the shade. Shares in the promotional product marketer reached £10 for the first 
time this week, giving finance director Gillian Davies a 240 per cent profit on shares she bought in 2012. She has 
Lighting strikes to increase stake at troubled Trinity Mirror DIRECTORS' DEALS
banked gains since, though her stake has increased through options awards. She sold 3 per cent of her holding on 
Tuesday along with fellow executive director Andrew Scull, who sold a larger stake.
There were conflicting signals at Capital & Regional after an investment fund in which Louis Norval has an interest 
sold 3.5m shares. However, he clawed back some of the stake, buying through another beneficial company. With 
the disposal of some German interests and improved footfall in its shopping centres, the shares touched 56p for the 
first time this month, their value doubling since 2012. Chairman John Clare bought into the shares, joined by two 
executive directors.
Michael Tindale, Directorsdeals.com
Load-Date: March 14, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces Cologne winter 2015/16 schedule
Ryanair announces Cologne winter 2015/16 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 13, 2015 Friday 12:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 197 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will launch seven new routes, including a four times daily service 
to/from Berlin, as part of its Cologne winter 2015/16 schedule.
Body
Ryanair's Cologne Winter 2015/16 schedule will deliver: 1 to 3 based aircraft ($300m investment); 7 new routes: 
Berlin, Copenhagen, Gran Canaria, Milan, Porto, Valencia & Warsaw; 17 routes in total; extra flights - London (17 x 
pw), Palma (4 x pw), Rome (2 x daily), Tenerife (3 x pw); 129 weekly flights; 2m customers p.a.; and 2,000 "on site" 
jobs. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "German consumers and visitors already choose Ryanair for our low fares, 
industry leading customer service and great route choice. Now they can also book 17 Cologne routes on our 
improved website and great new app, carry a free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new 
Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, as 
Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares. "Germany is a significant growth market for 
Ryanair and we will continue to connect key German cities with Europe's major centres of business, with new 
Cologne routes to Berlin, Copenhagen, Milan and Warsaw, and extra flights to and from London and Rome, making 
Ryanair the ideal choice for both business and leisure customers."
Load-Date: March 19, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to be 1st airline to use Spanish 'ghost airport'
Ryanair to be 1st airline to use Spanish 'ghost airport'
Associated Press Financial Wire
March 11, 2015 Wednesday 12:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 135 words
Dateline: MADRID 
Body
MADRID (AP) - Ryanair will become the first airline to run flights to and from one of Spain's biggest "ghost airports" 
in eastern Castellon, long a symbol of the wasteful spending that preceded the country's severe economic crisis.
Jose Espartero, the Irish low-cost company's sales and marketing director in Spain, said Wednesday that Ryanair 
would begin three weekly flights from London's Stansted airport to Castellon and two from the English city of Bristol 
in September.
The Castellon airport cost 150 million euros ($160 million) to build. It was finished in 2011 but only had its first flight 
on Jan. 15.
The tourist region is already served by airports in Valencia and Reus.
Spain's handful of "ghost airports" were among the many huge projects during a property-fueled boom prior to the 
2008 real-estate crash.
Load-Date: March 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to open new base in Berlin
Ryanair to open new base in Berlin
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 11, 2015 Wednesday 5:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 262 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced that it will open a new base in Berlin, its 73rd base in total, on October 
27, 2015.
Body
Ryanair's base in Berlin will deliver: an investment of $500m dollars; 5 based aircraft; 16 new routes to Alicante, 
Athens, Barcelona, Bari, Bologna, Bratislava, Brussels, Glasgow, Madrid, Malaga, Palermo, Palma, Riga, Rome C, 
Venice & Valencia; 22 routes in total; 191 weekly flights; extra flights to/from Dublin (9 x weekly), London Stansted 
(4 x daily) & Milan (2 x daily); will grow Ryanair's Berlin traffic to 2.6m customers p.a.; and support 2,600 "on-site" 
jobs. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs said: "German consumers and visitors already choose 
Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. 
Now they can also book 22 Berlin routes on our improved website and great new app, carry a free small 2nd carry-
on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their personal 
electronic devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest 
fares. "Germany is a significant growth market for Ryanair and as we announce our 6th German base at Berlin, we 
will continue to connect key German cities with Europe's major centres of business. Indeed, we are launching new 
Berlin routes to Athens, Barcelona, Brussels, Glasgow, Madrid and Rome, as well increasing flights to and from 
Dublin, London and Milan, making Ryanair the ideal choice for both business and leisure customers. "To celebrate 
our new Berlin base, as well as our 30th birthday, we are releasing 100,000 seats on sale from 19.99 for travel in 
March and April."
Load-Date: March 17, 2015
End of Document
When the City has a break to enjoy a flutter at Cheltenham
When the City has a break to enjoy a flutter at Cheltenham
City A.M.
March 11, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4,5
Length: 240 words
Byline: ADAM HIGNETT
Body
A RECORD-breaking crowd of more than 63,000 people descended on Cheltenham yesterday for the opening of 
the famous horse racing festival.
Several notable individuals from the City made the two-hour journey, including renowned founder of Collins Stewart 
Andy Stewart and ex-Barclays banker Rich Ricci, both of whom have horses racing throughout the week.
Other notable people in attendance included Irish businessman and horse owner JP McManus, Mark and Zara 
Tindall and restaurateur Mark Hix who was cooking up a £90, sevencourse-meal at The Park hotel, a 10-minute 
walk from the racecourse.
McManus will not be the only Irish horse owner attending, with RyanAir boss Michael O'Leary, who is currently 
leading McManus in the Irish owners' championship, expected to be there.
Punters are estimated to wager up to £200m at the event, with the hot favourites for day one being the Rich Ricci 
horses.
It is estimated the bookies saved £50m in payouts after Ricci's last horse Annie Power fell at the final hurdle. 
Several London-based firms were sponsoring races at the event, including Neptune Investment Management, 
recruitment agency Pertemps and insurance broker JLT.
Cheltenham offers the largest amount of prize money of any jumps festival in the world, with £3.9m available to 
participants, and just over £1m of that handed out on Gold Cup day.
About 120,000 bottles of wine were imbibed at the event last year, a record set to be surpassed in 2015.
When the City has a break to enjoy a flutter at Cheltenham
Graphic
 
And they're off… The Cheltenham Festival had a racing start yesterday, with punters descending on the famous 
racecourse from all over the British Isles
Load-Date: March 11, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Launches Stansted Winter 2015 Schedule; Announces Low Fare Seats
Ryanair Launches Stansted Winter 2015 Schedule; Announces Low Fare 
Seats
RTT News (United States)
March 11, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 99 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced it has launched Stansted winter 2015 schedule with two new 
routes to Castellon and Ponta Delgada, and extra flights on 23 other routes, including Berlin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, 
Madrid, Milan, Prague, Rome and Warsaw.
Ryanair also announced the release of 100,000 seats for sale across its European network, at prices from 19.99 
pounds for travel in April and May. The company said the low fare seats are available for booking until midnight, 12 
March.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 11, 2015
End of Document
NUI Galway excell at annual Global Business Competition NUI Galway exce...
NUI Galway excell at annual Global Business Competition; NUI Galway 
exce...
Business World (Digest)
March 10, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 272 words
Highlight: NUI Galway were today celebrating winning the Chartered Financial Analysts Ireland 'Global Investment 
Research Challenge' title.
Body
NUI Galway were today celebrating winning the Chartered Financial Analysts Ireland 'Global Investment Research 
Challenge' title.
The Global Investment Research Challenge sees students from Irish universities compete for most professional 
analysis of a quoted Irish company. It is an annual global competition that provides university students with hands-
on mentoring and intensive training in financial analysis. It offers students a unique hands-on opportunity to learn 
from industry experts and to compete with peers from the world's top finance programmes.
In front of a panel of leading financial services professionals, a student team from NUI Galway retained the 
prestigious Chartered Financial Analysts Ireland 'Global Investment Research Challenge' title. Having won the 
competition in 2014 analysing Ryanair, this year's team took home the trophy with their analysis of Kingspan.
The NUI Galway team comprised of four students from the Master of Economic Science International Finance 
programme, Adrian Bushell from Tuam, Co. Galway, Fergal Brennan and Niall Deasy, both from Ennis, Co. Clare, 
and Sarunas Ramanauskas from Galway City and Bachelor of Commerce student, Adam Mollen from Tullamore, 
Co. Offaly. The NUI Galway team now proceeds to the European Middle-East Africa (EMEA) finals in Amsterdam in 
early April. NUI Galway Academic Mentor and Lecturer in Financial Economics, Cian Twomey said: "It's a fabulous 
achievement to have retained the title. It speaks volumes as to the high calibre of students taking our programmes 
at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels." (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: March 13, 2015
NUI Galway excell at annual Global Business Competition NUI Galway exce...
End of Document
Empathy is not for wimps, it is for survival; Guest Column
Empathy is not for wimps, it is for survival; Guest Column
Financial Times (London, England)
March 10, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - EMPLOYMENT: GLOBAL BEST PRACTICE; Pg. 10
Length: 611 words
Byline: Belinda Parmar
Body
In May last year, Ryanair reported its first full-year decline in profits in half a decade. Just six months later, in 
November, the budget airline's bottom line looked in rude health once more: first-half profits for the year are up by a 
third and full-year profit looks set to grow by a similar proportion.
What happened? The airline that makes its money by turning its aircraft around faster than anyone else in the 
business did the same with its attitude.
Sensing a growing disenchantment among customers, Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary decided to stop insulting 
them.
Instead, the airline introduced some empathy into its product mix. "If I'd known being nicer to customers was going 
to work so well, I would have started many years ago," Mr O'Leary said when the results were released.
Empathy remains something chief executives dismiss as a gimmick for the boffins on Twitter.
As the chief executive of one British bank admitted to me, most of his employees think empathy is for wimps: 
"Empathy reeks of vulnerability. Nobody wants to appear weak."
That is a grave misconception. By helping companies understand their customers - and their needs - better, 
empathy is actually a source of strength.
Worries about weakness are not the only thing hampering empathy's inclusion in the corporate business model.
Empathy is not for wimps, it is for survival; Guest Column
Even relatively enlightened chief executives assume they simply cannot do much about empathy. They think it is an 
innate and intangible quality that cannot be taught nor measured. They are wrong.
Empathy is not a god-given gift. It is more like a muscle. Leave it inactive and it will atrophy; exercise it and watch it 
develop into a corporate skill.
Moreover, this growth can be measured. The Lady Geek Empathy Index , which uses a methodology involving 
employee and customer perspectives as well as social media interactions, took a year to develop and now ranks 
companies by their "empathy quotient".
Empathy requires a company to work on three qualities: emotional connectivity; a sense of reassurance; and an 
aura of authenticity. These three qualities need to be projected across three channels: internally, within a 
company's workforce; externally, with clients and customers; and, finally in the public eye, through a company's use 
of social media.
LinkedIn, which topped the Empathy Index, provides a good example of how empathy works. It combines all three 
elements across the three channels.
Internally, its monthly "Indays" allow employees to invest in the community and inject the company with innovative 
ideas. Meanwhile, it deals with its clients and customers in the public eye, deftly addressing negative feedback on 
Twitter.
Ironically, LinkedIn scored far higher in this category than Twitter itself.
At the other end of the spectrum is Ryanair, which limps into the top 100 thanks to its recent change of tactics. 
There is not much emotional connection in being called "stupid", as Mr O'Leary has referred to his passengers in 
the past, nor in being told that if you forget to print a boarding pass, the airline will not help, not to mention the lack 
of authenticity in hidden booking charges. As Mr O'Leary admitted, there is no need for the company to be 
"unnecessarily pissing people off".
Social media have generated an increasingly transparent world. Customers publicly air their grievances - or simply 
ask for assistance - and expect replies as sensitive as they are quick. Companies can no longer get away simply 
with providing goods and services; they are expected to live up to their branding with humanity and authenticity. In 
this new world, no business survives without empathy.
 Belinda Parmar is chief executive of Lady Geek, a consultancy
Load-Date: March 9, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair To Double Cologne Traffic, Launches New Berlin Route - Quick Facts
Ryanair To Double Cologne Traffic, Launches New Berlin Route - Quick 
Facts
RTT News (United States)
March 10, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 103 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced that it will double its Cologne traffic as it launched 7 new routes, 
including a 4 x daily service to Berlin and 17 routes in total, as part of its Cologne Winter 2015/16 schedule, which 
will deliver 2 million customers p.a., and support 2,000 local jobs.
Ryanair celebrated the launch of its Cologne Winter 2015/16 schedule, as well as its 30th birthday, by 
releasing 100,000 seats for sale across its European network, at prices from ?19.99 for travel in April and May.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 10, 2015
End of Document
Boeing wins order from Ryanair for three Next-Generation 737-800 airplanes
Boeing wins order from Ryanair for three Next-Generation 737-800 airplanes
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 10, 2015 Tuesday 6:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: CIVIL PROJECTS
Length: 191 words
Highlight: The Boeing Company has won an order from Ryanair Ltd., an airline company, for three Next-
Generation 737-800 airplanes.
Body
The order, previously unidentified on the Boeing Orders & Deliveries website, is valued at $280 million at current list 
prices. With this order the Irish low-cost carrier now has unfilled orders for 174 Next-Generation 737-800s and 100 
737 MAX 200s. "We are pleased to announce the purchase of three more Boeing Next-Generation 737-800 aircraft, 
which will be delivered in early 2016, bringing our total recent orders to 183 737-800s, in addition to further orders 
for up to 200 'gamechanger' Boeing 737 MAX 200 aircraft," said Michael O'Leary, CEO of Ryanair. "These Boeing 
aircraft orders will allow us to expand our fleet to over 520 aircraft and to increase our traffic to 160 million 
customers per annum by 2024, creating some 10,000 new positions for pilots, cabin crew and engineers, as we 
continue to grow tourism, routes and jobs across Europe." "As the biggest customer in the world for the Next-
Generation 737-800, Ryanair fully understands the economic value of this airplane, building its business on the 
737's superb efficiencies and unmatched reliability," said Todd Nelp, vice president of European Sales, Boeing 
Commercial Airplanes.
Load-Date: March 16, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair February passenger traffic increases 29%
Ryanair February passenger traffic increases 29%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 9, 2015 Monday 5:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 177 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of February 2015 was 5.8 million 
passengers, an increase of 29%, compared to 4.5 million passengers for February 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of February 2015 was 89%, an increase of 11 percentage points, compared to 78% for 
February 2014. Ryanair chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 29% to 5.8m customers 
in February, while our load factor rose by 11% points to 89%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger forward 
booking strategy and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" (AGB) customer programme, which 
continues to deliver better than expected load factors on our significantly expanded winter schedule. "With our new 
routes, increased frequencies and Business Plus service, Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the 
lowest fares in every market we operate in. Customers can look forward to further service enhancements 
throughout 2015, as we roll out the 2nd year of our AGB programme, which includes a new website and app, new 
cabin interiors, new crew uniforms and inflight menus, reduced airport fees, and great new digital features such as 
'hold the fare', destination content and fare comparison services."
Load-Date: March 15, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
March 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 604 words
Body
**Green Reit joins FTSE property index**
Property investment company Green Reit announced last week that it had been included in a major international 
real estate index.
From March 23, the company will be included in the FTSE European Public Real Estate Association/NAREIT 
Global Real Estate Index Series. According to a statement, Green Reit successfully satisfied the required eligibility 
criteria during the index's latest quarterly review.
Green Reit's Stephen Vernon said the company was    very pleased to be the first Irish Reit to be added to the 
EPRA index  .
In a broker note issued last week, Davy said that the news, while expected, was a    positive development for Green 
Reit and reflects the company's transition from cash box at the time of its IPO in July 2013 to a stabilised real estate 
operating company  .
..............................
**Rates remain at record lows**
The European Central Bank has kept interest rates unchanged at record lows. The ECB's governing council 
decided last week to leave rates unchanged at 0.05 per cent, as predicted by economists.
Tomorrow marks the start of ECB president Mario Draghi's EUR 1.1 billion bond-buying plan, with the ECB hopeful 
about the likely impact of the quantitative easing stimulus programme.
   The latest economic data and, particularly, survey evidence available up to February point to some further 
improvements in economic activity at the beginning of this year,   Draghi said last Thursday.
Boardroom Briefing
   Looking ahead, we expect the economic recovery to broaden and strengthen gradually.  
..............................
**Passenger numbers take off at Ryanair**
Ryanair has reported a 29 per cent increase in passenger traffic.
The airline's traffic was up by almost a third in February to 5.8 million passengers compared to the same month last 
year. Ryanair's rolling annual traffic to the end of February grew 9 per cent to 89.1 million customers.
Load factor, the ratio used by airlines to compare the number of seats sold to the number of seats offered for sale, 
increased 11 per cent to 89 per cent.
Meanwhile passenger numbers dipped at rival airline Aer Lingus.
The airline said it carried 627,000 passengers in February, down 2 per cent from 640,000 in the same month last 
year. However, the airline said its load factor rose by 1.9 percentage points to 69.2 per cent.
..............................
**Difficult year for FBD**
Insurer FBD has reported a pre-tax loss of EUR 4.53 million for 2014, compared with a profit of EUR 51.5 million in 
2013 as the worst weather in the group's history and a deterioration in claims hit profitability.
FBD's chief executive Andrew Langford said 2014 was    a very difficult year   for both FBD and the insurance 
industry in general as the claims environment deteriorated significantly and    at a speed which exceeded 
expectations  . Net claims incurred by the company rose by nearly 30 per cent to EUR 260.9 million, bringing FBD's 
loss ratio to 86 per cent from 67.9 per cent.
   FBD will continue to take all appropriate action to respond to trading conditions and return the group to 
profitability,   the company said, adding that it expects to report 2015 operating earnings per share of between 20 
and 40 cent.
..............................
**The week ahead**
Another busy week coming up. Dalata will publish its full year results on Tuesday (see p3), and Grafton Group will 
also report that day.
On Wednesday, Permanent TSB's full year results are due for publication Thursday will see Origin Enterprises 
publish half year results, while Independent News and Media will finish off the week with its full-year results on 
Friday.
Load-Date: March 9, 2015
End of Document
The Fragile Future Of Malaysia Airlines
The Fragile Future Of Malaysia Airlines
International Business Times News
March 7, 2015 Saturday 5:49 AM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1363 words
Byline: Ismat Sarah Mangla
Body
Mar 06, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> After a year 
marked by the catastrophic losses of two jetliners and 537 lives, Malaysia Airlines is on life support itself. The 
mysterious and still-unexplained disappearance of its Flight 370 over the Indian Ocean a year ago and the downing 
of its Flight 17 over Ukraine about four months later were crippling blows to a national carrier that was already 
hemorrhaging money. The airline lost some $1.5 billion during the five years before MH370 went missing -- and 
that's despite several previous restructuring plans.<nl/>
 'A lot of people define Malaysia Airlines' issues around MH370, but they've had structural issues for years,' said 
John Thomas, head of the aviation practice at L.E.K. Consulting, a global management-consulting firm. 'And the 
whole Asian market has become very competitive.' Indeed, low-cost carriers such as AirAsia and Lion Air have 
been expanding at a rapid clip, capturing more and more passengers in the region's growing middle class. And, at 
the other end of the market, regional full-service rivals such as Cathay Pacific Airways and Singapore Airlines boast 
sterling reputations that are tough to beat. <nl/> While the loss of MH17 was not Malaysia Airlines' fault -- and it's 
impossible to say at this point whether the loss of MH370 was, either -- aviation history has proven that the toxic 
combination of fatal crashes and longstanding financial problems equals certain death for an airline. (See Pan Am 
and TWA, which failed in 1991 and 2001, respectively, after crashes compounded other issues.) This last year has 
borne that out: Malaysia Airlines' passenger traffic was down[1] despite slashed fares, and it lost $170 million[2] 
during the third quarter of 2014, its biggest loss since 2011.<nl/> 'Malaysia's turnaround is as difficult as trying to 
run a marathon with molasses stuck on your running shoes. It can be done, but it will take a lot of effort,' said Henry 
Harteveldt, an airline-industry analyst at the Atmosphere Research Group.<nl/> But Malaysia Airlines is not ready to 
give up. Khazanah, the Malaysian sovereign wealth fund that controls the airline and took it private last year, 
unveiled a five-year, $1.7 billion restructuring plan in November. Reforms included the hiring of a new CEO, 
eliminating unprofitable routes and shrinking a bloated workforce. With these and other changes, Khazanah expects 
to return to profitability by 2017 and relist the airline by 2020.<nl/> Whether it will succeed is a hotly debated issue 
among industry watchers. Saj Ahmad, chief aviation analyst at StrategicAero Research, is not optimistic. 'Even 
before MH370, the airline had been languishing. It was losing money hand over fist,' Ahmad said. 'And I haven't 
seen much in the way of Malaysia Airlines really demonstrating how it's going to support these so-called 
changes.'<nl/> Of course, Khazanah would disagree. The fund released a quarterly progress report[3] on its 
recovery plan Monday, adding the airline would emerge as a very different company by July 1 of this year. The 
progress report detailed the airline's plan to cut its fleet capacity by 10 percent and eliminate routes to Europe and 
Middle East, in an effort to more finely focus on its Asia routes. To accommodate the changes, Malaysia Airlines 
The Fragile Future Of Malaysia Airlines
would 'realign' its fleet accordingly. Khazanah also planned to eliminate 6,000 jobs in a workforce of 20,000 and 
was renegotiating a 25-year-long catering deal that many analysts have criticized because of its costs and 
unfavorable terms.<nl/> The company also highlighted what it hopes will be its ace in the hole, the appointment of 
CEO Christoph Mueller, who took the reins March 1. Mueller comes from Ireland's Aer Lingus, where he reversed 
the fortunes of that struggling airline by shifting to more profitable routes, cutting costs and staving off the 
competition from budget carriers such as Ryanair. <nl/> But Ahmad indicated it's not Mueller's talents that will 
ultimately prove whether he can be successful, but the climate surrounding him. 'Will they let him do what he wants 
to do?' asked Ahmad, citing a corporate culture that is resistant to real change. <nl/> Thomas agreed: 'Mueller has 
very successfully turned Aer Lingus around. But because of the sovereign importance of Malaysia Airlines, what 
degrees of freedom will he have to make tough cuts?'<nl/> Ahmad added that the airline should be taking 
advantage of currently low fuel prices to hedge its fuel costs for the future, a common practice among airlines, in 
which they lock in fuel prices for the future at a rate set today. 'They are running around with some of the oldest 
airplanes in Asia, yet I have seen no evidence that they are locking in low fuel prices now,' said Ahmad. 'If they're 
not going to capitalize now, when oil prices are down, when are they going to do it?' (Older airplanes burn more fuel 
per passenger than do newer models.)<nl/> But Skift aviation editor Marisa Garcia said Malaysia Airlines is taking 
steps to offload unnecessary costs, such as eliminating elements of its fleet that aren't serving the airline efficiently. 
Case in point: the carrier's six Airbus A380 superjumbo jets that aren't flying at full capacity. 'The A380 is a very 
difficult aircraft to manage and carry, and unless you're using it to its full capacity, it's too expensive.'<nl/> That's 
why initial rumblings of a deal[4] for Malaysia Airlines to lease two of its A380s to Turkish Airlines would be a 
positive step, although nothing has been finalized. If it happens, it could significantly reduce costs on the airline's 
balance sheet. 'Malaysia has a lot of opportunities like that to help them get back on their feet,' Garcia said.<nl/> Of 
course, cutting costs and gaining efficiency can only do so much if perception of the brand isn't positive, which is 
uniquely important in aviation as it's linked to safety. If an airline is perceived as unsafe, people will avoid flying with 
it. Shashank Nigam, CEO of the aviation marketing-strategy firm SimpliFlying, said the way the airline manages its 
brand during a period of change is critical.<nl/> 'While they restructure the airline and business operations, the 
brand cannot be ignored,' Nigam said. 'Malaysia Airlines will have to cut costs behind-the-scenes, but portray the 
airline as still open to the world, still offering a quality product. They need to depict themselves on being focused on 
what they do best rather than just cutting.'<nl/> To do so, Malaysia Airlines should take its cues from Air New 
Zealand and Virgin Atlantic, which both experienced turbulence, dramatically cut their international route networks 
to restructure costs and emerged profitable. 'Virgin framed the changes as a position of strength -- they said we're 
focusing on fewer destinations, but we're doing a better job with them. So Malaysia Airlines needs to aim to be both 
profitable and well regarded. Of course, MAS has a larger gap to bridge,' Nigam said.<nl/> As for whether it can 
encourage spooked flyers to reconsider Malaysia Airlines, Nigam said the carrier should leverage its connected 
travelers to do the evangelizing for it. 'The brand shouldn't toot its own horn, but get its passengers to talk -- on 
social media, for example -- about why they're flying Malaysia Airlines. Brand affinity is something that needs to be 
built organically.'<nl/> There's no doubt the task is a Herculean one. But some analysts won't write Malaysia 
Airlines off just yet. With the right moves, it can become healthy once again.<nl/> 'It's not impossible,' Skift's Garcia 
said. 
'Nothing 
is 
impossible 
in 
aviation 
-- 
that's 
why 
we 
make 
big 
things 
fly.'<nl/> 
[ 
1]: 
http://centreforaviation.com/analysis/malaysia-airlines-1h2015-outlook-more-losses-as-capacity-levels-are-
maintained-prior-to-transition-201123 [ 2]:            http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/11/28/malaysia-airline-results-
idUSL3N0TI34A20141128 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.khazanah.com/docs/150302%20Second%20MAS%20Recovery%20Plan%20Quarterly%20Progress%2
0Update.pdf [ 4]:            http://businessweekme.com/Bloomberg/newsmid/190/newsid/450 
Load-Date: March 7, 2015
End of Document
Empathy is not for wimps, it is for survival Guest Column
Empathy is not for wimps, it is for survival; Guest Column
Financial Times (London, England)
March 5, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - EMPLOYMENT: GLOBAL BEST PRACTICE; Pg. 11
Length: 611 words
Byline: Belinda Parmar
Body
In May last year, Ryanair reported its first full-year decline in profits in half a decade. Just six months later, in 
November, the budget airline's bottom line looked in rude health once more: first-half profits for the year are up by a 
third and full-year profit looks set to grow by a similar proportion.
What happened? The airline that makes its money by turning its aircraft around faster than anyone else in the 
business did the same with its attitude.
Sensing a growing disenchantment among customers, Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary decided to stop insulting 
them.
Instead, the airline introduced some empathy into its product mix. "If I'd known being nicer to customers was going 
to work so well, I would have started many years ago," Mr O'Leary said when the results were released.
Empathy remains something chief executives dismiss as a gimmick for the boffins on Twitter.
As the chief executive of one British bank admitted to me, most of his employees think empathy is for wimps: 
"Empathy reeks of vulnerability. Nobody wants to appear weak."
That is a grave misconception. By helping companies understand their customers - and their needs - better, 
empathy is actually a source of strength.
Worries about weakness are not the only thing hampering empathy's inclusion in the corporate business model.
Empathy is not for wimps, it is for survival Guest Column
Even relatively enlightened chief executives assume they simply cannot do much about empathy. They think it is an 
innate and intangible quality that cannot be taught nor measured. They are wrong.
Empathy is not a god-given gift. It is more like a muscle. Leave it inactive and it will atrophy; exercise it and watch it 
develop into a corporate skill.
Moreover, this growth can be measured. The Lady Geek Empathy Index , which uses a methodology involving 
employee and customer perspectives as well as social media interactions, took a year to develop and now ranks 
companies by their "empathy quotient".
Empathy requires a company to work on three qualities: emotional connectivity; a sense of reassurance; and an 
aura of authenticity. These three qualities need to be projected across three channels: internally, within a 
company's workforce; externally, with clients and customers; and, finally in the public eye, through a company's use 
of social media.
LinkedIn, which topped the Empathy Index, provides a good example of how empathy works. It combines all three 
elements across the three channels.
Internally, its monthly "Indays" allow employees to invest in the community and inject the company with innovative 
ideas. Meanwhile, it deals with its clients and customers in the public eye, deftly addressing negative feedback on 
Twitter.
Ironically, LinkedIn scored far higher in this category than Twitter itself.
At the other end of the spectrum is Ryanair, which limps into the top 100 thanks to its recent change of tactics. 
There is not much emotional connection in being called "stupid", as Mr O'Leary has referred to his passengers in 
the past, nor in being told that if you forget to print a boarding pass, the airline will not help, not to mention the lack 
of authenticity in hidden booking charges. As Mr O'Leary admitted, there is no need for the company to be 
"unnecessarily pissing people off".
Social media have generated an increasingly transparent world. Customers publicly air their grievances - or simply 
ask for assistance - and expect replies as sensitive as they are quick. Companies can no longer get away simply 
with providing goods and services; they are expected to live up to their branding with humanity and authenticity. In 
this new world, no business survives without empathy.
 Belinda Parmar is chief executive of Lady Geek, a consultancy
Load-Date: March 4, 2015
End of Document
Pilot strike grounds Norwegian Air Shuttle Travel & leisure
Pilot strike grounds Norwegian Air Shuttle; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
March 5, 2015 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 404 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic Correspondent
Highlight: Pay dispute coincides with carrier's efforts to launch long-haul operation
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle is facing crisis after a strike by pilots grounded all of its domestic flights in Norway, Sweden 
and Denmark yesterday.
About 35,000 passengers could not fly with Europe's third-biggest low-cost airline after 650 pilots went on strike in 
an escalating dispute over pay.
The dispute is seen as a test of Norwegian as a low-cost airline based in a high-cost country, competing with 
Ryanair and easyJet, and Norway's ability to adapt to global competition.
Bjørn Kjos , Norwegian's chief executive, said: "We cannot afford to have a strike for ever. And we know that unions 
have gone on strike until companies crash and burn before.
"We are not going bankrupt tomorrow or the day after or the day after. We have NKr2.1bn [$270m] in equity."
Norwegian's shares are down 16 per cent since Friday when news of a strike broke. Yesterday, the shares were up 
0.2 per cent at NKr216.7.
The carrier, which made its first loss in eight years in 2014, is vulnerable as it tries to build a long-haul business 
between Europe and the US or Asia.
Pilot strike grounds Norwegian Air Shuttle Travel & leisure
It is mired in a dispute with US regulators and has incurred high costs from problems with the Boeing Dreamliners it 
is using on its long-haul operations.
Frode Steen, a professor at NHH business school in Bergen, said: "Kjos has challenged the way of doing airline 
business in Scandinavia. He is a tough guy. But this is a tough time, particularly when they are now in a situation 
where they have lost money and he has this long-haul show running."
The three-month dispute escalated on Saturday when 70 pilots walked out. The pilots, employed by Norwegian Air 
Norway, a subsidiary, want an agreement with the parent company.
The airline, however, wants to cut costs and is looking at the wages and benefits of Norwegian pilots relative to the 
lower rates for crews it uses in countries such as Spain and the UK.
Professor Steen said the conflict was a consequence of Norwegian trying to run simultaneously a Scandinavian-
based business targeting SAS, the flag carrier, and a more typical low-cost operation centred on other European 
countries.
The dispute has been soured further by media reports the airline could bankrupt Norwegian Air Norway and rehire 
about two-thirds of the pilots.
Mr Kjos denied this had been discussed but refused to rule out a bankruptcy if the dispute continued. He said 
Norwegian had leased some aircraft yesterday to enable certain European flights to operate.
Load-Date: March 4, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair To Open New Base At Berlin In Oct.; Offers Tickets At Low Price
Ryanair To Open New Base At Berlin In Oct.; Offers Tickets At Low Price
RTT News (United States)
March 5, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 99 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced it will open a new base at Berlin on 27th October, with 5 based 
aircraft, an investment of $500 million, and launched 16 new routes (22 in total) as part of its Berlin Winter 2015 
schedule. Ryanair said its new Berlin base ill grow Berlin traffic to 2.6 million customers p.a.
Ryanair also said, it is releasing 100,000 seats on sale from 19.99 euros for travel in March and April, to celebrate 
the new Berlin base as well as the 30th birthday.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 5, 2015
End of Document
Ailing Malaysia Airlines readies for drastic overhaul
Ailing Malaysia Airlines readies for drastic overhaul
Associated Press Financial Wire
March 4, 2015 Wednesday 8:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 909 words
Byline: By KELVIN CHAN and EILEEN NG, Associated Press
Dateline: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia 
Body
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) - After a year of calamity, Malaysia Airlines is shrinking to survive.
The disappearance of Flight 370 one year ago, combined with the downing of Flight 17 over a rebel held area of 
eastern Ukraine four months later, brought the already financially struggling flag carrier to its knees.
The government, which owned most of the airline, took 100 percent ownership and removed it from the Malaysian 
stock exchange last year. The airline is now aiming to return to profitability by 2017 with a drastic $1.7 billion 
overhaul that includes cutting nearly a third of its staff.
Key to the plan is a new CEO, Christoph Mueller, a turnaround specialist who led a successful revival of Ireland's 
Aer Lingus. His new bosses hope he'll be able to pull off a similar feat at Malaysia Airlines though analysts say 
success is far from guaranteed because of the political baggage of being a state-owned company. At least four 
other major restructurings of Malaysia Airlines since 2001 have failed.
"There's no doubt that it's got more challenges than many, because you're dealing with a company that's in a poor 
financial state, you've got the political interference, the backlash of the incidents," said John Strickland, director of 
JLS, an airline industry consulting company.
The challenge of the restructuring is compounded by rapid changes in the aviation industry in Asia, where low cost 
carriers are proliferating to serve the growing ranks of middle class consumers.
The disasters that brought Malaysia Airlines to the brink of financial collapse served to underline the weakness of it 
and other full-service carriers in the region. They face stiff competition from a wave of budget upstarts including 
Malaysia's AirAsia, Indonesia's Lion Air, Tigerair and Scoot from Singapore, and Qantas offshoot Jetstar.
Even Malaysia Airlines has its own low-cost offshoot, Firefly. Mueller may be keen to use it as a testing ground for 
new ideas, given his track record at Aer Lingus, where he responded to competition from no-frills airline Ryanair by 
mimicking as many of its practices as possible.
Ailing Malaysia Airlines readies for drastic overhaul
The changes, which blurred the distinction between Lingus and Ryanair, include shortened airplane turnaround 
times at the gate and charging for seat selection, checked bags and food and drinks.
Aer Lingus' net profit since its 2006 stock flotation has wobbled between modest profits and losses as the company 
took financial hits for strikes, shutdowns, mass cancellations and pension gap payoffs in order to avoid more 
strikes.
The result is that he's turned an airline that was near death into an attractive takeover target for Ryanair and British 
Airways parent IAG simply by getting it through a period of massive upheaval.
A similar outcome might be in store at Malaysia Airlines. Khazanah Nasional, the Malaysia sovereign investment 
fund that owns the airline, said it may consider selling some or all of its stake to private investors after relisting 
shares within a planned three to five years.
Aer Lingus and Khazanah Nasional declined interview requests for Mueller, who started his new job on Sunday.
In a quarterly update released Monday, Khazanah said the overhaul of Malaysia Airlines is on track. The airline is 
preparing to cut 6,000 of its 20,000 employees. It's also planning to expand seats on Asian routes by 5 percent but 
is reviewing European and Mideast routes with a view to ending some.
The company said it also won a temporary 25 percent reduction on its monthly catering bill as it renegotiates its 
supplier contract.
The cuts are vital to stem the losses at the airline. In its last financial result as a listed company, the airline reported 
that third quarter losses widened 53 percent from a year earlier to $170.3 million. That brought its loss in the first 
nine months of last year to $368 million.
Asian aviation experts have urged changes at the airline but say there is a risk it could shrink too much as it battles 
to compete with the low-cost crowd.
They say there's still room for legacy carriers in Asia, though they need to concentrate on routes and destinations 
where they can make money, mainly to capital cities and business and finance hubs.
"In Asia, you've still got a lot of low-income countries where price is a major factor," said Andrew Herdman, director-
general of the Association of Asia-Pacific Airlines. "It's a challenge for full-service carriers in Asia to restructure and 
be more efficient to narrow that productivity and cost gap with budget carriers."
Herdman said a "pure no-frills model is not the answer" for airlines trying to compete. The bulk of their revenue still 
comes from medium and long-haul fares and airlines need two to three classes tailored to the needs of different 
types of passengers.
An unexpected helping hand for the airline has come from the collapse in the price of oil over the past year.
Mohshin Aziz, aviation analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Securities, said the airline's jet fuel bill, which last year 
amounted to 6.3 billion ringgit ($1.7 billion), will be cut in half this year, which alone will help it return to profitability.
But he also worried it might reduce the pressure for change.
Mohshin said he sees a "zombie" future for the airline which will be "alive but barely."
"They will just be in this perpetual bureaucratic tug of war between the employees, the government and the 
management."
____
Chan reported from Hong Kong. Shawn Pogatchnik in Dublin contributed to this report.
Ailing Malaysia Airlines readies for drastic overhaul
Load-Date: March 5, 2015
End of Document
New Malaysia Airlines CEO a "battle hardened" veteran
New Malaysia Airlines CEO a "battle hardened" veteran
Associated Press Financial Wire
March 4, 2015 Wednesday 11:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 755 words
Byline: By KELVIN CHAN, AP Business Writer
Dateline: HONG KONG 
Body
HONG KONG (AP) - When the owners of embattled Malaysia Airlines went looking for a new CEO to lead its 
restructuring, they chose a German turnaround specialist known as "The Terminator" to take on what's been 
dubbed the toughest job in aviation.
Christoph Mueller, 52, comes to the post fresh from a stint reviving Ireland's Aer Lingus. He'll be the first foreigner 
to head the Malaysian state-owned company. Analysts say he's an industry veteran "battle-hardened" from his work 
carrying out corporate restructurings at other state-owned airlines, including failed Belgian carrier Sabena.
Mueller will be facing his biggest challenge yet at Malaysia Airlines. The company was pushed to the brink of 
bankruptcy by the disappearance of Flight 370 on March 8 with 239 people on board and the shooting down mere 
months later of Flight 17 over Ukraine, killing all 298 passengers and crew.
Khazanah, the sovereign investment fund that owns Malaysia Airlines, declined an interview request for Mueller, 
who started his job on Sunday. But clues about his management philosophy can be found in a video interview he 
gave to Cambridge University's business school last year.
"The first year of a restructuring is really like a war situation," Mueller told his interviewer, exuding a polite, polished 
and firm manner that is in stark contrast with the brash charisma of the bosses at his former and present discount 
rivals: Michael O'Leary of Ryanair and AirAsia's Tony Fernandes.
Mueller was dubbed "The Terminator" in Ireland because his German accent made for easy comparisons to Arnold 
Schwarzenegger in assassin robot mode as he outlined his plans to remorselessly fix Aer Lingus.
At his new job, Mueller will have work cut out for him. He has to trim a bloated workforce and money-losing routes 
while also fending off political interference at the state-owned company and battling cutthroat competition from 
budget carrier rivals. But that's not unlike situations he's faced before.
"I would say it probably is among the toughest" jobs in the industry, said John Strickland of JLS Consulting who 
believes Mueller's status as an outsider will give him an edge in shaking up the company.
New Malaysia Airlines CEO a "battle hardened" veteran
"He's worked in a number of organizations, a number of airlines and he's managed airlines that have had very 
diverse problems," said Strickland. "He's coming in fresh. He's someone battle-hardened in the airline industry. He's 
not a political appointee."
Mueller joined Aer Lingus five years ago, when passenger demand on lucrative trans Atlantic routes had 
plummeted in the wake of the global financial crisis while rising costs hobbled its competitiveness against European 
low-cost rival Ryanair. It also faced a yawning pension gap and multiple takeover attempts by Ryanair, which is now 
its biggest shareholder.
Mueller's transformation of Aer Lingus gave him the chance to show that he's got the mettle to perform major 
surgery on a previously state-owned airline without crashing it. His departure leaves the Irish carrier on a high note: 
it's become an attractive takeover target for both Ryanair and British Airways parent IAG.
Mueller started his career at Lufthansa, but went on to jobs in areas of the aviation industry typically scorned by 
executives at big carriers, including in the low-profile air cargo and competitive air charter businesses.
At Belgium's former national airline Sabena, Mueller struggled to save a company that was hemorrhaging cash and 
burdened with powerful unions that resisted job cuts. But his task was abruptly cut short by the Sept. 11, 2001 
terrorist attacks, which dealt a fatal blow that forced it into liquidation.
In his Cambridge interview, Mueller expanded on his war analogy, saying that staff attrition may be high because 
workers aren't used to the urgent tempo of typical turnarounds waged around the clock. Managers may need, for 
example, to "show up on Sunday morning at 4 o'clock at the baggage room, and really talk to people what their 
concerns are all about."
He stressed the importance of town hall meetings with frontline workers and hinted that he usually ends up making 
sweeping changes to senior management because those responsible for existing problems tend to avoid taking 
responsibility.
"My experience is it's very difficult to create a winning team from existing management," he said. "There's nowhere 
more obfuscation than in the boardroom at the beginning of a turnaround."
____
Cambridge University interview: https://vimeo.com/109234717
___
Shawn Pogatchnik in Dublin contributed to this report.
Load-Date: March 5, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Reports Purchase Of 3 More Boeing 737-800 Aircraft, Feb. Traffic Up 29%
Ryanair Reports Purchase Of 3 More Boeing 737-800 Aircraft, Feb. Traffic Up 
29%
RTT News (United States)
March 4, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 113 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) Wednesday announced the purchase of an 
additional 3 Boeing 737-800 aircraft, for delivery in early 2016, valued at $280 million at current list prices.
This brings its total order to 183 737 NGs, in addition to orders for 200 "gamechanger" Boeing MAX 200 aircraft, 
which will allow Ryanair to grow its traffic to 160 million customers per annum by 2024.
Separately, the airline said its traffic in February climbed 29 percent to 5.8 million customers, and load factor 
increased 11 percentage points to 89 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 4, 2015
End of Document
Better, surely, to subsidise employment
Better, surely, to subsidise employment
Financial Times (London, England)
March 4, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 6
Length: 145 words
Body
Sir, Professor Sir Christopher Pissarides (Letters, February 24) justifies a statutory minimum wage where an 
employer exercises monopoly power and there is therefore an absence of competition in the labour market. Such a 
situation, presumably localised, would involve a surplus of labour and an absence of employers. Surely that is 
precisely the situation where potential employers should be attracted by the low labour cost, and it is the function of 
government to bring the wages up to a minimum level through a negative income tax or similar method. 
Government may also seek to bring other employers into the region by this and other means.
Regional governments have successfully encouraged Ryanair to bring tourists into their regions by subsidising 
flights. Why not subsidise employment rather than unemployment as a minimum wage is likely to ensure?
David Clark
Luxembourg
Load-Date: March 3, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair celebrate 30 years; Ryanair celebra...
Ryanair celebrate 30 years; Ryanair celebra...
Business World (Digest)
March 3, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 189 words
Highlight: Ryanair this year celebrates 30 years and plans on implementing is a number of new initiatives this year 
to mark the milestone. This will include lower airport check in fees and a new destination content service.
Body
Ryanair this year celebrates 30 years
and plans on implementing is a number of
new initiatives this year to mark the
milestone. This will include lower
airport check in fees and a new
destination content service. Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary said, "2014/15 was a record year for Ryanair, as we 
grew our traffic to 90m customers and started to dramatically improve the customer experience through the 
introduction of allocated seating, a second free carry-on bag, our new mobile app and website and our new 
dedicated Family Extra and Business Plus services, as well as more routes to even more airports, with improved 
schedules and frequencies. We now want to celebrate our 30th birthday in 2015 by launching our new Customer 
Charter and the 2nd year of our "Always Getting Better" plan as we grow to carry 100m customers this year. We 
thank our customers for making Ryanair Europe's favourite airline and assure them that we will continue to offer 
them so much more than just the lowest fares, with the biggest route network, industry leading reliability and 
performance, and the best customer service." For more visit: www.businesworld.ie
Load-Date: March 6, 2015
End of Document
Norwegian Air faces strike over pay agreement
Norwegian Air faces strike over pay agreement
City A.M.
March 2, 2015 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 270 words
Byline: NERIJUS ADOMAITIS
Body
A STRIKE by pilots at Norwegian Air, Europe's third-biggest budget airline, led to some cancellations of domestic 
flights yesterday, but long-haul routes to the US and Asia were operating as normal, the airline said.
The strike, which started on Saturday after wage talks with the airline broke down, involves 70 pilots. The number of 
those striking could go up to 650 from Wednesday if there is no agreement, the Norwegian pilot union has warned.
"We are constantly striving to ensure that as few (passengers) as possible are affected by the strike, but it's not 
possible to predict how the situation will develop," the airline said in a statement on its website yesterday.
"Unfortunately, some departures have been affected by the strike today," it added.
The talks between the pilots' union and the airline broke down after midnight on Saturday. The two sides failed to 
agree on a new collective agreement and work conditions.
The airline said it could not meet the pilots' demand to sign a collective agreement with the parent company, 
Norwegian Air Shuttle, instead of its Norwegian subsidiary Norwegian Air Norway, which employs the pilots.
It also said it couldn't accept the demand that Norwegian employment terms apply to pilots working outside the 
country as this could reduce its competitiveness.
The strike comes after the airline reported wider-than-expected fourthquarter losses on 12 February due to its fuel 
hedging, a weaker Norwegian crown and high costs.
The Norwegian carrier has expanded rapidly in recent years, posing a threat to the dominance of Ryanair and 
EasyJet in the European lowcost market.
Norwegian Air faces strike over pay agreement
Reuters
Graphic
 
Bjorn Kjos is chief executive of budget airline Norwegian Air
Load-Date: March 2, 2015
End of Document
New Citilink boss: We are EasyJet ; Lion Air is Ryanair
New Citilink boss: We are EasyJet; Lion Air is Ryanair
AirFinance Journal
March 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,ASIA PACIFIC & AUSTRALASIA,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,LESSORS,BREAKING 
NEWS,DEALS,INDONESIA
Length: 337 words
Highlight: Newly-appointed CEO of Indonesian LCC criticises Lion Air's Chinese New Year delays.
Body
The new boss of Indonesian low-cost carrier Citilink has compared his airline's rivalry with Lion Air in the Indonesian 
market to the rivalry between European LCCs Ryanair and EasyJet.
"Lion Air is more about Ryanair," CEO and former CFO Albert Burhan told Airfinance Journal.
"They don't care about the passenger as long as they sell tickets. We are more like EasyJet and hope the 
passengers can have more comfort and then we hope that we can win the passengers' choice.
He said it was "a mess" in Indonesia when "a lot" of Lion Air flights were cancelled during the Chinese New Year 
period.
"It really gives a bad impression of Lion Air," he said. "It's a big delay and thousands and thousands of people were 
at the airport and didn't know when they could fly."
Burhan was referring to the thousands of passengers who faced delays over the Chinese New Year holiday after 
Lion Air flights were cancelled due to "foreign object damage" to aircraft.
He said that in 2014 Citilink had an on-time performance of 83-84%, adding that EasyJet treats passengers "better 
in a more respectable way".
"[At Citilink] we have allocated seats so people don't have to rush into the aircraft," he said.
Jose Fernandes, corporate director of safety and quality for Lion Group, told Airfinance Journal that Burhan's 
criticisms were "opportunism".
"We want to provide our passengers with better service and better quality," he said, explaining that the delays were 
caused by it taking five hours to get authorisation for each new flight.
"That's why we decided to start operations at midnight as a new day. If we didn't do that we would have given more 
disruption to our passengers."
New Citilink boss: We are EasyJet ; Lion Air is Ryanair
Also responding to Burhan's comments, a spokesman for Ryanair stated that it is Europe's number one airline and 
that it continues to improve the Ryanair experience for customers under its "Always Getting Better" programme.
To see all ofCitilink's recent and historic deals visit Airfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Michael.Allen@euromoneyplc.com
Photo: Flickr/Maarten Visser
Load-Date: March 30, 2015
End of Document
Analysis: Ryanair takes on the capital markets
Analysis: Ryanair takes on the capital markets
AirFinance Journal
March 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,ANALYSIS
Length: 1537 words
Byline: Dickon Harris
Highlight: Earlier today Ryanair achieved a new record with its latest â,¬850 million unsecured Eurobond. Neil 
Sorahan, the low-cost carrier's chief financial officer, tells Jack Dutton about the benefits of the airline's credit rating 
and its financings ambitions for the 380 aircraft it has on order.
Body
Earlier today Ryanair achieved a new record. The Irish low cost carrier priced its eight-yearâ,¬850million unsecured 
Eurobond at an astonishingly low coupon of 1.125%. The deal achieved midswaps of 67 basis points, smashing the 
record set by Ryanair last year with its debut 7-yearâ,¬850million Eurobond.
The most recent deal was oversubscribed by over three times. Jose Abramovici, global head of asset finance group 
at CA CIB, states the pricing was in line with Ryanair's "superior credit quality."
"This is the advantage of having a great rating and a registered EMTN programme; allowed Ryanair to quickly and 
efficiently take advantage of Euro market conditions. Coupon of 1.125% now isn't that phenomenal?" says 
Munawar Noorani, Citibank's managing director of aviation and industrials for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Last June, the carrier launched its â,¬850 million seven-year unsecured bond, which had a coupon of 1.875% for 
seven years. The bond achieved several firsts. The deal scored the hat-trick of being the lowest coupon in the 
airline sector, the lowest coupon for an Irish corporate and the joint lowest coupon for any seven year BBB+ 
Eurobond.
Neil Sorahan, Ryanair's new chief financial officer, comments on the 2014 bond. "It's got good tenor; the seven 
years that we did before was very attractive and we would want to go longer. The pricing is also very attractive. We 
would see that as a large source of financing for the next few years," he says.
"We did the â,¬850 million financing last June; our capital expenditure requirement for the coming year is â,¬650 
million, plus we have a lot of cash in the business, so predelivery payments are paid for out of our working capital. 
The bond has financed some of the deliveries in the air to date and will finance the balance of them. Now we are 
starting to meet our financial partners in the banks and leasing companies," he adds.
Ryanair likes to diversify its funding base by working with a range of different banks.
Analysis: Ryanair takes on the capital markets
"We work with a very wide group of banks as you'd expect with a company of our size. The banks that participated 
on the recent bond were Citibank, BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank, who were the bookrunners and arrangers. We 
also have a good relationship with most of the large banks that act in aviation," says Sorahan.
The Irish carrier has 50 aircraft on sale/leaseback, but Sorahan says they are likely to be handed back over the next 
few years.
"It's all boiled down to the cost of finance for us. We like the asset and we like owning the asset. It's likely that many 
ofthe sale/leasebacks, which are typically on seven- to eight-year structures, will possibly be handed back as they 
mature to our lessors. The hand-backs and the new deliveries will keep our fleet young," he says.
Sorahan adds that he has no firm thoughts on the situation at the moment, but is looking at "approximately 150 
aircraft" overall to sell and return to lessors.
Further airline consolidation
"I feel that there are a number of airlines in Europe today that should probably not be flying right now," muses 
Sorahan.
Sorahan believes the European aviation market is moving towards further consolidation. He says that favourable 
bankruptcy rules in the US have permitted much faster airline consolidation in the North American market compared 
to Europe.
"In the United States, when carriers entered Chapter 11, they restructured themselves and came out. We now have 
a scenario in the United States where there is six or seven large carriers, which account for about 80% of the 
traffic," he says.
"In Europe, we are moving towards a strategy where there should be between approximately five large carriers, 
three which would be long-haul people doing hub-and spoke operations to get people into the likes of the Frankfurt 
mains, the Schiphols, the Charles de Gaulles and London Heathrows."
Sorahan believes there would be two main point-to-point pure short-haul players,one of them being his own carrier 
Ryanair.
"Many European airlines are not profitable and haven't been for some period of time. They don't have the benefit of 
Chapter 11 when they can win and clear themselves out. In Europe, a lot of the guys that wouldn't last in the United 
States are still hanging on here because we don't have those kind of laws and rules."
Planned aircraft
The next decade promises to be a busy one for Ryanair, regardless of whether more European airlines merge. The 
Irish carrier will be expanding its fleet from 308 aircraft to 520 by the end of March 2024. It will take 380 new 
deliveries, consisting of 180 737-800 NGs and 200 737 Max 200s. The predelivery payments for the 737-800s have 
been paid for in cash, and the carrier is likely to fund the remaining balance of the deal in cash.
Much of the capital the airline funds is through an â,¬850 million ($966 million) seven-year unsecured bond that 
was issued in June last year.
As well as firming up the order for the Maxs in December, worth an estimated $11 billion at list prices, Ryanair will 
be opening a new base in Copenhagen in April. The carrier will grow by 40% over the next five years if all goes 
according to plan.
Eleven of Ryanair's 180 new 737-800s on order will be delivered by the end of March. Forty will be delivered in the 
next financial year, 50 the following year, 50 in financial year 2018 and 29 in financial year 2019. The first deliveries 
of the 200
Analysis: Ryanair takes on the capital markets
737 Max 200s will start "in winter 2019 or spring 2020". The Maxs will allow the Irish carrier to upgrade from 189 to 
197 seats. They will all deliver by the end of March 2024, when the carrier hopes to maintain its average fleet age of 
four to five years.
Sorahan says Ryanair typically takes its aircraft deliveries over the winter and spring periods so it has the maximum 
number of aircraft to fly during the summer.
Further growth
The new Copenhagen base and bases that opened in Portugal and Poland last year will help to solve one of 
Ryanair's main problems of not having had enough aircraft over the past few years. Now the aircraft are coming in, 
the carrier has more of an opportunity to grow.
"In the UK, we are the number two carrier. We are going to grow significantly in Stansted, from 13 million 
passengers to 20 million passengers over the next five years. Stansted is the only airport that hasn't suffered from 
overcapacity. We are already number one in the Spanish market but we are seeing some costs coming down and 
we are getting more opportunities to grow there," he says.
Other finance structures
Ryanair has not gone back to its shareholders for financing of aircraft since it issued its initial public offering in 
1997. The carrier often finances itself through its â,¬618 million working capital cash flow, which it uses to pay off its 
predelivery payments.
The deliveries are financed through a mixture of structures, including Ex-Im Bank finance debt and Japanese 
operating leases with call options (Jolcos). About 30 of Ryanair's aircraft are on Jolcos.
Sorahan is keen to explore other financial structures.
"The banks, as well as the leasing companies, are good at coming to us with ideas, and we have a treasury team 
who arealso equally good at that. We have to recognize that we are not only an airline but also a large corporate. 
Large corporates have access to certain forms of financing that a lot of airlines don't have access to "" the debt 
capital markets and investment grade being one such form of financing, but we are continuously looking out there 
for new ways."
He adds: "It will all boil down to what's the cheapest form of financing for us. The bond was very cheap last year. 
But we also firmly believe that you don't have all of your eggs in one basket "" we have various forms of financing 
on our balance sheet today "" from Exim financing to commercial debt to Jolcos, to sale/leaseback to the capital 
market unsecured. And of course, the greatest fall back we have is the 4.5 billion [euros] cash we have on our 
balance sheet.
Highest rated airline
One of Sorahan's highlights from the past year included receiving a BBB+ rating from Fitch and Standard & Poor's 
"" the highest credit rating received by any airline. The investment-grade ratings have given Ryanair access to the 
corporate bond markets and the unsecured debt markets. The airline had considered the possibility of enhanced 
equipment trust certificates, but the unsecured European medium term notes proved to be very attractive on an 
unsecured basis.
Why was Ryanair not given the A rating? Sorahan explains: "Ryanair was given a single-A anchor rating but 
because of various sectorial risks, we were notched down to BBB+ stable. I'm comfortable with BBB+ stable. We've 
got a large growth and capital expenditure programme, and we can very much operate the airline as we want to 
operate the airline within the boundaries of that BBB+ rating without stretching ourselves by any manner of means."
Sorahan expects this to change at some point, though.
Analysis: Ryanair takes on the capital markets
"Of course, I think one of the impediments of getting that A is the sectorial risk," he says. "It's up to us to 
differentiate ourselves as we did last year on our bond roadshow and continue to do so. And in time, inevitably we 
probably will be upgrading at some stage."
jack.dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: March 23, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair launches second unsecured Eurobond
Ryanair launches second unsecured Eurobond
AirFinance Journal
March 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 213 words
Byline: Dickon Harris
Highlight: Irish low-cost carrier hopes to repeat last year's â,¬850 million record debut.
Body
Ryanair has launched an eight-year unsecured Eurobond this morning.
The notes are expected to mature on 10 March 2023.
The deal marks Ryanair's second unsecured Eurobond transaction following its hugely successful debut 
â,¬850million, 7-year executed in June 2014.
Initial pricing chatter on the deal is around MS+80bps area, with pricing expected later today.
Citi is the active bookrunner on today's offering, as well as the billing and delivery bank.
Citi, BNP and Credit Agricole are the joint bookrunners on the transaction.
In June Ryanair priced a debut â,¬850 million seven-year unsecured bond. The deal scored the hat-trick of being 
the lowest coupon ever in the airline sector, the lowest coupon for an Irish corporate and the joint lowest coupon for 
any seven-year BBB+ Eurobond.
The Irish carrier's notes were significantly oversubscribed attracting at least â,¬6 billion worth of bids for the bond. 
The carrier decided to increase the size of the bond from over â,¬500 million to â,¬850 million.
The 2014 deal priced at midswaps +85bp and carried a coupon of 1.875%
The notes were part of Ryanair's â,¬3 billion medium-term note programme.
Citi was theglobal coordinator for last year's bondwhile BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank arethe joint bookrunners.  
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: March 23, 2015
Ryanair launches second unsecured Eurobond
End of Document
Ryanair prices record unsecured Eurobond
Ryanair prices record unsecured Eurobond
AirFinance Journal
March 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 237 words
Byline: Dickon Harris
Highlight: Irish low-cost carrier smashes last year record pricing for its new â,¬850 million bond.
Body
Ryanair has priced an eight-yearâ,¬850million unsecured Eurobond in the last two hours.
The notes are expected to mature on 10 March 2023.
The deal priced at MS+67bps with a coupon of 1.125% - a new record for aviation issuances.
The deal marks Ryanair's second unsecured Eurobond transaction following itshugely successful debut7-
yearâ,¬850million eurobond executed in June 2014.
Initial pricing chatter on the deal was around MS+80bps area -which would have been a record by itself but 
increased demand helped lower the price to MS+67bps.
.Citi, BNP and Credit Agricole are the joint bookrunners on the transaction. Citi is the billing and delivery bank on 
the deal.
In JuneRyanair priced a debut â,¬850 million seven-year unsecured bond. The deal scored the hat-trick of being 
the lowest coupon ever in the airline sector, the lowest coupon for an Irish corporate and the joint lowest coupon for 
any seven-year BBB+ Eurobond.
The Irish carrier's 2014 notes were significantly oversubscribed attracting at least â,¬6 billion worth of bids for the 
bond. The carrier decided to increase the size of the bond from over â,¬500 million to â,¬850 million.
The 2014 deal priced at midswaps +85bp and carried a coupon of 1.875%
The notes were part of Ryanair's â,¬3 billion medium-term note programme.
Citi was theglobal coordinator for last year's bondwhile BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank arethe joint bookrunners.  
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Ryanair prices record unsecured Eurobond
Load-Date: March 23, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair considers long-haul aircraft for transatlantic flights
Ryanair considers long-haul aircraft for transatlantic flights
AirFinance Journal
March 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,NORTH AMERICA,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 112 words
Highlight: Irish LCC intends to fly to up to 14 American cities.
Body
Irish carrier Ryanair is considering acquiring long-haul aircraft for transatlantic flights.
A spokeswoman for the airline confirmed it is "talking to manufacturers" about acquiring long-haul aircraft, but 
declined to comment on which aircraft it is considering.
She added that Ryanair expects to obtain suitable long-haul aircraft within four to five years.
Earlier this week, the carrier announced its intention to offer flights between 12-14 European cities and 12-14 US 
cities.
Ryanair launched its second unsecured Eurobond in March, worth â,¬850 million.
To see all ofRyanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: April 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair abandons transatlantic plans
Ryanair abandons transatlantic plans
AirFinance Journal
March 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 105 words
Byline: Joe Kavanagh
Highlight: Irish LCC says it will not launch transatlantic flights.
Body
Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair has abandoned its plans to acquire long-haul aircraft for transatlantic flights.
The airline representative said earlier this week that Ryanair was in discussions with manufacturers for "viable long 
haul aircraft" for transatlantic flights in four or five years' time.
However, the carrier released a statement yesterday that read: "[T]he Board of Ryanair Holdings Plc wishes to 
clarify that it has not considered or approved any transatlantic project and does not intend to do so."
To see all ofRyanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Joe.Kavanagh@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: April 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair orders three more 737s
Ryanair orders three more 737s
AirFinance Journal
March 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 100 words
Highlight: Irish low-cost carrier now has 174 unfilled orders for the jet.
Body
Ryanair 737-800.
Ryanair has ordered three new 737-800s, with list prices valuing the order at $280 million.
The aircraft will be delivered in early 2016. The Irish operator now has unfilled orders for 174 737-800s and 100 737 
MAX 200s, with an option for 100 more MAXs.
The orders are part of the airline's plan to expand its fleet from 308 to 520 aircraft by March 2024.
Yesterday, Ryanair priced its second eight-year â,¬850million unsecured Eurobond, smashing last year's record 
pricing.
To see all ofRyanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: March 23, 2015
End of Document
Dublin rebuffs IAG bid for Aer Lingus over job fears; Travel & leisure
Dublin rebuffs IAG bid for Aer Lingus over job fears; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
February 25, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 15
Length: 503 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin and Peggy Hollinger in London
Highlight: State seeks firm commitment before relinquishing 25% stake in Irish airline
Body
The Irish government yesterday rebuffed an attempt by International Airlines Group to buy Aer Lingus, saying it 
needed more assurances on jobs and growth prospects before it would consider selling the state's 25 per cent 
stake in the Irish flag carrier.
The move is a blow to Dublin-born IAG chief Willie Walsh 's hopes of buying the airline he used to run. It came 
despite a groundswell of support for a sale of Aer Lingus from the airline's board, industry lobby groups and some 
Irish politicians. In its first detailed comment on IAG's EUR1.4bn bid for Aer Lingus, the Irish government said it 
wanted clarity about the effect of a takeover on jobs at the Dublin-based carrier and at the country's airports.
It also sought "firm commitments and details" on how Aer Lingus's transatlantic routes would be expanded, and 
guarantees on connections from Ireland to Heathrow airport, London, for longer than the five years IAG has offered.
Paschal Donohoe, the Irish transport minister, said: "The information and commitments that have been provided to 
date do not at present provide a basis on which the government could give an irrevocable commitment to accept an 
offer to dispose of its shares, should one be made by IAG."
He added that the government remained "open to considering any improved proposal from IAG". The UK-listed 
group was formed by the merger of British Airways and Iberia and also owns Vueling.
Dublin rebuffs IAG bid for Aer Lingus over job fears; Travel & leisure
Mr Walsh had said IAG's approach for Aer Lingus was conditional on acceptances from the Irish government and 
Ryanair, the Dublin-based low-cost carrier, which owns 30 per cent of its rival after three failed attempts to buy it in 
the past decade.
Mr Walsh told Irish MPs this month that a commitment by IAG to allow Aer Lingus to use its take-off and landing 
slots at Heathrow airport for flights to Ireland could not be extended beyond five years.
The IAG chief said he was not prepared to extend the timeframe to allay political concerns in Ireland.
However, some analysts speculated that if IAG were given guarantees that landing charges at Irish airports would 
not rise significantly, it could be possible for Mr Walsh to extend the timeframe.
Dublin has appeared increasingly nervous about backing a takeover of Aer Lingus with just a year to go before a 
general election. Several MPs from the Labour party, the junior partner in the coalition government, represent 
constituencies near airports, including Dublin.
The party faces an electoral rout over its perceived enthusiasm for austerity during Ireland's financial bailout.
The government's stance is also a blow to Colm Barrington , Aer Lingus's chairman. The airline's board had 
strongly backed its integration into IAG, and the support was reiterated yesterday when Aer Lingus reported strong 
underlying results for 2014.
IAG first approached Aer Lingus before Christmas but had its first two indicative offers rejected.
IAG's current preliminary offer is pitched at EUR2.50 a share, valuing the Irish carrier at just under EUR1.4bn.
Analysis and Lombard page 20
Load-Date: February 24, 2015
End of Document
Dublin rebuffs IAG bid for Aer Lingus Travel & leisure
Dublin rebuffs IAG bid for Aer Lingus; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
February 25, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 12
Length: 483 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin and Peggy Hollinger in London
Highlight: Ireland says it needs more assurances on jobs and growth prospects
Body
The Irish government yesterday rebuffed an attempt by International Airlines Group to buy Aer Lingus, saying it 
needed more assurances on jobs and growth prospects before it would consider selling the state's 25 per cent 
stake in the Irish flag carrier.
The move is a blow to Dublin-born IAG chief Willie Walsh 's hopes of buying the Irish airline he used to run. It came 
despite a groundswell of support for a sale of Aer Lingus from the airline's board, industry lobby groups and some 
Irish politicians. In its first detailed comment on IAG's EUR1.4bn bid for Aer Lingus, the Irish government said it 
wanted clarity about the effect of a takeover on jobs at the Dublin-based carrier and at the country's airports. It also 
sought "firm commitments and details" on how Aer Lingus' transatlantic routes would be expanded and guarantees 
on connections from Ireland to London's Heathrow airport for longer than the five years IAG has offered.
Paschal Donohoe, the Irish transport minister, said: "The information and commitments that have been provided to 
date do not at present provide a basis on which the government could give an irrevocable commitment to accept an 
offer to dispose of its shares, should one be made by IAG".
He added that the government remained "open to considering any improved proposal from IAG". The UK-listed 
group was formed by the merger of British Airways and Iberia and also owns Vueling.
Dublin rebuffs IAG bid for Aer Lingus Travel & leisure
Mr Walsh had said IAG's approach for Aer Lingus was conditional on acceptances from the Irish government and 
Ryanair, the Dublin-based low-cost carrier, which owns 30 per cent of its rival after three failed attempts to buy it in 
the past decade.
Mr Walsh told Irish MPs this month that a commitment by IAG to allow Aer Lingus to use its take-off and landing 
slots at Heathrow airport for flights to Ireland could not be extended beyond five years. The IAG chief said he was 
not prepared to extend the timeframe to allay political concerns in Ireland.
However, some analysts speculated that if IAG were given guarantees that landing charges at Irish airports would 
not rise significantly, it could be possible for Mr Walsh to extend the timeframe.
Dublin has appeared increasingly nervous about backing a takeover of Aer Lingus with just a year to go before a 
general election. Several MPs from the Labour party, the junior partner in the coalition government, represent 
constituencies near airports, including Dublin. The party faces an electoral rout over its perceived enthusiasm for 
austerity during Ireland's financial bailout.
The government's stance is also a blow to Colm Barrington , Aer Lingus's chairman. The airline's board had 
strongly backed its integration into IAG, and the support was reiterated yesterday when Aer Lingus reported strong 
underlying results for 2014.
IAG's current preliminary offer is pitched at EUR2.50 a share valuing the Irish carrier at just under EUR1.4bn.
Load-Date: February 24, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus takeover proposal remains up in the air Travel & leisure: IAG pursuit
Aer Lingus takeover proposal remains up in the air; Travel & leisure: IAG 
pursuit
Financial Times (London, England)
February 25, 2015 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 649 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Highlight: Irish politicians - facing an election within a year - ask for more detail on fate of jobs
Body
It is all over bar the politics. Even as Aer Lingus yesterday buffed its credentials for a takeover by International 
Airlines Group by reporting a rise in passenger numbers and revenue on its transatlantic routes, IAG's EUR1.4bn 
bid for the Irish flag carrier remained tantalisingly out of reach on the political front.
Despite a growing chorus of Irish support for the takeover - led by the Aer Lingus board, and groups including 
tourism bodies and the inward investment agency - the government is still playing hard to get with UK-listed IAG.
In its most detailed statement so far on the fate of Aer Lingus, Paschal Donohoe, transport minister, said the 
government wanted more clarification from IAG on what a takeover would mean for jobs and the long-term 
prospects of Aer Lingus continuing to fly from London's Heathrow airport to Ireland.
His statement coincided with a meeting of the Irish cabinet, and this would all appear to leave IAG, led by ex-pilot 
Willie Walsh , flying above Dublin airport, still awaiting clearance to land. IAG said it would consider the Irish 
government's statement "in due course".
Mr Walsh may have thought that his argument for buying Aer Lingus was strengthened by the strong financial 
results announced by the Irish carrier yesterday. These showed that the airline expanded transatlantic capacity by 
nearly a third last year and carried a fifth more passengers on those routes than in 2013. Aer Lingus also raised its 
Aer Lingus takeover proposal remains up in the air Travel & leisure: IAG pursuit
operating profit by 18 per cent to EUR72m, and boosted its net cash position at the end of last year by almost a 
third to EUR545m.
It reported a pre-tax loss of EUR111m because of an exceptional EUR180m payment to the Aer Lingus pension 
scheme - a move that went some way towards addressing a large deficit.
But Christoph Mueller , the outgoing chief executive, insisted its operating margin of 4.6 per cent made Aer Lingus 
the third most profitable carrier in Europe behind Ryanair and easyJet (IAG-owned British Airways recorded a 4.8 
per cent margin in the first six months of 2014).
Mr Walsh may be disappointed by the Irish government's statement, which came despite an intense public lobbying 
exercise by IAG that was slow to start but has since gained momentum.
Analysts said the statement, which leaves open the prospect that Dublin would consider a revised offer by IAG if its 
concerns are addressed, summed up the push-pull nature of the government's task - whether to bow to industry 
calls to back the sale to IAG, or to give weight to local factors like job security.
Aer Lingus management used the annual results presentation to reiterate its support for a sale to IAG. Mr Mueller, 
who is leaving this week to run Malaysia Airlines, said the indicative IAG offer price - EUR2.50 per share with a 
EUR0.05 dividend - "is more than ever justified".
The Irish government will now await a response from IAG, which made its first approach to buy Aer Lingus more 
than two months ago. A deal breaker may be Dublin's insistence that Mr Walsh go further than his guarantee that 
Aer Lingus's Heathrow slots be used on Irish routes for five years.
Mr Walsh met trade union representatives from Aer Lingus on Monday to discuss IAG's offer for Aer Lingus. Union 
spokesmen claimed afterwards that they had "heard nothing new" on the prospect of job losses, which Mr Walsh 
has said would be small and confined to administrative staff. But this may have been enough for the Labour party - 
the junior partner in the coalition government with close ties to the unions - to insist that the terms of IAG's offer 
were so far not acceptable.
The fact that an election is due within a year may have swayed the cabinet's thinking. But it is unlikely to stem the 
support for a sale outside political circles. PJ Byrne of the Dublin Aviation Institute said a political decision not to sell 
the 25.1 per cent stake would be "a serious missed opportunity".
See Lombard
Load-Date: February 24, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to launch new service between Copenhagen and Dublin
Ryanair to launch new service between Copenhagen and Dublin
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 23, 2015 Monday 4:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 120 words
Highlight: Copenhagen Airport has announced that Ryanair will launch a new service between Copenhagen, 
Denmark and Dublin, Ireland in 2015.
Body
Dublin will be one of the new 13 routes to be operated from Copenhagen. The Irish capital will be added to 
Ryanairs' future network out of Copenhagen. The new route will start from March 18. Ryanair announced in 
October last year plans to open a base in Copenhagen Airport with four aircraft to operate on initially 13 
destinations. From March 26, the Irish low-cost airline will fly to London Luton 2 x daily and once daily to Warsaw 
Modlin and Bergamo near Milan. From September it will be three times daily to London and twice daily to Bergamo 
at Milan. From September 2, Ryanair will fly from Copenhagen to Madrid and Rome Ciampino once a day, and from 
Oct. 25 once a day to Brussels Charleroi and Stockholm Skavsta.
Load-Date: March 1, 2015
End of Document
Employers have learned new tricks from airlines
Employers have learned new tricks from airlines
Sunday Business Post
February 22, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 804 words
Body
Ireland has yet again been the focus of international media for a light-touch approach to regulation - this time 
related to the aviation industry.
Bloomberg recently reported that    budget airlines   in Europe were    chasing the lowest pay and most relaxed 
work rules for pilots  . They singled out Ryanair and Norwegian Air Shuttle, whose long-haul subsidiary, Norwegian 
Air International, is based in Ireland, though it operates no flights here.
Bloomberg's source was a report published by researchers at Ghent University, funded by the European 
Commission, on on the increasing use of    atypical   forms of employment in the aviation industry (   atypical   being 
anything    other than an open-ended employment contract  ).
Almost two thirds of Ryanair pilots surveyed were on atypical contracts, with 27 per cent    self-employed  , they 
found. At Norwegian, 63 per cent of pilots surveyed had contracts via a    temporary work agency  .
Ryanair has disputed the findings, saying that, as the survey was anonymous and no proof of identity was required, 
it was    gamed  .
A British court judgement in 2013, in an employment dispute involving a Ryanair pilot, contained details of what the 
judge pithily described as the    not straightforward   employment arrangements at Ryanair.
New recruits to Ryanair were first referred to a company called Brookfield Aviation International, the judge recorded. 
Brookfield then sent the pilot to an accountancy firm, which provided a service company of which the pilot became a 
director.
This company then contracted the services of the pilot to Brookfield, and Brookfield contracted those services to 
Ryanair. Responsibility for tax and social insurance contributions was left with the pilot, and were to be paid in 
Ireland, though the pilot was Dutch and based in Belgium. The Ghent report calls such practices    bogus self 
employment  .
Employers have learned new tricks from airlines
I put this to Ryanair. It said the report was based on a    bogus survey   and that    all Ryanair employment complies 
fully with Irish and EU employment law  .
Other employment trends cited in the report (but not in reference to Ryanair or Norwegian) were increasing use of    
zero hour   contracts (where the pilot is contracted but no work is guaranteed) and    pay to fly   (where junior pilots 
pay for flying experience).
The result of any savings on staff costs, of course, is lower air fares. Norwegian is doing for trans-Atlantic routes 
what Ryanair has already done in Europe. This doesn't just mean cheaper holidays; it boosts trade and growth.
But there's a broader, societal concern. The strategies being pursued by budget airlines are being replicated across 
Europe and across the economy - and Ireland is in their vanguard.
Ireland is one of the best countries in the world in which to do business, in part because of our labour laws, which 
are among the most flexible in advanced economies. And the employer's burden of social insurance contributions 
here is one of the lowest in Europe.
Zero-hour contracts, under which no employment is guaranteed, and low-hour contracts, under which employers 
require workers to be available for part-time hours but may in practice employ them full-time, long-term, without the 
employee acquiring commensurate rights, are common, particularly in the retail and hospitality sectors.
In the ideal world inhabited by neoclassical economists, this is all good: decisions on human resource deployment 
are taken by those most responsive to market signals; lower costs drive down prices; this boosts demand and 
raises aggregate wealth.
(In this ideal world, too, credit derivatives distribute risk more effectively, leading to a more robust banking sector 
which can therefore take on greater leverage . . .)
But in the real world, there is a trade-off. Productivity gains in certain industries are being facilitated by hidden state 
subsidies, through social welfare for part-time workers and family income supplement for the low-paid.
Increasing flexibility in atypical contracts results in a widening gap between those in full-time, permanent 
employment and those with less secure contracts (even the OECD has expressed concerns about this). Families 
end up trapped in low-income situations, with enduring implications both for welfare dependency and for aggregate 
demand. Ireland is second only to the US in the proportion of low-paid jobs in the economy, according to research 
by Morgan Stanley.
And even if, in the aggregate, such strategies fuel growth, how sustainable is that growth? The theory of free trade 
suggests that overall wealth increases as countries specialise in industries where they have a natural competitive 
advantage. If countries instead specialise in undercutting tax and regulatory requirements, they just produce a race 
to the bottom in which all eventually lose - except the corporates.
Load-Date: March 2, 2015
End of Document
The week in business
The week in business
Sunday Business Post
February 22, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1095 words
Body
**Healthy start to health tech's global domination plans**
-- I had a coffee with the guys who run the Dublin-based health tech business Oneview this week, catching them 
between flights as they jet around the world putting that $7 million they've raised to good use.
They're just back from the launch of the $1.6 billion UCSF medical centre in Silicon Valley where founder Mark 
McCloskey rubbed shoulders with Bill Clinton and the Valley titan billionaire Marc Benioff.
Oneview's system has been deployed throughout the three state-of-the-art hospitals there, providing what here at 
home seems like wildly futuristic technology, to do everything from manage patients' records to letting them play 
video games.
Part of the US president's Obamacare mission is the efficient digitisation of medical records, which makes 
Oneview's global expansion timing pretty healthy. Microsoft, HP and Intel have all chosen Oneview as a partner in 
systems for hospital and post-hospital care that work on smart devices.
McCloskey built up ATM operator EasyCash, while Aussie former investment banker James Fitter is chief 
executive.
The senior team includes Bill Gates's former right-hand-man Daniel Petre, and top former Cisco and HP executives; 
Ryanair director James Osborne is chairman. Its backers are mainly high net worth individuals and investors from 
Fitter's Australian, Middle Eastern and Asian contacts book.
Last week, a new EUR 300 million cancer hospital in Sydney went live with Oneview's systems. Contract 
negotiations with a major medical centre in New York are going on. About eight client hospitals are due to go live 
this year.
The week in business
Each setup gives revenue in the region of EUR 3 million to EUR 5 million per facility, and there's a pipeline of work 
for the next three years, Fitter tells me.
The as yet unexplored territory of Europe, where there has been interest from countries like Germany, could prompt 
another fundraise. Fitter spent most of July in Silicon Valley and met with several high-profile venture capital names 
there.
There are 42 staff right now and hiring is under way. Best of all, the nifty technology behind it was developed here 
in Ireland.
.................................
**Richard Barrett gets poetical**
-- An old face from halcyon boom days put in an appearance at Irish Times journalist Frank McDonald's retirement 
do recently. Richard Barrett, one half of what McDonald's book The Builders called the    terrible twins of the Celtic 
Tiger   joined the send-off party.
The erudite developer even recited a poem. Titled Bus Pass, the gist of the oeuvre was that the free travel pass 
would not be enough for McDonald, a not infrequent flyer to environmental conferences and the like in his day.
In an earlier book, McDonald, a long time reporter on, and critic of, aspects of development and city planning, 
likened the activities of entrepreneurs such as Johnny Ronan and Richard Barrett of Treasury Holdings to    the 
same buccaneering spirit as you'd see in New York with Donald Trump  .
But can Donald Trump craft a decent poem?
.................................
**New stage in a 'beautiful friendship'**
-- News from the gracious environs of Michael Smurfit's K Club in Straffan is that US ambassador Kevin O'Malley's 
visit there last Tuesday went down rather well.
Senior figures from the likes of Kerry Group, State Street, Intel, HP and Pfizer, as well as key local businesses, 
gathered for his address which praised    Michael's lovely club  . The event was organised by North Kildare 
Chamber of Commerce.
O'Malley's grandparents were from Westport,    true risk-takers   he said, travelling to Chicago with not much more 
than the equivalent of $20 and a tin teapot to their name.
Right now the EU and US are hashing out a huge new trade deal. The catchily titled Transatlantic Trade and 
Investment Partnership was cheer-led by Ireland during its EU presidency and means either a healthy dismantling 
of costly tariffs and red tape or an anti-consumer corporate free-for-all, depending on who's talking.
O'Malley and his overlords see it as a potentially major benefit for Ireland, and especially small and medium 
businesses.
   It helps those companies that, up until now, have found the American market too complicated or too daunting to 
go into,   he said.
   It's a way to make that relationship [between Ireland and the US] even closer and even better, with more and 
more extraordinary things to come,   he predicted.
.................................
**No infidelity, we're Irish**
The week in business
-- AshleyMadison.com, the website that caters for married people seeking a little - eh - extra-curricular activity, 
makes millions from its 125,000 Irish subscribers, according to founder Noel Biderman.
But it still can't entice any Irish people to work for it. Biderman had to dissolve the Irish operation, which was to be 
its European hub.    We pay the average web engineer six figures,   he told The Sunday Business Post.    Even the 
guys straight out of college.  
He put it down to Ireland's cultural hang-ups about morality and religion; apparently those hang-ups travel well. He 
tried again to hire Irish staff, this time for his Toronto base, offering moving expenses. But not one candidate 
applied.
.................................
**Oscars' spotlight on Co Clare power broker**
-- Tonight is Academy Awards night and, of course, the limelight is trained on the stars who are nominated.
But behind each Hollywood star is their power broker, the agent who fights their corner on profit shares and getting 
the right scripts and roles.
One of the most powerful is Barefield native Hylda Queally, who represents two of this year's nominees, Jessica 
Chastain and Marion Cotillard.
Other clients include Cate Blanchett, who made Queally the first person she thanked in her Oscar speech last year, 
calling her    a goddess  . She also represents Penelope Cruz and Kate Winslet.
Top Tinseltown agents typically make as much as 20 per cent of client's earnings and Queally is rewarded to the 
tune of millions for shaping her star clients' careers.
.................................
**Tweet of the week**
   Why I have resigned from the Daily Telegraph  
The respected political journalist Peter Oborne on his bombshell decision to leave the Barclays-owned newspaper 
over its coverage (or non-coverage) of the HSBC SwissLeaks fraud scandal.
.................................
**Word on the street**
CarVal has teamed up with Goldman Sachs on a big loan book buy. The pair have made the shortlist of bidders for 
Permanent TSB's EUR 1.5 billion Project Leinster and Munster property loan books.
Load-Date: March 2, 2015
End of Document
Vodafone makes a move into pay TV
Vodafone makes a move into pay TV
Sunday Business Post
February 22, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: TECHNOLOGY
Length: 209 words
Body
Vodafone's global operation announced plans to enter the pay TV market earlier this month, providing the operator 
with the ability to enter the quad-play market in Ireland. Plans to roll out a TV service in Britain have already been 
announced, but Peter Boyland, technology operators analyst at IHS, said Vodafone could enjoy more success in 
the Irish market.
   Vodafone is also looking at launching a fixed-line operation from the base in Britain. We're not convinced it's the 
right move. Ireland is different because Vodafone already has fixed-line and broadband customers,   said Boyland.
   The deal with the ESB gives them access to fibre infrastructure. They could look to differentiate there, by offering 
more high-capacity services. It has a base to build on if it brings in pay TV, and obviously Sky is a good partner for 
them,   he said.
The move comes as Vodafone ramps up the enterprise side of its triple-play business. Last week the operator 
secured a deal with Ryanair to provide triple-play services across 189 locations in Europe.
   For enterprise customers now, it's about bundling and being able to give all of that to an organisation, not just in 
Ireland, but across the world,   said Anne Sheehan, enterprise director at Vodafone Ireland.
Load-Date: March 2, 2015
End of Document
Legal action initiated against Cork Airport contractors by DAA
Legal action initiated against Cork Airport contractors by DAA
Sunday Business Post
February 22, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 290 words
Body
The Dublin Airport Authority (DAA) has initiated legal proceedings against BAM Construction and Jacobs 
Engineering.
It is understood that the cases relate to issues with the roof of Cork Airport.
The airport authority filed papers last week regarding issues with the roof of the state-of-the-art EUR 120 million 
terminal and it is understood that the cases were discussed at a DAA board meeting in recent weeks.
The airport was forced to close last February as debris fell from the new roof amid a storm that wrought havoc on 
the city. However, according to aviation sources, the issues with the roof predate the serious damage caused by the 
storm, which has since been repaired.
Both BAM Construction and Jacobs Engineering were contracted to work on Cork Airport's new terminal building, 
which was opened in 2006 at an estimated cost of EUR 120 million.
Since then, numerous other problems apart from the leaking roof are understood to have surfaced at the airport, 
including issues with toilet facilities and the street lighting around the building.
The airport has seen its passenger numbers plummet from a peak of 3.25 million in 2008 down to an estimated 2.1 
million last year, a decline of 36 per cent.
Aviation experts have cited issues related to the huge debts incurred as part of building the high-end terminal as a 
key factor in Cork Airport's faltering development - as high capital and interest costs restrict the airport's ability to 
lower charges and compete for new traffic.
The new terminal was dismissed by Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary as    a white elephant   when the sod was turned 
on the project by then taoiseach Bertie Ahern.
Legal action initiated against Cork Airport contractors by DAA
O'Leary tried and failed to turn the airport's old terminal into a Ryanair facility. It is now unused.
Load-Date: March 2, 2015
End of Document
Profile Stephen Kavanagh: Aer apparent
Profile Stephen Kavanagh: Aer apparent
Sunday Business Post
February 22, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1432 words
Body
**Factfile**
**Age:**47
**Appearance:**dapper, middle-aged man in a suit
**Newsworthiness:**the Aer Lingus lifer has just been appointed chief executive of the airline
......
Stephen Kavanagh may well drive growth at Aer Lingus. He might even help drive through the controversial IAG 
takeover deal. But one thing he definitely will not do is drive himself.
The new Aer Lingus chief executive designate has much in common with a former incumbent in the job, current IAG 
boss Willie Walsh: they both rose through the ranks, they both helped shape the modern Aer Lingus and the former 
colleagues are known to enjoy the odd pint together in The Goose Tavern close to Kavanagh's Marino home on 
Dublin's northside.
But driving is just not an option. While Walsh is a trained commercial pilot, Kavanagh has never even obtained a 
driver's licence, never mind a car. He catches the Number 41 bus to work and is unlikely to change his habits 
following promotion from chief strategy and planning officer to chief executive.
A decade ago, when Walsh began to push Aer Lingus in the direction of Ryanair's low-cost model, Kavanagh was a 
trusted lieutenant and an avid proponent of the new cost-cutting agenda.
   I couldn't imagine Stephen using a driver to get to work just because he is chief executive,   says someone who 
knows him well.    He'd never live it down.  
Profile Stephen Kavanagh: Aer apparent
Frugality aside, Kavanagh is a popular choice among colleagues at all levels. Nevertheless, there is a belief that his 
appointment is with a view to IAG completing a deal to buy Aer Lingus.
   It's the clearest indication yet that the deal is going to go through,   said one aviation source.    Name the current 
BA chief executive? No one says Keith Williams. Like Stephen, he is a low-key character who rose through the 
ranks. When BA is in the spotlight it's all about Willie Walsh, just as it is at [IAG's other airlines] Vueling and Iberia, 
and Aer Lingus will be the same. Walsh wants an Irish country manager for IAG, not a Christoph Mueller-style CEO.  
**Rise through the ranks**
Kavanagh grew up in Drimnagh in Dublin before moving to Marino. He played Gaelic football for Good Counsel and 
Leinster Senior League soccer with Pegasus. He passionately follows Arsenal and is an all-round sports fan. At 47, 
he stays fit too. In September he captained Aer Lingus to the 'Fastest Airline in the World' title at a 12km run on 
Budapest Airport's main runway.
His first attempt at an airport career did not get off to a flying start. His father Tommy was a well-liked senior fire 
officer at Dublin Airport and a good trade union man. Nevertheless, his son was turned down when he too applied 
to join the airport fire service.
But in 1988 he secured a post with Aer Lingus at Dublin Airport check-in - a fun but hardworking environment. 
Grooming was ruthless for female staff, merely rigid for males. One supervisor specialised in marching staff to the 
terminal's Sock Shop if stockings dared stray too far beyond black. Early morning starts and late night trips to 
Portmarnock hotspot Tamangos were the norm. Kavanagh survived and is remembered by colleagues as quiet and 
diligent.
Three years later he escaped the check-in desks for the more sedate head office block, where larger-than-life 
chairman Bernie Cahill roamed, a fine art collection still hung and the real opportunities for those with ambition lay.
Kavanagh was posted to the schedules department where he worked under Alan Joyce, now chief executive of 
Australian carrier Qantas and a cousin of Willie Walsh. Kavanagh excelled and was moved to planning and 
commercial management and was promoted by Walsh to operations planning manager in 2003.
   He has a fantastic understanding of the strategies that work in the airline business and how to schedule and 
operate aircraft to get the maximum efficiencies from them,   recalled one colleague.
Walsh had set about transforming the airline's short haul strategy to create a unique hybrid model. Kavanagh 
worked very closely with him to stretch the length of the Aer Lingus day. Where once the first flight would head for 
Heathrow at 8am, Kavanagh negotiated a minefield to pull that back to 6am. Instead of 8.30pm, the last flight would 
return to Dublin around 2am.
After Walsh's departure, those close to the former chief executive faced a new regime and a nervous time as the 
airline stagnated and faced restructuring. But Kavanagh continued to shine. He joined the senior management team 
in 2006 as planning director and was made chief commercial officer in 2009. There he drove the airline's ancillary 
revenues to impressive heights.
The following year he struck a crucial franchise deal that branded Aer Arann (now Stobart Air) operated flights to 
Britain as Aer Lingus Regional. Few predicted success for the venture, but it has become a crucial strategic feed 
into an Aer Lingus transatlantic service which also expanded under Kavanagh's guidance. A deal with US airline 
JetBlue further enhanced Dublin's growing reputation as a transatlantic hub.
One former colleague described him as the best commercial manager he ever worked with, but said he is, 
refreshingly, not typical chief executive material.
   He is not flamboyant and does not seek publicity. He is a Pellegrini, not a Mourinho.  
Profile Stephen Kavanagh: Aer apparent
But another colleague described him as    quiet, introverted and not a natural leader   and sees communication as a 
potential weakness.
   He is bookish, analytical and highly intelligent but, perhaps because of that, is not always good at communicating 
on a one-to-one level. You can have a bit of craic with him, but there is also a serious and introverted side. He gets 
on brilliantly with equally intellectual people, like financial analysts, and is in his comfort zone when talking numbers 
and detail in investor meetings.  
Colleagues and analysts alike recall his performances on the airline's IPO roadshow as highly impressive, for 
example.
   The analysts always loved Stephen,   said one observer.    He answers their questions, but will then say 
something like, 'I looked at your financial model and I think you have the cost of fuel a little too high in October.' He 
gives them time and indulges them. That is a different scenario to standing up in the baggage hall in front of 100 
lads who are tough as nails with a part of you wondering are you going to get out of there alive. Getting those guys 
on your side is a whole different skill that Christoph Mueller definitely had and that Stephen will need in the coming 
months, particularly if IAG walk away.  
Few doubt that Kavanagh will prove adept at maximising the growth and revenue promised under the IAG deal. But 
even if the deal succeeds, Kavanagh will know better than anyone that his new boss has a deep understanding of 
the problems that Walsh - and subsequent chief executives - never managed to solve.
   Willie Walsh knows there is unfinished business,   says one source.    He knows the pilots need to be tackled, that 
there are too many baggage handlers and that the airline needs to get out of groundhandling at Dublin. That job is 
Stephen's, IAG deal or not.  
**Walking the tightrope**
This Tuesday, Kavanagh will attempt a delicate balancing act when he presents the Aer Lingus financial results for 
2014. He is likely to highlight opportunity and challenges in equal measure. He will need to show continued support 
for an IAG takeover that he has already backed, while simultaneously painting a positive picture of the airline's 
future should the deal not succeed.
Like most other aviation analysts, Davy Stockbrokers' Stephen Furlong believes Kavanagh was a wise choice 
regardless of the outcome and can walk this tightrope. He believes Kavanagh would work well in the IAG structure 
or as the boss of a small independent airline.
   He is the ideal person to bring Aer Lingus forward under either scenario,   said Furlong, who like nearly all 
aviation analysts, strongly supports the IAG bid.
   During the downturn there were declining traffic flows from Ireland and Aer Lingus had to get out there and create 
traffic. Kavanagh was a big part of that. But you won't get sugar coating and over optimism from him. If there is 
another downturn in the airline industry - and there always is - it is going to be difficult no matter who is in charge. 
Kavanagh has real hands-on experience and much success in the areas that will remain absolutely key to the future 
of Aer Lingus under IAG or as an independent carrier. Either way he is the right man for the job.  
One way or another, there are likely to be some interesting conversations on the 41 bus over the coming months.
Load-Date: March 2, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus staff change tack to support IAG's takeover bid
Aer Lingus staff change tack to support IAG's takeover bid
Sunday Business Post
February 22, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 582 words
Body
Aer Lingus staff support IAG's move to buy the former national carrier, an email from a key trade union official to the 
airline's new chief executive has indicated.
There is    great excitement   among Aer Lingus staff about IAG's EUR 1.36 billion proposal to buy the airline, wrote 
the senior trade union official.
The email, sent to congratulate Aer Lingus-lifer Stephen Kavanagh on his appointment to replace Christoph 
Mueller, indicates a major softening in trade union opposition to the prospect of the deal.
It also appears at odds with the stated position of a range of Fine Gael and Labour Party ministers and local 
representatives, although former Labour Party minister Pat Rabbitte has come out in favour of the deal in his 
column in today's Sunday Business Post.
Myles Worth, the secretary of the airline's Central Representative Council (CRC) - an Irish Congress of Trade Union 
grouping of the company's trade unions - highlighted increased jobs and new routes as key positives in IAG's plan 
to buy the airline.
   Obviously there is great excitement around the company this morning with more routes to the USA in the pipeline 
if this transaction takes place, along with the prospect of 500 more jobs,   said the email.
   While we did meet initially with the management team in late December 2014, when the prospect of a potential 
bid was flagged by IAG, the information afforded to us at the time was extremely limited. It would appear to be 
much more advanced now,   it said.
Worth sent the email the day after Kavanagh had said that the bid would accelerate growth at the airline, 
particularly on long-haul services.
Aer Lingus staff change tack to support IAG's takeover bid
The new Aer Lingus boss had been speaking before a hearing into the deal by the Oireachtas joint committee on 
transport and communications, where he also warned that failure to complete the deal would leave Aer Lingus    
increasingly vulnerable  .
   Firstly,   said the trade union email,    I must congratulate you on your appointment to the position of Aer Lingus 
chief executive. On behalf of the CRC and all the trade union groups within the company we wish you very well and 
look forward to working closely with you and your team in maintaining and developing Aer Lingus to achieve further 
success and prosperity, which it has enjoyed in recent times.  
The trade unions are seeking a meeting    at your earliest convenience to discuss in more detail the 
announcements made during the Aer Lingus/IAG bid discussions that have taken place in the Oireachtas,   said 
Worth, who has been group secretary to the group of unions in Aer Lingus for the past nine years. He led the trade 
union defence against all three of Ryanair's unsuccessful bids for Aer Lingus.
The email marks a major turnaround from the position he took last month in front of the Oireachtas hearing into the 
proposed deal when he said that the Willie Walsh-led bid had    raised huge concerns among the 4,000 workforce  .
He told the hearing that synergies from the deal could lead to as many as 1,200 jobs being moved to IAG 
headquarters in Britain, which would have a devastating effect on employment.
   Nothing has changed since 2006,   he said.    If anything the case for the state retaining its share in Aer Lingus 
has probably been strengthened. Ireland is recognised as having a very good transport network infrastructure and 
many of the world's leading hi-tech companies have a base here. Even Fianna Fáil could see the importance of 
maintaining connectivity when it privatised the company.  
Load-Date: March 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair partners with Vodafone; Ryanair Comms
Ryanair partners with Vodafone; Ryanair Comms
Business World (Digest)
February 19, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 280 words
Highlight: Vodafone Ireland today announced details of its partnership with Ryanair to provide 95pc of the carrier's 
telecoms and communications needs.
Body
Vodafone Ireland today announced details of its partnership with Ryanair to provide 95pc of the carrier's telecoms 
and communications needs.
Vodafone will support ticketing, check-in, ground crews, in-flight crews and pilots with telephony, fixed line and 
mobile 3G and 4G functionality across Ryanair's 189 locations in Europe and North Africa.
Commenting on the partnership, Vodafone Ireland Enterprise Director, Anne Sheehan, said: "This business 
partnership is one of the most significant for Vodafone Ireland to date, demonstrating our total communications 
capabilities by providing complete end-to-end solutions tailored to Ryanair's requirements across 189 locations in 
Europe. Ryanair is a company that is driving innovative technology solutions in the airline industry and Vodafone is 
delighted to partner with them to drive this evolution."
Part of the initiative is the introduction of the electronic flight bag that will remove paper from the cockpit. In addition, 
Vodafone will support the on-board electronic point of sale (EPOS) devices used for in-flight credit card sales. From 
April 2015 Ryanair crew will be issued with 8,000 new handheld devices with machine to machine connectivity 
which will create a secure managed connection to sync data with credit card companies when the plane lands. 
Ryanair's Chief Technology Officer, John Hurley said: "Over the last 30 years, Ryanair has revolutionised and 
democratised air travel for European citizens, growing to become Europe's largest airline with the widest route 
network, connecting 189 destinations in 30 countries, through more than 1,600 routes - and all at the lowest fares." 
For more, visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 23, 2015
Ryanair partners with Vodafone; Ryanair Comms
End of Document
Remote Alaskans Finally Get Broadband
Remote Alaskans Finally Get Broadband
International Business Times News
February 18, 2015 Wednesday 9:53 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1311 words
Byline: Amy Nordrum
Body
Feb 18, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Scott A. 
Johnson was still at work in Nome, Alaska on Tuesday, but his pregnant wife had already left for Anchorage where 
they plan to have their baby in just a few weeks. In the time before the delivery, he plans to talk with her every night 
on Skype. The heartwarming scene would be fairly mundane in most of the United States, but as recently as two 
years ago, these conversations were impossible due to a lack of broadband connectivity that still persists 
throughout much of rural America.<nl/>
 Instead of enjoying high-speed Internet access, the Johnsons had long relied on satellites to beam down the 
Internet, but the service was expensive and inconsistent. His Internet used to sputter at just shy of two megabits per 
second (Mbps), meaning it would take six to eight hours to download a movie. The Federal Communications 
Commission recommends access to a minimum[1] of 25 Mbps for downloads and 3 Mbps for uploads. At those 
speeds the same movie would take thirty minutes to download.<nl/> The problem with Nome--and a broad swath of 
western Alaska--is that no company has ever thought it profitable to install the fiber optic cables or microwave 
towers to connect the region with broadband services. Some villages in the area boast only a few dozen residents 
and settlements can be strewn across hundreds of miles. Residents have traded data on flash drives or by fax long 
after most Americans have moved online. <nl/> The digital divide--that gap which exists between the haves and 
have-nots of high-speed broadband Internet access--still plagues much of rural America, though it may be most 
pronounced in the far north. In the U.S., despite the FCC's $7.2 billion in spending since 2009 to expand broadband 
to rural communities, 53 percent of rural Americans[2] still lack access to the agency's recommended levels of 
broadband. Meanwhile, just 8 percent of Americans who live in cities are missing out. In Alaska, about 8 percent of 
households and 9 percent of businesses are left without it, according to a state report published last fall.[3]<nl/> 
With the aid of federal stimulus funding, though, General Communication Inc. (GCI) has spent the past five years 
quietly building a massive broadband network to serve some of the most isolated places in Alaska -- at times 
looping in villages of no more than 100 residents. The ongoing project, called Terra for Terrestrial for Every Rural 
Region in Alaska, has already linked up 49,000 residents in 72 communities via a system of 79 microwave towers 
and more than 400 miles of fiber optic cable.<nl/> 'Just like the electrification of rural America, this is the 
connectivity of rural Alaska,' Bob Walsh, director of rural broadband for GCI, says.<nl/> As for Johnson in Nome, 
Terra arrived in late 2013. Today, he can access the Internet[4] at a rate of about 6 Mbps. 'It's a night and day 
difference,' he says while disclosing that he once appeared in a commercial for the project. He's not just using the 
access to Skype with family, either -- this summer, he will begin his master's degree in business administration 
Remote Alaskans Finally Get Broadband
through the University of Alaska's distance learning program. <nl/> The state and federal government expect to see 
real returns as GCI brings people like Johnson online. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Utilities Service 
gave the company a $44 million loan plus a $44 million grant [5]in 2010 to partly cover the costs of Terra's $200 
million price tag. All together, that investment breaks down to about $41 for every resident that the project brings 
online. 'Broadband is a key element of the 21st century in terms of government services, competitiveness, 
entrepreneurship and the ability to develop our economy,' Bill Popp, CEO of Anchorage Economic Development 
Corporation, says. 'If I've got a strong and growing rural part of Alaska, Anchorage prospers.'<nl/> Popp is awaiting 
the results of a study led by Heather Hudson, an expert on rural development at University of Alaska Fairbanks, on 
the economic impact of the Terra project on rural Alaska. In the meantime, he and Walsh are hearing anecdotes 
from people like Johnson that lead them to believe big changes are in store as the state's rural communities come 
online.<nl/> The state's broadband report shows that businesses hooked up to a network generate an average of 
$200,000 more in annual revenue than those that lack access. In Bethel, residents host an annual contest [6]with a 
cash prize for startups and have started to see more web-based entries since Terra came to town, Walsh says. 
Ryan Air, an airline that exclusively serves rural communities in Alaska, has had an easier time scheduling flights 
since the network was installed. The company estimates that it has received a 250 percent return-on-investment[7] 
for hardware and software it has purchased to take advantage of the upgraded Internet.<nl/> Before Terra, Norton 
Sound Health Corporation, a tribally-owned nonprofit health care organization in Nome, had wanted to transition to 
an electronic system for heath records. A hospital in Bethel had installed a system for $25 million, including extra 
measures the hospital took to ensure the system would work on their weak satellite Internet connection. Norton's 
chief information officer, a man named TwoSixTwo FiveOneZeroZero (who goes by TwoSix) had his eyes on the 
very same system, but was able to purchase a more basic version for only $5 million after Terra came to town. 
<nl/> 'Unwittingly, we saved $20 million by being able to access microwave and fiber connections,' he says. 'Now, a 
medical record can follow patients from Little Diomede to Anchorage hospitals.' His service at the hospital has 
improved from about 15 Mbps to 85 Mbps.<nl/> TwoSix says the rates for Internet service have also raised 
'considerably' but it's a cost that he is more than willing to accept for the boost in service. Johnson says his 
household service rates in Nome have stayed about the same as before. <nl/> It's unclear whether Terra's success 
could be replicated in other parts of the country where broadband is still lacking. The burden of bringing 
infrastructure to the furthest reaches of Alaska remains prohibitively high for companies, and a project of this scale 
probably would never have happened without public investment, Popp says. Even with the government's initial 
investment, GCI must now maintain the vast network -- which includes flying to each of the 79 microwave towers to 
drop off fuel for their generators each summer.<nl/> There's no doubt, however, that residents are eager to hook 
into Terra and enjoy their newfound access, long after the rest of the country has forgotten what it was like to ever 
live without high-speed Internet. 'There are nine communities in the Bethel region that went on [to Terra] and one of 
the pilots flying in that region said all of a sudden, we saw a marked increase in Amazon boxes going out,' Walsh 
says. 'We don't want to build the network that's the highest downloader of Netflix, but you see that in the first couple 
months.'<nl/> 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.fcc.gov/reports/2015-broadband-progress-report 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.fcc.gov/reports/2015-broadband-progress-report 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.alaska.edu/files/oit/bbtaskforce/2013-08-AK-Broadband-Task-Force-Report%7CA-Blueprint-for-
Alaska%27s-Broadband-Future.pdf [ 4]:            http://consortiumlibrary.org/lists/aklug/archive/2013-11/0018.html [ 
5]:            http://www.benzinga.com/pressreleases/n98791/gci-subsidiary-awarded-88-million-in-federal-broadband-
stimulus-funding [ 6]:            http://bethelculturalcenter.com/best-in-the-west/ [ 7]:            http://terra.gci.com/news-
and-announcements/customer-story-ryan-air-experiences-increased-business-250-roi-from-terra-net 
Load-Date: February 19, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair see rise in bookings from US Ryanair US
Ryanair see rise in bookings from US; Ryanair US
Business World (Digest)
February 17, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 184 words
Highlight: Ryanair today reported record bookings from American customers following the launch of its new United 
States Ryanair website in December.
Body
Ryanair today reported record bookings from American customers following the launch of its new United States 
Ryanair website in December.
The site enables flight bookings to be made in dollars and bookings from the US have increased by almost 50pc in 
the two months since it went live, the airline said.
London Stansted-Dublin is the most popular route for US visitors, followed by Edinburgh-Dublin, Rome-Barcelona, 
Paris-Dublin and Frankfurt Hahn-London Stansted, with the most bookings coming from customers living in 
California, New York, Texas, Florida and New Jersey.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair launched a dedicated American version of the Ryanair.com website to make it 
easier for US customers to book Europe's lowest fares. The response from the USA has been phenomenal, with 
bookings up 50pc and we look forward to carrying thousands more US customers this year, who choose Ryanair for 
our low fares and industry leading customer service, as well as Europe's biggest route network, connecting 189 
destinations, in 30 countries, through over 1,600 routes." For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 20, 2015
End of Document
Ireland clings to its symbolic Heathrow redoubts OPINION
Ireland clings to its symbolic Heathrow redoubts; OPINION
Financial Times (London, England)
February 17, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMMENT; Pg. 9
Length: 652 words
Byline: Peter Cunningham
Body
A new sacred cow has landed in the Irish herd. Some matters in Ireland are held to be immutable and beyond 
discussion. These include the Irish language, the Irish mammy, the Catholic Church and the conviction that nuclear 
power is evil. These untouchables have now been joined by the Heathrow slots.
Aer Lingus , for generations Ireland's national airline, owns 23 pairs of slots (one for landing, one for taking off) at 
London's Heathrow airport. But Aer Lingus - not really the national airline any more, since the Irish government 
owns only 25 per cent - is the target of a EUR1.4bn bid from International Airlines Group, parent of British Airways 
and Iberia. If IAG takes over the company, it will own those juicy Heathrow slots.
Or "our" Heathrow slots, as Irish politicians sometimes call them. This valuable Irish redoubt in the aviation capital 
of our former colonist has become a serious political stumbling block to the IAG bid . Just as retaining Calais, 
England's last remaining possession in France in the Tudor era, was a source of fierce national pride, so too the 
thought of losing this toehold in Britain's busiest airport may be more than Irish pride can tolerate.
Retaining the Heathrow slots to ensure Irish "connectivity" is the bottom line for Enda Kenny as the Irish taoiseach 
goes into countdown for a general election. "I'm worried, concerned about the future of the country [without control 
of the Heathrow slots]", he said recently, adding that he would require a "permanent cast-iron guarantee" from IAG 
that the Heathrow to Ireland connection would remain intact.
Ireland clings to its symbolic Heathrow redoubts OPINION
Such anxiety, shared at regional level by Cork and Shannon airports, is rooted in the fear that Ireland will be cut off 
from international connections if Aer Lingus's new owners find better uses for the Heathrow slots than flights to 
Ireland. The fact that numerous daily flights connect Ireland to destinations other than Heathrow does not seem to 
matter to Mr Kenny. Nor does the fact that the Dublin-Heathrow route, one of the world's busiest, would be 
attractive to other airlines. He wants those slots to remain dedicated to Ireland.
Mr Kenny's demand is "hysterical nonsense", says Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, which owns nearly 
30 per cent of its smaller Irish rival. He has urged Dublin to stop "faffing about" with its 25 per cent shareholding and 
to support a strategy that will expand Aer Lingus. Ryanair - which spent more than EUR400m on its Aer Lingus 
stake between 2006 and 2008, but has been blocked from an outright takeover by antitrust regulators - will recoup 
most of its original investment if the IAG bid goes through. Mr O'Leary claims that if Aer Lingus remains 
independent it will "wither on the vine".
In a country where memory is long, an added twist to the saga involves Willie Walsh , the Irish IAG boss. In 2004 
the former pilot, who had risen through the ranks to become Aer Lingus chief executive, asked Dublin to allow a 
management buyout offer. Bertie Ahern, then taoiseach, accused Mr Walsh of trying to "steal" the airline, at that 
time 85 per cent owned by the state. Mr Walsh took off for British Airways, and Aer Lingus was floated in 2006. 
Although Mr Ahern later softened his remarks, lingering suspicions remain in some quarters over Mr Walsh's 
motives.
These suspicions may have gained altitude in the past week when it was reported that SAS, the Scandinavian 
airline, had sold one solitary Heathrow slot pair for a reputed $60m. By some estimates, this deal makes the Aer 
Lingus Heathrow slots worth EUR1.2bn - not too far off Mr Walsh's overall bid. When Aer Lingus's EUR400m net 
cash is considered, and since next year is the centenary of the 1916 Easter Rising, Irish politicians may be inclined, 
for the time being, to try and hold on to this tiny but symbolic outpost in the heartland of the old enemy.
The writer is the author of bestselling novel 'The Taoiseach'
Load-Date: February 16, 2015
End of Document
Airlines scramble for in-flight WiFi Flight WiFi
Airlines scramble for in-flight WiFi; Flight WiFi
Business World (Digest)
February 16, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 657 words
Highlight: Europe's airlines are racing to add Wi-Fi to their planes, eager to attract Internet-hungry customers in a 
cut-throat short-haul market and potentially add revenue through entertainment, services and advertising.
Body
Europe's airlines are racing to add Wi-Fi to their planes, eager to attract Internet-hungry customers in a cut-throat 
short-haul market and potentially add revenue through entertainment, services and advertising.
U.S. airline passengers already have a chance of accessing Wi-Fi on 66 percent of miles flown, against a worldwide 
average of 24 percent, according to data from Routehappy, which rates flights worldwide on amenities such as 
seats and entertainment.
In Europe, adoption of a ground-to-air service such as that in the United States, is harder due to the number of 
countries in the region, while satellite-based services have been too costly for short flights.
But with more satellites being sent up, bringing costs down, and airlines more aware of the money-making 
possibilities, price is no longer such a stumbling block, industry watchers say. Lufthansa, Air France-KLM, Ryanair 
and Vueling are some of the major European carriers looking at on-board Wi-Fi on short-haul flights, following low-
cost carrier Norwegian, which offers it for free on 74 of its 76 Boeing 737s. As well as potentially charging 
passengers to stream TV shows and music on their mobile devices during flights of a couple of hours or less, 
airlines can use onboard connectivity to offer restaurant bookings, shopping or hotel offers in conjunction with 
advertisers and partners. "Nowhere else in the world do you get that captive audience where you know everything 
about the people that got on the plane and what kind of advertisements you should offer them," said Robin Cole, 
Vice-President Global Business Development at Global Eagle Entertainment, which provides satellite-based Wi-Fi 
for airlines Norwegian and Southwest. Global Eagle is due to trial a fee-paying system on two Air France A320s this 
summer in conjunction with mobile firm Orange, and believes the retail and sponsorship opportunities of onboard 
Wi-Fi could boost industry revenues by hundreds of millions of dollars a year. The revenue opportunities are 
attracting attention across the European industry, with low-cost carriers particularly quick to move, said AT Kearney 
consultant Rene Steinhaus. "There's a huge logic to having Wi-Fi on board, even in Europe," he said. Ryanair will 
Airlines scramble for in-flight WiFi Flight WiFi
use advertising or other revenue streams to ensure Wi-Fi access doesn't add to its costs, CEO Michael O'Leary 
said, adding it had begun talks with mobile phone companies over charges, and with technical companies over 
fitting the lightest possible aerials for the lowest cost. In the United States, moves by low-cost carriers such as 
JetBlue to offer basic onboard Wi-Fi services for free were putting pressure on mainline carriers, Routehappy data 
research manager Jason Rabinowitz said. Britain's Inmarsat, which partners with Honeywell to offer Internet 
onboard using its satellites and the U.S. company's hardware, currently has over a 9 percent share of the 
commercial cabin connectivity market. "It's growing faster than anything else in the space that I can think of. Almost 
every airline in the world is asking about it right now," Jeff Sare, Inmarsat's vice president for Airline Market 
Development, told Reuters. Another company that stands to gain is Panasonic-owned AeroMobile, which provides 
mobile coverage within the aircraft via satellite for a fee that appears on a customer's usual mobile bill. Marketing 
and revenue development director Jack Gordon said it expected to announce a deal with a major European short-
haul carrier this year. Lufthansa Systems, whose BoardConnect platform provides in-flight entertainment and 
connectivity on shorter flights, expects airlines will have to offer Internet onboard within the next two to four years. 
"Costs for data transfer are falling rapidly and customers are putting pressure on airlines," said Norbert Mueller, 
head of BoardConnect. "Wireless Internet has become something of a basic need." (Reuters) For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 19, 2015
End of Document
Europe's Airlines Race for Wi-Fi in Battle for Flyers, Profits
Europe's Airlines Race for Wi-Fi in Battle for Flyers, Profits
Newstex Blogs
Voice of America
February 16, 2015 Monday 6:48 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 637 words
Body
Feb 16, 2015( Voice of America: http://www.voanews.com Delivered by Newstex) ; Europe's airlines are racing to 
add Wi-Fi to their planes, eager to attract Internet-hungry customers in a cut-throat short-haul market and 
potentially add millions of dollars of revenue through entertainment, services and advertising. U.S. airline 
passengers already have a chance of accessing Wi-Fi on 66 percent of miles flown, against a worldwide average of 
24 percent, according to data from Routehappy, which rates flights worldwide on amenities such as seats and 
entertainment.
 In Europe, adoption of a ground-to-air service such as that in the United States, is harder due to the number of 
countries in the region, while satellite-based services have been too costly for short flights. But with more satellites 
being sent up, bringing costs down, and airlines more aware of the money-making possibilities, price is no longer 
such a stumbling block, industry watchers say. Lufthansa, Air France-KLM, Ryanair and Vueling are some of the 
major European carriers looking at on-board Wi-Fi on short-haul flights, following low-cost carrier Norwegian, which 
offers it for free on 74 of its 76 Boeing 737s. As well as potentially charging passengers to stream TV shows and 
music on their mobile devices during flights of a couple of hours or less, airlines can use onboard connectivity to 
offer restaurant bookings, shopping or hotel offers in conjunction with advertisers and partners. 'Nowhere else in the 
world do you get that captive audience where you know everything about the people that got on the plane and what 
kind of advertisements you should offer them,' said Robin Cole, Vice-President Global Business Development at 
Global Eagle Entertainment, which provides satellite-based Wi-Fi for airlines Norwegian and Southwest. Global 
Eagle is due to trial a fee-paying system on two Air France A320s this summer in conjunction with mobile firm 
Orange, and believes the retail and sponsorship opportunities of onboard Wi-Fi could boost industry revenues by 
hundreds of millions of dollars a year. Becoming basic need The revenue opportunities are attracting attention 
across the European industry, with low-cost carriers particularly quick to move, said AT Kearney consultant Rene 
Steinhaus. 'There's a huge logic to having Wi-Fi on board, even in Europe,' he said. Ryanair will use advertising or 
other revenue streams to ensure Wi-Fi access doesn't add to its costs, CEO Michael O'Leary said, adding it had 
begun talks with mobile phone companies over charges, and with technical companies over fitting the lightest 
possible aerials for the lowest cost. In the United States, moves by low-cost carriers such as JetBlue to offer basic 
onboard Wi-Fi services for free were putting pressure on mainline carriers, Routehappy data research manager 
Jason Rabinowitz said. Britain's Inmarsat, which partners with Honeywell to offer Internet onboard using its 
satellites and the U.S. company's hardware, currently has over a 9 percent share of the commercial cabin 
connectivity market. 'It's growing faster than anything else in the space that I can think of. Almost every airline in the 
world is asking about it right now,' Jeff Sare, Inmarsat's vice president for Airline Market Development, told Reuters. 
Europe's Airlines Race for Wi-Fi in Battle for Flyers, Profits
Another company that stands to gain is Panasonic-owned AeroMobile, which provides mobile coverage within the 
aircraft via satellite for a fee that appears on a customer's usual mobile bill. Marketing and revenue development 
director Jack Gordon said it expected to announce a deal with a major European short-haul carrier this year. 
Lufthansa Systems, whose BoardConnect platform provides in-flight entertainment and connectivity on shorter 
flights, expects airlines will have to offer Internet onboard within the next two to four years. 
Load-Date: February 16, 2015
End of Document
Fifty shades of green
Fifty shades of green
Sunday Business Post
February 15, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 1038 words
Body
Irish politicians were almost unanimously delighted to abandon our national currency and join a currency of 
countries with which we do modest trade and with whom we have almost no traditional demographic links. These 
same politicians appear to be unwilling to sell their bit of our national airline to the one carrier that makes 
commercial sense.
Why is this?
Why would you wholeheartedly give away the currency - which affects everyone's lives profoundly - to Germany, 
yet fight tooth and nail for a national carrier because it is being bought by a British carrier? This despite the fact that 
Britain is our most significant economic, social and cultural partner and Irish visits to Britain and vice versa are the 
single biggest source of air traffic?
Would there be a similar level of local opposition if the buyer were German? Just asking!
If Aer Lingus is to be sold to anyone, we all know that BA is the obvious partner.
Don't get me wrong: I love flying Aer Lingus and I get a real feeling of coming home when I fly back to the country 
on Aer Lingus. For years, Aer Lingus was, in my head anyway, synonymous with home. It still is, but given what is 
happening to the global airline business, it is hard to see the future for the company without the significant balance 
sheet, access to cash and access to routes of another bigger carrier. That is just the way the airline business is 
going.
Maybe the best way to safeguard Aer Lingus is to sell it.
Before I come back to that substantive point about the future of the airline and the trends in the airline business, it 
might be worthwhile addressing briefly the concept of the 'national interest'.
Fifty shades of green
For some 1950s reason, airlines are the property of the national project. By this I mean that in many people's 
imaginations, proper countries have national airlines - yet, given the way we embrace Ryanair, we like the idea of a 
national carrier but are quite happy to fly with anyone! Patriotism alone isn't enough to secure Aer Lingus's future.
We don't think this way about cars, or trains, or even shipping.
National airlines are an industrial fetish, a bit like the economic equivalent of Fifty Shades of Grey.
The plain vanilla commercial reality is that, unfortunately, it is not who owns them that determines whether they 
thrive or not, but how many choose to travel with them.
So the national interest is whether the airline has a solid future.
Think about it from another perspective. Many people continue to argue that    we need links to the outside world   
and therefore having a domestically-owned, or at least part domestically-owned, national carrier is essential.
Why should this be?
Has it ever crossed your mind that Ireland became an exporting and trading phenomenon without a national 
shipping company, yet the vast majority of our trade goes by sea?
This is because we don't need the hyper-nativist approach to transport or economics. Many shipping companies 
use our ports. They are competitive, they do the job and do you have any idea what they are called? Do you care? 
The same goes for air transport. You don't need a government-controlled airline to be a normal country plugged into 
the world; nor do you need a government-controlled shipping company to be a trading economy.
Once we appreciate this fact, it's easier to see what is in the best interest of Aer Lingus, the company and its staff. 
The single best underwriter of Aer Lingus will be the number of passengers.
We have seen unambiguously that people are travelling in a totally different way these days. The main beneficiaries 
in Europe are the low-cost airlines. Even today, people think of Ryanair as the upstart and Aer Lingus as the 
incumbent, and yet Ryanair will carry 90 million passengers to Aer Lingus's nine million. The upstart is ten times 
bigger than the old hand.
Even BA, a company indelibly linked with British air travel, is only the third biggest carrier in Britain, behind Easyjet 
and Ryanair. In fact, Ryanair's ambition is to grow to 150 million passengers by 2020 and next year to knock 
Easyjet off its number one perch across the water. Ryanair is three times bigger than BA and 30 per cent bigger 
than German giant Lufthansa.
If you look around Europe, you see that low-cost airlines are the only ones really growing in Europe. What this tells 
us is that the low-cost model of airline travel is winning. Ryanair has spawned copycat airlines such as Norwegian, 
Pegasus Airways, Wings and Wizz, all challenging conventional carriers. The future of mass-market air travel in 
Europe is low cost. And the trick the low-cost carriers stumbled upon is a bit of consumer psychology that we never 
thought about: people don't so much travel to destinations as travel at a price - and if you make the price low 
enough, people will take a chance.
What does Aer Lingus do in this context?
It is a small carrier much like SAS, LOT and Finnair. Its growth is constrained by the national market. The national 
markets are not growing in the mid-price section and the national populations aren't growing either. Therefore, it 
has to figure out another strategy.
The smaller national airlines above all talk about having an Asian strategy - tapping into the only mid-priced market 
that is growing, namely Asia, by flying Asians to and from Europe using their national airports as hubs. This seems 
to be a pretty crowded market and it also strikes me as a 'me too' strategy.
Fifty shades of green
Looking at Aer Lingus, for years the idea was that Aer Lingus would use its slots at Heathrow to propel Irish people 
out into the great world. However, Heathrow isn't the only hub in the world. There are plenty of others. In fact, tying 
Irish travellers to Heathrow because you want to preserve the ownership structure of the company is strange bit of 
logic.
This is made all the more odd when you think that the company that wants to buy Aer Lingus is BA, the dominant 
player in Heathrow. As long as the routes are busy, where's the problem? Aer Lingus is also being promised by BA 
that nothing will happen to the slots for five years. Would another suitor promise this?
Then, you think, if it is unlikely that Aer Lingus remains on its own for long, who would be a better suitor? Maybe 
there is one, but it doesn't look like that to me.
Load-Date: February 16, 2015
End of Document
The Aer Lingus takeover bid: rhetoric versus reality
The Aer Lingus takeover bid: rhetoric versus reality
Sunday Business Post
February 15, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1161 words
Body
**The jobs**
One of the prime fears among Irish people - not least that constituency of people who live and work in north Dublin, 
either directly for Aer Lingus or at the airport itself - are concerns about the impact a takeover will have on jobs. 
Perhaps, the logic goes, if the sale of Aer Lingus is blocked, jobs can be saved.
That's simply not going to happen. Aer Lingus's departing chief executive Christoph Mueller has already announced 
that the company is seeking voluntary redundancies from its nearly 4,000-strong workforce as part of an already 
agreed restructuring plan. Whether IAG takes Aer Lingus over or not, jobs will be lost.
Part of the problem is that Aer Lingus has a large staff - the same today as it was in 2009 - and it is considerably 
less efficient than some of its competitors. According to some figures, per head, each Aer Lingus staff member 
handles an average of 2,660 passengers a year. That figure in Ryanair is roughly 9,000 passengers a year, while at 
EasyJet the number is over 7,000 a year.
Walsh has been pretty clear, too, that jobs will be lost should IAG take over. While he rubbished suggestions that 
between 1,000 and 1,200 positions would be cut, he did concede jobs would be shed.
To counter that, he suggested that any cuts would be more than compensated for by the creation of at least 500 
new jobs by IAG in Dublin.
**The slots**
Perhaps one of the most feverishly debated aspects of the deal is the value attributed to the so-called landing slots 
at Heathrow. There is a lot of misunderstanding about the slots, not least how they're valued.
Earlier this month, it was reported that Aer Lingus's slots could be valued at EUR 1.2 billion based on the sale of 
one slot for $60 million (EUR 53 million) by SAS.
The Aer Lingus takeover bid: rhetoric versus reality
Walsh scotched the notion this week that every slot was therefore worth that amount.    A price you get for one 
individual slot does not translate into what you would get for a bunch of them,   he said.    If you could get $60 
million for every slot at Heathrow, you'd have a lot of people selling slots. Most slots in Heathrow trade for 
significantly less than that.  
Perhaps most importantly, the Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport, Paschal Donohoe, has already pointed 
out that the state has no control over the slots anyway.
He went to great lengths to outline just how powerless the government would be to stop Aer Lingus from selling the 
slots, even if it remained independent.
To block the sale of any slots, he said, the government would need the support of at least another 5 per cent of 
shareholders. Moreover, IAG has been very explicit that it is giving a legally binding agreement that the Heathrow 
slots will never been sold if the Irish government doesn't agree to it, as well as a five-year guarantee on how they'll 
be used.
**The windfall**
One of the mooted benefits of the deal for the Irish state has been the windfall from the sale of the final chunk of 
Aer Lingus. Twenty-five per cent of a potentially EUR 1.3 billion deal is no small matter, the thinking goes. Surely 
that could go some way to swelling the nation's needy coffers?
Unfortunately, it's not true. The government's stake in Aer Lingus is already valued as an asset on the country's 
balance sheet. The sale will merely turn that from an unrealised to a realised asset - from shares with a particular 
value into cash.
And the shares are valued at close to market rates too. At present, they sit on the government's books at roughly 
EUR 300 million. IAG's bid, at EUR 2.50 per share, values the state's holding at about EUR 335 million. In short, the 
state's coffers would in real terms be boosted by only about EUR 40 million.
**The other buyers**
The truth is, Aer Lingus is a difficult sell. Just ask Ryanair, which tried and failed, or Goldman Sachs, which was 
hired by Aer Lingus to find a buyer and failed. Meanwhile, there aren't too many buyers. EasyJet has been 
suggested, though Carolyn McCall has stated she has no interest in long-haul business, while Etihad - which 
already has a small shareholding in Aer Lingus - is restricted in how much of any European carrier it can buy. The 
airline business is a small one, and there aren't too many other options on the horizon, according to experts.
**The third 'bid'**
The third indicative offer was, in fact, no measurable improvement on the second. The truth is, while the nominal 
value of the bid has gone up by 15 cent from the second bid, for IAG it wasn't going to cost them any more.
For that, they can thank - at least partially - ECB president Mario Draghi, whose trillion-euro scheme of quantitative 
easing has pushed down the value of the euro. This means that IAG was able to raise its offer, and the status of its 
efforts to buy Aer Lingus, at no additional cost.
A simple calculation shows that on the day of the second bid, the EUR 2.40 offer for Aer Lingus would have cost 
IAG £1.88. When it submitted the third bid - with a share price offer of EUR 2.50 plus a 5 cent dividend - it would 
have cost IAG just £1.87. The additional 5 cent in that offer would actually come from Aer Lingus's own cash 
reserves.
**The pension problem**
The Aer Lingus takeover bid: rhetoric versus reality
The common consensus is that as soon as the pension issue was resolved, Aer Lingus came into play. The truth is, 
however, while the pension issue has been resolved for Aer Lingus, a large chunk of the pensioners feel like it is 
not sorted.
The shareholders voted in favour of the restructuring plan, which saw EUR 190.7 million injected into the company's 
ailing defined contribution pension plan.
And while it benefited around two-thirds of the 15,000 members - specifically the active and deferred members - the 
sizeable chunk of pensioners who saw hefty cuts to their benefits, in some cases in the order of 12 weeks' worth of 
their annual pension payments, were outraged.
As a consequence, earlier this month a group of disgruntled pensioners in an organisation known as RASA (Retired 
Aviation Staff Association) announced that it was going to proceed with a legal challenge to the restructuring of a 
pension scheme. It's unclear yet just what grounds the action will be taken on, but it's a warning sign for Willie 
Walsh and IAG, or anyone else who wants to buy Aer Lingus.
**The timeline**
Perhaps the most pervasive myth is that the deal can be wrapped up swiftly. The truth is, this could drag out for 
quite some time. IAG is still carrying out its due diligence and the board is still in favour of it.
In fact, just on Friday, it told the markets that    the board continues to believe that the financial terms . . . are in the 
best interests of Aer Lingus' shareholders.  
It's likely to take another two weeks for that to be completed, after which any formal bid would trigger a 30-day 
pause for shareholders to consider the bid.
It would also go to the competition authority, who could take up to seven weeks to investigate the deal, and that's 
without factoring in further political delays.
In aviation terms, this is a long-haul flight.
Load-Date: February 16, 2015
End of Document
Ryan's philanthropy flew under the radar
Ryan's philanthropy flew under the radar
Sunday Business Post
February 15, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 927 words
Body
The One Foundation, an active philanthropy fund backed by aviation entrepreneur Declan Ryan, invested EUR 85 
million in charities in Ireland and Vietnam over ten years from 2004.
Ryan's philanthropy took place largely under the radar, with the One Foundation closing without fanfare at the end 
of 2013. It published its final report online some months ago without any publicity.
The report prepared by the One Foundation on its winding-up reveals for the first time not only the scale of Ryan's 
giving, but also the reasons why the son of Ryanair founder Tony Ryan decided to give a substantial part of his 
fortune away.
The 22 non-profit organisations helped by the One Foundation work in its target areas of disadvantaged children 
and families, youth mental health, integration of refugees and migrants and social entrepreneurship.
In a foreword to One's report Declan Ryan, who has helped create new low fares airlines in Asia, Central America, 
North America and Europe, gives a rare insight into why he decided to give his time and fortune to the One 
Foundation.
   My personal journey has been both humbling and exciting,   he wrote.    Humbling because I became aware that 
there are so many do-gooders in our Irish society, and so in a sense, to become one isn't such an exceptional thing.
   Most exciting and most important for me, however, has been to witness the social impact achieved by One, which 
has been greater than I ever could have imagined. Of course we made more than a few mistakes along the way. 
Yet what has been achieved for young people here in Ireland and Vietnam was and, I hope, will continue to be, 
significant.  
The One Foundation lists six main things it believes it achieved with its grantees and partners in its report. These 
include:
Ryan's philanthropy flew under the radar
-- Secured children's rights in the Irish constitution.
-- Developed and scaled new models of working on youth mental health, family support services and youth 
services.
-- Fostered new fields in Ireland like social entrepreneurship.
According to the report, Ryan decided to set up One in 2003 just before he turned 40 in order to ensure his children 
did not    grow up inheriting a lot of money, and assuming that they would never have to work  .
He decided that giving a    significant portion   of his fortune away was the    right thing for him to do and he wanted 
to do it as soon as possible  . Ryan was inspired by Irish-American philanthropist Chuck Feeney and Scottish-
American industrialist Andrew Carnegie, who believed that    a man who dies rich, dies disgraced  .
Ryan co-founded One with Deirdre Mortell, then a fundraising lead with Barnardos Ireland, where he was a board 
member. Mortell joined One, which is named after a U2 song, when Ryan agreed that the foundation would provide    
high quality money   to allow charities improve and scale up their operations.
The One Foundation pursued an active approach to philanthropy and used some of the methods used by venture 
capitalists, pioneered by New Profit Inc in America.
The techniques used included high engagement and performance management, which are common in venture 
capital, to improve how non-profits used their funding and prepared detailed business plans for their future.
Ryan concluded his foreword by thanking all the people who worked with the One Foundation over the previous 
decade.    Forget about those who will try to be obstructive, who are cynical, and who say that what you are doing 
will make no difference, or that things can't change,   he said.    Always remember that for so many vulnerable 
people, your daily efforts are vital and bring them much needed hope.  
......
**How Ryan's One Foundation spent EUR 85m**
In total, the One Foundation invested over EUR 10 million in two organisations, EUR 5 million in five different non-
profits, and over EUR 1 million in 20 other groups, as well as making many smaller grants.
Its final report does not break out exactly how it spent every euro but it does give a broad sense of how it impacted 
a huge number of different areas, from helping established charities like Barnardos to seed-funding new 
organisations like Social Entrepreneurs Ireland.
The report says it spent EUR 15 million on advocacy work and invested EUR 5.4 million supporting 169 social 
entrepreneurs. In total it spent EUR 12.5 million in the area of social enterprise in Ireland and Vietnam.
It spent EUR 28 million in the area of youth mental health. It helped BeLonGTo Youth Services expand its network 
of support for young lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, and assisted the expansion of a youth 
mentoring programme run by youth charity Foroige.
The report states that One spent EUR 14 million in the area of children and families. It worked with five non-profits 
in that area, including Barnardos, the Children's Rights Alliance and Alcohol Action Ireland. It said the passing of 
the Children's Rights referendum in 2012 was one of its major campaigns.
In the area of integration it said it spent EUR 17.4 million with seven non-profit partners including Educate Together 
and the Migrant Rights Centre.
Ryan's philanthropy flew under the radar
Its report states that its biggest spending day was on October 14, 2009, when its board agreed to invest a total of 
EUR 8.9 million in Foroige, as well as Educate Together, the multi-denominational and co-educational schools 
charity.
One Foundation also supported scholarship funding for 43 young people from countries in Africa, Asia and the 
Middle East. It also gave ten Captain Cathal Ryan scholarship awards worth EUR 25,000 each to support further 
education and personal development.
Load-Date: February 16, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus board backs EUR1.4bn takeover by IAG Travel & leisure
Aer Lingus board backs EUR1.4bn takeover by IAG; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
February 14, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 17
Length: 435 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
The board of Aer Lingus has issued a resounding recommendation of the EUR1.4bn takeover bid by International 
Airlines Group, piling pressure on the Irish government to back the deal despite disquiet among some Irish 
politicians.
Colm Barrington , chairman of Aer Lingus, said yesterday the board was convinced after meetings with IAG that the 
Irish flag carrier could keep expanding as part of the bigger UK-listed group, which is led by Irishman Willie Walsh 
and includes British Airways and Iberia.
"The board's view is therefore that a combination of Aer Lingus with IAG has a compelling strategic rationale and 
will deliver significant benefits for Aer Lingus, its employees, its customers and for Ireland," Mr Barrington said.
His statement came a day after Mr Walsh held discussions in Dublin with an Irish government panel reviewing 
IAG's offer for Aer Lingus, and with a committee of MPs , some of whom are opposed to any sale of the Irish state's 
25 per cent stake in Aer Lingus.
Mr Walsh sought to reassure the MPs that Aer Lingus would continue to use its 23 take-off and landing slots at 
London's Heathrow airport for flights to and from Ireland, including Cork and Shannon. The fate of the Heathrow 
slots is central to some Irish politicians' objections to the disposal of the state's stake.
Aer Lingus board backs EUR1.4bn takeover by IAG Travel & leisure
Mr Barrington said Aer Lingus's connections to Heathrow would benefit from the greater sales and marketing clout 
at IAG.
He also maintained that becoming part of IAG would allow Aer Lingus to create more jobs, boost transatlantic traffic 
and strengthen Ireland's "connectivity" to the rest of the world.
The Aer Lingus board said last month that IAG's approach, pitched at EUR2.50 a share with a EUR0.05 dividend, 
was at a level it could potentially recommend to its shareholders, subject to various issues being resolved 
satisfactorily. As well as the Irish state, the shareholders include Ryanair, with a near 30 per cent stake, and Etihad 
Airways, which owns 5 per cent of the Irish carrier.
The statement makes an unequivocal recommendation of IAG's bid. Analysts said that with the IAG attempt to buy 
Aer Lingus now being backed by the Irish carrier's board, tourism chiefs and a number of industry bodies, it would 
be difficult for the government to block a deal or insist on maintaining the state's stake.
However, the government has yet to make a decision on its stance, and may delay doing so until a formal offer by 
IAG for Aer Lingus is made and after EU competition regulators have given their view.
IAG's shares were down 1 per cent at 555p yesterday, and Aer Lingus's shares fell 2 per cent at EUR2.21.
Load-Date: February 13, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus says it wants to join British Airways parent IAG
Aer Lingus says it wants to join British Airways parent IAG
Associated Press Financial Wire
February 13, 2015 Friday 9:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 476 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Irish airline Aer Lingus says it now strongly favors its acquisition by British Airways parent IAG in a 
statement to shareholders issued Friday.
IAG officials spent two days in Dublin this week lobbying the Irish government, the airline's No. 2 shareholder, to 
part with its 25.1 percent stake in the airline. IAG has stressed it won't proceed with its takeover bid, valuing Aer 
Lingus at 1.36 billion euros ($1.55 billion), unless the government agrees to sell.
Aer Lingus Chairman Colm Barrington said an IAG takeover would allow the airline to grow most strongly on North 
American routes, with Dublin Airport likely to grow as "a natural gateway" for trans-Atlantic travelers.
Barrington said detailed analysis of IAG's Jan. 26 offer of 2.55 euros ($2.90) per share, an improvement on two 
earlier offers, shows that "a combination of Aer Lingus with IAG has a compelling strategic rationale and will deliver 
significant benefits for Aer Lingus, its employees, its customers and for Ireland."
But the airline's share price slid 1.8 percent to close Friday night at 2.21 euros ($2.52) as investors assessed that 
the airline's two biggest shareholders, the government and budget rival Ryanair, have shown little public appetite to 
sell.
The government faces substantial public opposition to any sale of its remaining stake in Aer Lingus, a shamrock-
emblazoned symbol of Irish independence that was floated on the Irish and British stock exchanges in 2006. The 
smaller party in Ireland's coalition government, Labour, is closely tied to labor unions that oppose any dilution of the 
government's hold on the airline.
Looming in the background is Ryanair, Aer Lingus' main Dublin-based competitor on European short-haul routes. 
Ryanair launched three hostile bids for Aer Lingus - all shot down by united opposition from the government, 
European regulators, employee trusts and unions - and today remains its biggest shareholder with a 29.8 percent 
stake.
Aer Lingus says it wants to join British Airways parent IAG
Earlier this week a British court endorsed a United Kingdom competition authority's order to Ryanair to divest itself 
of all but 5 percent of Aer Lingus shares. Ryanair vowed to appeal and says IAG's bid disproves the British 
competition authority's central argument that Ryanair was blocking other takeover suitors. It has declined to 
comment on the IAG bid.
Analysts say some shareholders are holding out in hope that a third bidder emerges, further driving up the sales 
price.
Aer Lingus is considered attractive chiefly because it is the fourth-largest holder of landing slots at Heathrow Airport 
near London, arguably Europe's busiest and most strategic hub. But Ireland also is seen as ideal for funneling 
American traffic through Europe, because the U.S. government prepositions customs and immigration officials at 
Aer Lingus' two primary Irish bases for faster arrivals in the United States.
Load-Date: February 14, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus release statement Aviation
Aer Lingus release statement; Aviation
Business World (Digest)
February 13, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 351 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus have today released a statement today on the potential AIG takeover.
Body
Aer Lingus have today released a
statement today on the potential AIG
takeover.
In a press release issued today, it said
that on 27 January 2015, the Board of Directors of Aer Lingus had indicated to IAG that the financial terms of IAG's 
proposal, valuing each Aer Lingus share at 2.55 euro (comprising a cash offer of 2.50 euro and a dividend of 0.05 
euro per share) were at a level that the Board would be willing to recommend, subject to being satisfied with the 
manner in which IAG proposed to address the interests of relevant parties. It states that the Board continues to 
believe that the financial terms of the Revised Proposal are in the best interests of Aer Lingus' shareholders. 
Futhermore, it reiterates that IAG's proposal can enable Ireland to become a central hub for European traffic across 
the Atlantic resulting in better utilisation of the infrastructural investment that has taken place at Irish airports. 
Additionally, the press release states that Aer Lingus sees the potential for its planned growth in transatlantic traffic 
to be significantly accelerated and for new US destinations to be added to its network. Aer Lingus Chairman, Colm 
Barrington said: "The strong view of the Board of Aer Lingus is that the prospect of Aer Lingus being part of the IAG 
Group has a compelling commercial logic for Aer Lingus, has significantly positive benefits for Ireland and is 
strongly supportive of the Irish Government's two airline policy. Following a combination with IAG, Aer Lingus will 
have a markedly greater number of more attractive growth options that will significantly benefit the Company, its 
employees, its customers, the tourism sector, Irish business and industry and the airports at which Aer Lingus 
operates and Ireland." The Revised Proposal remains conditional on, amongst other things, confirmatory due 
diligence, the recommendation of the Board of Aer Lingus and the receipt of irrevocable commitments from Ryanair 
Aer Lingus release statement Aviation
Limited and the Minister for Finance of Ireland to accept the offer, all of which may be waived in whole or in part by 
IAG. For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 18, 2015
End of Document
Irish MPs grill Walsh over Heathrow landing slots Travel & leisure: Aer Lingus bid
Irish MPs grill Walsh over Heathrow landing slots; Travel & leisure: Aer 
Lingus bid
Financial Times (London, England)
February 13, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 23
Length: 582 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin and Jane Wild in London
Highlight: IAG chief guarantees London flights for five years if EUR1.35bn approach were to go through
Body
A commitment by International Airlines Group to allow Aer Lingus to use its take off and landing slots at London's 
Heathrow airport for flights to Ireland cannot be extended beyond five years, Willie Walsh , IAG's chief executive, 
said yesterday.
During a two-and-a-half hour grilling by Irish MPs about IAG's EUR1.35bn bid for Aer Lingus, Mr Walsh said he was 
ready to offer "a legal cast iron guarantee wrapped in concrete" that the Dublin-based carrier's 23 pairs of slots at 
Heathrow would be used for Irish flights for five years.
But he said he was not prepared to extend the timeframe to allay political concerns in Ireland that could yet see the 
Irish government refuse to back IAG's offer to buy Aer Lingus.
Mr Walsh said IAG was seeking an irrevocable commitment from the government to back its offer for the takeover 
to succeed. But, he added: "Don't believe that because I make a proposal that I am ready to improve it. I can tell 
you for definite that I am not prepared to increase it."
In a two-day blitz of meetings in Ireland with politicians, officials and the media, Mr Walsh has been seeking to ease 
concerns about continued access to Heathrow in the event of IAG buying Aer Lingus.
Irish MPs grill Walsh over Heathrow landing slots Travel & leisure: Aer Lingus bid
Enda Kenny, Ireland's prime minister, said last weekend he wanted "cast iron guarantees" on the future of the Irish 
flag carrier's slots at Heathrow if the government was to support a takeover.
The IAG bid for Aer Lingus, in which the Irish state has a 25 per cent stake, has generated fierce controversy over 
whether the carrier would continue to fly into London from Cork and Shannon. These two politically sensitive 
airports rely on Aer Lingus for a large slice of their business.
After Mr Walsh's appearance before MPs, IAG said it was offering to enhance protections already submitted to the 
Irish government by making a commitment that some of Aer Lingus' Heathrow slots would continue to support 
flights on routes to Cork and Shannon for five years.
Mr Walsh said Ireland "has nothing to fear" from a takeover of Aer Lingus, adding that IAG's offer for the airline was 
"all about growth".
He was speaking after Ryanair vowed to appeal to the UK's highest court after being ordered to sell down its 30 per 
cent stake in Aer Lingus because of competition concerns.
The UK's court of appeal refused Ryanair leave to appeal, but Europe's largest low cost airline by revenue said it 
would continue its fight in Britain's supreme court.
Ryanair said it would also ask the UK competition and markets authority to review its report that ordered the sale of 
its Aer Lingus stake. Ryanair argued the IAG bid for Aer Lingus disproved the claim the budget airline's stake would 
prevent other carriers from merging with or bidding for the Irish flag carrier.
Mr Walsh said IAG would bring "fantastic value" to Aer Lingus because of its holding group structure, and that the 
Irish carrier's brand and headquarters in Dublin would be maintained.
"It's about growing the Aer Lingus network and with the growth of the network comes growth in jobs," he said.
Meanwhile, Pádraig O'Riordáin, chairman of the Dublin Airport Authority, said that a sale of Aer Lingus to IAG could 
"contribute significantly" to growth at Ireland's biggest airport, especially in transatlantic traffic.
He said: "It appears there may be some potential positives for Dublin airport should the takeover proceed."
His comments echo those of tourism chiefs, who argued that Aer Lingus as part of IAG would be able to expand its 
network into the US.
Load-Date: February 12, 2015
End of Document
Balder looks primed to give Alan King a second Ascot Chase success BILL ESDAILE PREVIEWS THE BEST 
OF THE WEEKEND RACING ACTION
Balder looks primed to give Alan King a second Ascot Chase success; BILL 
ESDAILE PREVIEWS THE BEST OF THE WEEKEND RACING ACTION
City A.M.
February 13, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 42
Length: 687 words
Body
WITH just over three weeks to go until the start of the Cheltenham Festival, the excitement is really starting to build. 
Most of the key protagonists have now had their prep runs but there are still a couple of decent trials to look forward 
to, not least tomorrow's Grade One Ascot Chase (3.50pm) over 2m5f.
Paul Nicholls landed yet another big prize last weekend when Mr Mole took the Game Spirit at Newbury and his Ptit 
Zig was all the rage when the entries came out for this on Tuesday.
He is undoubtedly a top class chasing prospect and this intermediate trip seems to suit him at this stage of his 
career. However, I'm not sure the form of his novice wins over Champagne West and Josses Hill are as good as 
they seemed at the time, and he's taking on some experienced chasers here.
BALDER SUCCES was slightly disappointing in his first three starts this term over short trips, but he bounced back 
to form at Kempton last time when stepped up to 2m4½f. He loves a small field and conditions look to be just about 
perfect for him tomorrow. This race will determine whether he lines up in the Betway Champion Chase or the 
Ryanair, but the latter is surely the most likely.
Alan King won this prize with Voy Por Ustedes back in 2009 and the 9/4 with Betway about his charge is far better 
value than Ptit Zig, who is as short as 13/8 in a place.
Nicky Henderson's Ma Filleule is very talented, as she showed when tearing apart her rivals in the Topham last 
April, and she will have the 7lb mares allowance here.
I wouldn't rule out a big run from her, but she might just get slightly tapped for toe against these speedier rivals.
Balder looks primed to give Alan King a second Ascot Chase success BILL ESDAILE PREVIEWS THE BEST 
OF THE WEEKEND RACING ACTION
Ballycasey also can't be ignored as he is another who relishes this kind of trip. He ran a stinker at Leopardstown 
over Christmas, but two miles is too short for him and a strong performance here would set him up perfectly for the 
Ryanair.
Up at Haydock, the big betting race is the Grand National Trial (2.55pm) where 13 runners are set to go to post.
They haven't had as much rain as is normally the case at this time of year so, although the ground won't be as 
bottomless as normal, it is still going to be a brutal stamina test over the 3m5f trip.
The one that first caught my eye was Benbens for Nigel Twiston-Davies, who ran on just a fraction too late in the 
day last month over three miles at this course.
He should appreciate an extra couple of furlongs, but he stopped quite quickly in the Welsh National and I just 
wonder if he'll be able to truly get home over this distance.
Benvolio, Samstown and Monbeg Dude are all respected, despite having to carry welter burdens, while Broadway 
Buffalo is two from two at Haydock and is another who could go close if he can prove his stamina.
However, the one I will be backing is last year's winner RIGADIN DE BEAUCHENE, who has dropped down to a 
mark just seven pounds higher than 12 months ago.
It was an incredible training performance to win on his seasonal reappearance then, but he was also second in this 
race two years ago and this tight track clearly suits him well.
I'm not too concerned about him being pulled up on his last three starts and his handicap mark is workable. The 10-
year-old is a proven stayer and I always prefer those in a race of this nature. Take the 10/1 with Betway.
Back at Ascot, I fancy CAROLE'S DESTRIER to run a big race in the Hamilton Chase (2.40pm) for Neil Mulholland. 
He ran really well at Cheltenham last time and the step back up to three miles will be in his favour in a race which 
doesn't have much depth to it.
Donald McCain has his string in fine form at last and I can see his DIAMOND KING going very close in the 
handicap hurdle (3.15pm). He was well supported at Cheltenham last month, but was too keen and clearly needed 
the run having been off the track for a year.
Something like the Coral Cup looks an obvious target, but he will need to pick up a penalty to get into that and a win 
here would do just the trick.
@BillEsdaile ? Pointers… CAROLE'S DESTRIER 2.40pm Ascot (tomorrow) RIGADIN DE BEAUCHENE e/w 
2.55pm Haydock (tomorrow) DIAMOND KING 3.15pm Ascot (tomorrow) BALDER SUCCES 3.50pm Ascot 
(tomorrow)
Load-Date: February 13, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair claims breach of human rights as it appeals to top court
Ryanair claims breach of human rights as it appeals to top court
City A.M.
February 13, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 174 words
Byline: CATHERINE NEILAN
Body
RYANAIR is taking its legal challenge over Aer Lingus to the UK Supreme Court, yesterday claiming it is a human 
rights issue.
The budget airline had previously been told by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) to sell off its 29 per 
cent stake in Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus, reducing its stake to no more than five per cent.
Ryanair challenged the decision, but was yesterday rejected by the UK Court of Appeal, with airline spokesman 
Robin Kiely describing the CMA's final report as being "based on fanciful hypotheses, secretive 'evidence' and 
unsubstantiated assumptions".
As a result boss Michael O'Leary instructed lawyers to appeal the ruling at the UK Supreme Court.
"It raises human rights issues of significant public importance, including the scope of protection offered to 
businesses by the right to property," the company said.
Ryanair also requested a formal review by the CMA of its final report due to recent offers by International Airlines 
Group (IAG) for Aer Lingus, claiming it "fully disproves the theories" of the report.
Graphic
 
Michael O'Leary said a forced sale of Ryanair's Aer Lingus stake breaches human rights
Ryanair claims breach of human rights as it appeals to top court
Load-Date: February 13, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair told to sell-down A Lingus stake Ryanair Case
Ryanair told to sell-down A Lingus stake; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
February 12, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 447 words
Highlight: Britain's Court of Appeal today rejected Ryanair's appeal against an order to dispose of most of its 30 
percent stake in rival Aer Lingus on competition grounds.
Body
Britain's Court of Appeal today rejected Ryanair's appeal against an order to dispose of most of its 30 percent stake 
in rival Aer Lingus on competition grounds.
Ryanair said in response it would appeal the decision of the Court of Appeal, where it had argued that Britain's 
competition regulator did not have the jurisdiction to rule on two Irish airlines.
British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) is hoping to buy the stake from Ryanair as 
part of a 1.36 billion euro takeover approach it has made to Aer Lingus.
That possible deal received the backing of the Aer Lingus board last month. IAG is currently in talks with the Irish 
government about securing its 25 percent stake. Ryanair said of the court's decision today that Court of Appeal 
considered Ryanair's arguments about the CMA's breach of the EU law duty of sincere cooperation and of 
Ryanair's procedural rights, as well as the disproportionality of the divestment remedy imposed on Ryanair, but 
refused to set the CMA's decision aside. Ryanair said it will now appeal this case to the UK Supreme Court, as it 
"raises human rights issues of significant public importance, including the scope of protection offered to businesses 
by the right to property". In parallel, Ryanair has requested a formal review by the CMA of its Final Report, and a 
withdrawal of the divestment remedy, in light of the recent offers by the International Airlines Group (IAG) for Aer 
Lingus, which fully disprove the theories and unsubstantiated evidence on which the Final Report was based. The 
CMA speculated in its Final Report that Ryanair's 29pc shareholding would deter other airlines from merging with or 
bidding for Aer Lingus. Clearly, IAG's recent offers demonstrate that the CMA's findings were wrong and that its 
divestment remedies must be revoked in light of this compelling evidence. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "While we 
note the Court of Appeal's ruling on the CMA's Final Report on Ryanair's 29pc stake in Aer Lingus, this judgment 
ignores the fact that the CMA's Final Report was based on fanciful hypotheses, secretive "evidence and 
unsubstantiated assumptions. As such, we have instructed our lawyers to appeal this ruling to the UK Supreme 
Ryanair told to sell-down A Lingus stake Ryanair Case
Court. Additionally, Ryanair has now requested a formal review by the CMA of its Final Report, and a withdrawal of 
the divestment remedy, in light of the recent IAG offers for Aer Lingus, which wholly disprove the CMA's 
unsubstantiated claim that Ryanair's shareholding somehow prevented other airlines from merging with or bidding 
for Aer Lingus. Clearly the CMA's case has now been totally undermined by the IAG offers." For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 17, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair To Appeal Aer Lingus Sell-Down Ruling - Quick Facts
Ryanair To Appeal Aer Lingus Sell-Down Ruling - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
February 12, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 265 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair, Europe's favourite airline, noted the UK Court of Appeal's judgment concerning Ryanair's 
appeal of the UK Competition Commission's Final Report regarding Ryanair's 29% stake in Aer Lingus. The Court 
of Appeal considered Ryanair's arguments about the CMA's breach of the EU law duty of sincere cooperation and 
of Ryanair's procedural rights, as well as the disproportionality of the divestment remedy imposed on Ryanair, but 
refused to set the CMA's decision aside. Ryanair will now appeal this case to the UK Supreme Court, as it raises 
human rights issues of significant public importance, including the scope of protection offered to businesses by the 
right to property.
In parallel, Ryanair has requested a formal review by the CMA of its Final Report, and a withdrawal of the 
divestment remedy, in light of the recent offers by the International Airlines Group or IAG for Aer Lingus, which fully 
disprove the theories and unsubstantiated evidence on which the Final Report was based.
In addition, Aer Lingus welcomes today's decision by the Court of Appeal rejecting the challenge Ryanair brought 
against the judgment of the Competition Appeal Tribunal or "CAT". In March 2014, the CAT dismissed Ryanair's 
appeal against the UK Competition Commission or CC's Report that ruled Ryanair's shareholding in Aer Lingus to 
be anti-competitive and required it to sell down its 29.82% stake in Aer Lingus to 5%. The Report also limits 
Ryanair's ability to re-acquire shares.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 12, 2015
End of Document
Fixed future costs could offset sunset clause comedown
Fixed future costs could offset sunset clause comedown
Citywire
February 12, 2015 Thursday 3:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 275 words
Body
Advisers could learn something from Ryanair's way of charging its customers.
While listening to the radio on the way into the office recently, I heard Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary 
explain why falling fuel prices would not boost the airline's profits.
Pressed by the interviewer, O'Leary explained how the company purchases its fuel on the futures market. The 
purpose of this is not only to control accurately a variable that contributes 45% to its overheads, but also to provide 
a relatively consistent pricing point to the end-user in providing the service.
Fly into the sunset Ryanair's policy led me to think: could the advice community do something similar when 
preparing legacy assets for the 'sunset clause', which comes into force in April 2016? Can the necessary 
arrangements be made at a fixed and known cost? To me, the simple answer is yes.
Whether it is called repapering, transitioning or efficiently realigning, clients could be presented with the available 
options at a fixed cost to the firm. This could be in terms of a measured time cost for internal resources or a unit 
cost for external resources.
This cost could be measured directly against the potential loss of income to the firm in real terms come April 2016.
Doing the sums While ensuring each individual client's needs and interests are best served in moving, the overall 
process should also be examined in terms of cost.
A pragmatic, strategic and near mathematical approach should be taken when looking at a firm's back book of 
legacy assets, rather than simply looking for easy pickings or low-hanging fruit.
James Eden is business development manager at The Timebank
Load-Date: February 12, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus welcome UK court ruling Ryanair Ruling
Aer Lingus welcome UK court ruling; Ryanair Ruling
Business World (Digest)
February 12, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 142 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus today said it welcomes the decision by the Court of Appeal in Britain rejecting the challenge 
Ryanair brought against the judgment of the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT).
Body
Aer Lingus today said it welcomes the decision by the Court of Appeal in Britain rejecting the challenge Ryanair 
brought against the judgment of the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT).
In March 2014, the CAT dismissed Ryanair's appeal against the UK Competition Commission's Report that ruled 
Ryanair's shareholding in Aer Lingus to be anti-competitive and required it to sell down its 29.82pc stake in Aer 
Lingus to 5pc.
The Report also limits Ryanair's ability to re-acquire shares.
Ryanair appealed the CAT's judgment on a number of grounds, all of which have been rejected in today's ruling. 
The Court also refused permission for Ryanair to appeal to the Supreme Court. This is the third time that the Court 
of Appeal has rejected Ryanair's attempts to derail the UK competition authorities' investigations and findings. For 
more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 17, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to open 2 new Dublin routes Ryanair Routes
Ryanair to open 2 new Dublin routes; Ryanair Routes
Business World (Digest)
February 12, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 76 words
Highlight: Ryanair today unveiled its Dublin Winter 2015/16 schedule, with two new routes to and from 
Copenhagen and Lublin.
Body
Ryanair today unveiled its Dublin Winter 2015/16 schedule, with two new routes to and from Copenhagen and 
Lublin.
It also announced the extension of its Venice Treviso summer routes to year-round services and increased 
frequencies on 6 other routes.
These, it said, will deliver over 9.7 million customers a year and support 9,700 "on-site" jobs at Dublin Airport.
It will have 63 routes from Dublin next winter, Ryanair said. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 17, 2015
End of Document
Qatar Airways looks to longer-term goals with IAG stake ON MONDAY
Qatar Airways looks to longer-term goals with IAG stake; ON MONDAY
Financial Times (London, England)
February 9, 2015 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: INSIDE BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 765 words
Byline: Jonathan Ford
Body
When one airline buys a minority stake in another, it is often hard to fathom what the purchaser expects to achieve. 
A shareholding rarely confers the influence necessary to extract valuable synergies from the relationship. That is 
especially true when the buyer is foreign. Aviation remains tightly hemmed in by national ownership rules. Nor is it 
an obvious way to gain commercial advantages. There are, anyway, easier ways for two airlines to co-operate on 
routes, such as code-sharing deals (which allow passengers to travel seamlessly on either carrier's services) and 
joint ventures.
Arguably these are better pursued from a position of independence and shared interest, rather than through one 
partner forcing its affections on the other.
Yet none of these considerations seem to have deterred Qatar Airways from paying £1.2bn to take a 10 per cent 
stake in International Airlines Group , the group that owns British Airways and Iberia. The Gulf-based airline hopes 
the deal will encourage IAG to expand their code-sharing arrangements. They already co-operate on some routes 
and are partners in the OneWorld alliance. But in crude financial terms it makes little sense, producing scant return 
in the form of dividends. While not precluding co-operation in wringing efficiencies, it offers little that Qatar could not 
have achieved by other, cheaper means.
The best answer is that the Gulf carrier believes the purchase serves longer-term strategic aims. Qatar wishes to 
signal its seriousness in pursuing a deeper relationship with IAG - something best seen in the context of a wider 
restructuring of the so-called "legacy" airline market in Europe and beyond.
Qatar Airways looks to longer-term goals with IAG stake ON MONDAY
Already hemmed in by low-cost carriers in their short-haul operations, European airlines face an escalating squeeze 
in long haul too. The most visible threat comes from the three so-called Gulf "super-connectors" - Emirates, Etihad 
and Qatar. With their modern fleets and widening route maps across the crucial Asian market, these carriers have 
ramped up their flights to Europe. Just a decade ago, the Gulf trio ran 19,000 flights a year to and from the EU. By 
last year, the figure was 37,000.
More competition is on the way. Turkish Airlines already has substantial point-to-point business serving Europe 
from its Istanbul hub. Now it plans to back-to-back this with long-haul flights into Asia.
New entrants, such as Ryanair, are also eyeing the market. The introduction of fuel-efficient long-haul planes such 
as the Boeing 787 threatens to make a reality of the dream first conjured by Britain's Sir Freddie Laker in the 1970s 
- that of cheap long-haul flying.
The onslaught has induced some hard thinking - even at Europe's proudest flag carriers. Gone are the days when 
BA, Air France and Lufthansa looked down haughtily on the Gulf airlines. There are still question marks over unfair 
subsidy, which will only be dispelled when Qatar and Etihad join Emirates in publishing accounts. But most accept 
the trio's slender expense ratios - Emirates' unit costs are a quarter lower than those of IAG - owe much to able 
management and attention to detail.
From the Gulf perspective, too, there is a recognition that co-operation may make sense. The European market, 
while large, is not endless, and Emirates has gobbled up much of the lowest-hanging fruit by flying long-haul routes 
out of secondary airports such as Manchester in the UK and Hamburg in Germany.
The other two are pursuing different strategies. Etihad has sought to lock in so-called "feeder" traffic by purchasing 
stakes in troubled carriers such as Alitalia and Air Berlin, which would otherwise be in danger of collapse. By 
bankrolling them it gains access to a customer base in Italy and Germany. Qatar, meanwhile, is edging closer to 
BA.
There are plenty of commercial reasons for IAG and Qatar to pool resources. A joint venture on routes to India and 
Asia, where the two sides in effect merge to operate as one, could allow IAG to offer many more destinations to the 
subcontinent than European rivals without the commensurate cost and risk. For Qatar, BA offers the possibility of 
code-sharing on routes into secondary US cities - at a time when US airlines are trying to limit the Gulf carriers' 
access to American skies.
Of course, the stake's existence does not ensure any of this will happen - or even that the benefits of collaboration 
will flow to investors rather than passengers. But the fact that Qatar is prepared to back its play with hard cash is 
telling. And if the two sides make a partnership work, it may not be the last.
jonathan.ford@ft.com 
Load-Date: February 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair January passenger traffic increases 30%
Ryanair January passenger traffic increases 30%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 9, 2015 Monday 12:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 117 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of January 2015 was 5.98 million 
passengers, an increase of 30%, compared to 4.6 million passengers for January 2014.
Body
Load factor for the month of January 2015 was 83%, an increase of 12 percentage points, compared to 71% for 
January 2014. Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 1.3m (+30%) to 5.98m 
customers in January, while our load factor rose by 12% points to 83%, thanks to our lower fares and the continuing 
success of our "Always Getting Better" customer programme, which delivered stronger forward bookings and better 
than expected load factors across our significantly expanded winter schedule. With our great new routes, increased 
frequencies and Business Plus service, Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares in 
every market we operate in."
Load-Date: February 15, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus shares could plummet, analysts warn
Aer Lingus shares could plummet, analysts warn
Sunday Business Post
February 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 526 words
Body
The share price of Aer Lingus could fall by as much as 20 per cent if the government refuses to sell its minority 
holding in the national carrier to IAG, according to new research from aviation analysts.
Merrion Stockbrokers said the Aer Lingus share price would drop to about EUR 1.80, well down from EUR 2.22 last 
week and far below the EUR 2.55 on offer from IAG.
The view is confirmed by several international brokerages, who argue that institutional shareholders would take 
fright if another bid for the airline were stymied by political pressure. The prospect of the proposed IAG takeover 
stalling is intensifying, with mounting political opposition to the deal.
   If the deal does not happen, then there will be an unwinding of positions to the level it was at prior to when the bid 
proposal was announced,   Merrion aviation analyst David Holohan said.
   But if they walk away and it is perceived that there is political interference blocking a takeover of the airline then 
investors will take a much more dim view given that Ryanair was also twice blocked from acquiring Aer Lingus,   he 
said.
Nevertheless, Holohan remains confident that the deal will go ahead, and that it is the right strategy for the airline.
   They need to put aside parish-pump politics and think about what is the best thing for the airline in the long term,   
he said.
**Grim scenario**
But other analysts are not so confident that the deal will happen, and predict a    grim scenario   for Aer Lingus that 
could wipe away the boost it received following the resolution of its pension issues.
Aer Lingus shares could plummet, analysts warn
   With Ryanair's 30 per cent shareholding also expected to come to market you could ultimately see the share price 
fall below EUR 1.50. The fund managers will be livid if IAG walks and are not likely to want to stick around 
themselves,   said one aviation analyst.
   If IAG walks away, it is very grim for Aer Lingus. They have to find a chief executive and they will have a very 
annoyed shareholder group, especially the financial investors in the company. The share price would get absolutely 
creamed and this will put Aer Lingus in a very tricky place in terms of strategy.  
Holohan agreed that the situation with Ryanair's stake was also set to have a negative impact on the Aer Lingus 
share price if the IAG bid fails to materialise. Ryanair has challenged an order by Britain's competition regulator that 
it cut its stake in Aer Lingus to 5 per cent and the court of appeal is set to rule on that this week.
Ryanair would likely be given time to sell down its stake, but it would still lead to a persistent discount of the share 
price compared to other shares in the sector, according to Holohan.
   The knowledge that Ryanair must unwind its position would probably lead to the share price being stuck in a 
range,   he said.    We have seen that with Aer Lingus before, last October, when it was for a long time stuck 
between EUR 1.40 and EUR 1.50 because of concerns about its shareholder makeup and the pension issue.  
The resolution to the pension issue allowed the share price rise out of that range and the IAG bid is the answer to 
the ownership problem, according to Holohan.
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
February 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 629 words
Body
**Ryanair's early fuel hedge may dampen profits next year**
Ryanair reported third quarter net profit of EUR 49 million last week, up from a loss of EUR 35 million in the same 
period last year.
The airline also announced a EUR 400 million share buyback programme, and a EUR 520 million special dividend 
to be paid on February 27.
Ryanair has raised its full-year net profit guidance to the EUR 840 million to EUR 850 million range from the 
previously-indicated range of EUR 810 million to EUR 830 million. Revenues were up 17 per cent to EUR 1.13 
billion, while unit costs were down 6 per cent.
The airline, which celebrates 30 years in business this year, said that it expected to carry 100 million customers in 
the 2015/16 financial year. However, it urged caution on expectations for 2016 as its fuel is hedged at $92 per 
barrel, higher than some competitors who hedged later.
...................................
**Hibernia Reit seeks new opportunities in the year ahead**
Property firm Hibernia Reit has reported a positive start to the year in its interim management statement.
The company said it is actively assessing a number of opportunities with its    usual discipline  .
The company also said that it had successfully completed its second equity offering in early November, raising net 
proceeds of about EUR 286 million.
The company said that it had cash of EUR 233.5 million at the end of last year, with a EUR 100 million revolving 
credit facility currently undrawn.
Boardroom Briefing
...................................
**January drop in passenger numbers for Aer Lingus**
Aer Lingus has reported a 5.7 per cent drop in the number of January passengers compared to the same month 
last year.
The airline carried 614,000 passengers in the month, including on Aer Lingus Regional, down from 651,000 last 
January.
Long-haul traffic increased by 22 per cent to 72,000 passengers in the month, compared to 59,000 in the same 
month last year.
The airline also said that overall passenger load factor - the number of seats it fills on its flights - was up 2.4 per 
cent to 68.9 per cent.
...................................
**UDG Healthcare boasts strong trade**
UDG Healthcare has reported    a strong start   to the year, with trading well ahead of the same period last year.
The company said it expected diluted earnings per share for the year to September 2015 to be between 5 per cent 
and 8 per cent ahead of last year.
UDG, which held its annual general meeting last week, has indicated that it expects to deliver a good underlying 
cashflow performance, leaving it well positioned to grow organically and through acquisition.
The company also announced a change to its board, with Dr John Peter retiring as a board member and chair of 
the remuneration committee.
...................................
**Bank of Ireland in commercial loan deal with Goldman**
Bank of Ireland and Goldman Sachs have joined forces to acquire a multi-million euro commercial loan portfolio 
from Danske Bank.
Terms of the deal were agreed last week, with Bank of Ireland acquiring a EUR 274 million portfolio of performing 
commercial loans, comprising more than 1,000 customers. Goldman Sachs, in conjunction with Pepper Asset 
Servicing, will acquire the balance of the EUR 540 million Danske portfolio.
...................................
**The week ahead**
Wednesday will see full-year results from both Tullow Oil and Smurfit Kappa. In a trading update last month Tullow 
Oil, which has been hit by a dramatic fall in oil prices, announced that it had written off EUR 1.95 billion in relation to 
exploration work in 2014 and reduced its 2015 investment programme for a second time.
DCC will publish a trading statement on Thursday. Last year, the company announced the disposal of its Robert 
Roberts and Kelkin businesses to Valeo Foods.
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
Boardroom Briefing
End of Document
Ryan reveals plans for Latin American expansion
Ryan reveals plans for Latin American expansion
Sunday Business Post
February 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 464 words
Body
Three decades after the launch of Ryanair, Declan Ryan - son of founder Tony Ryan - is preparing to bring the low-
cost airline model pioneered by his father to new markets in Latin America.
Speaking in Dublin, Ryan said his investment vehicle Irelandia Aviation, which already has partnerships in 
Colombia and Mexico, was weighing up opportunities in Cuba and Costa Rica.
   All our focus now is in South America - Latin America,   said Ryan.    We are trying to decide should it be Costa 
Rica, and we are very actively looking at Cuba as well. That would be a pretty amazing achievement for a couple of 
Paddies.  
Ryan established Irelandia Aviation in 1987, continuing to serve on Ryanair's board of directors until 2004.
He partnered with Singapore Airlines in 2004 to establish low-cost airline Tiger Airways, which went public in 2011. 
US airline Allegiant floated in 2005, two years after Irelandia's investment.
   Once I got released from Ryanair - and that's another book in itself - anyway, once I got out of Ryanair, we 
decided to bring the model to other parts of the world,   he said.
   We did it with Tiger Airways in Singapore, we looked at it with Allegiant in Las Vegas, and our current partner 
markets are Mexico with VivaAerobus and VivaColombia.  
Colombia's VivaColombia airline has a fleet of 6 aircraft, and ViaAerobus has 19.
   We're very big into our partnerships, not just with our manufacturers, but also with our local partners on the 
ground,   Ryan said.
   If you take VivaAerobus, our partner there is the biggest bus company in Mexico. They have 10,000 buses and 
300 'Busárases', so that's how big they are. It's a great story and we're very proud of it.  
Ryan reveals plans for Latin American expansion
Ryan said he had once considered establishing airport-based hubs to support start-up companies.
   One of the things that came into my mind is that maybe we should do start-ups at all the airports and have 
incubators there. If you want to get bigger, that it wouldn't be a bad place to be,   he said.
   Ryanair was a start-up. We didn't think it was a start-up, but it was a start-up and it's a great example of a very 
successful start-up in Europe.  
He added:    One thing I will say is that, if you went to Harvard, you wouldn't pick Ireland to be the centre for 
aviation as well as the biggest low-cost airline in Europe. Deregulation in '92 really helped the whole process.  
Ryan said the airlines's first ever aircraft - a 12-seater Bandeirante - had provided an early lesson.    We shouldn't 
have taken it,   he said.    Hostesses had to be five-foot one. We had 12 seats and when we did the weight and 
balance, we could only use 10 seats.  
Declan Ryan was speaking at the recent Connecting StartUps in Europe event at DCU Ryan Academy Centre for 
Entrepreneurship in Dublin's Citywest Business Campus.
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Election politics will decide fate of Aer Lingus
Election politics will decide fate of Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
February 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 931 words
Body
So now, apparently, it's all about jobs. Not content with demanding - and then receiving - guarantees from IAG on 
connectivity and hallowed Heathrow landing slots, the government is now seeking assurances that Willie Walsh will 
not take a chainsaw to Aer Lingus staff numbers.
It begs a question: has the government suddenly taken a keen interest in staffing levels at Aer Lingus, or is it simply 
looking for an excuse not to sell off its 25.1 per cent holding?
Walsh's entente on connectivity and slots has exposed the fundamental flaw in the government's position. For all 
the rhetoric about selling the minority stake at the right time and to the right buyer, the state is fast becoming an 
entrenched shareholder. The election is just too close, and jettisoning a national asset is too politically poisonous 
and perilous.
We know the state cannot reject the bid on the basis of price - the Irish government floated the carrier in 2006 at 
EUR 2.20 a share: it has traded above this price only three times since then, twice during Ryanair bids and now 
under IAG's advances. IAG is offering EUR 2.50 a share plus a five cent dividend sweetener.
We can reasonably assume that Walsh's proposal to make legally binding commitments on air services to Ireland 
has dealt with the issue of connectivity, so that excuse goes also.
So, the new battleground is jobs. By demanding assurances on jobs, the government is seeking something that 
Walsh or any potential suitor would not be willing to give.
The wily Walsh might well outline a rationalisation plan to assuage political concerns, but there is no realistic 
chance he will deliver the kind of cast-iron guarantees on staffing that several members of the cabinet are now 
seeking.
Election politics will decide fate of Aer Lingus
There is an irony to all this posturing of course. In the week that Joan Burton talked of jobs being an essential 
component of any bid, the current management of Aer Lingus outlined a plan to pare back staffing numbers by 150 
people through a voluntary redundancy programme.
As things stand, the government has no ability - either legal or moral - to prevent Aer Lingus from cutting costs 
through staff reductions. Indeed, the departing chief executive Christoph Mueller, a man who drove down costs 
assiduously, was rewarded by government with the chairmanship of An Post and a seat on the board of Tourism 
Ireland.
Walsh now has about three weeks to get the deal back on track, and charm the government into selling its stake. It 
remains unlikely that he will seek to take control of the airline through a back-door hostile takeover. Walsh needs 
100 per cent ownership to get access to the EUR 400 million of cash on the Aer Lingus balance sheet, a reservoir 
of reserves that makes his EUR 2.50 a share offer viable. Walsh is seeking outright ownership, and not a skittish 
minority shareholding.
Walsh might well seek to turn the government jobs demand to his own advantage. Analysts at Citi in the US are 
arguing that the IAG-Aer Lingus merger would actually create jobs by allowing Aer Lingus enhanced capacity to 
expand routes. Walsh will play up the potential of tapping Aer Lingus into the Oneworld airline network, a move that 
could improve connectivity rather than remove it.
Walsh believes that Dublin is beautifully placed geographically to leverage natural traffic flows between Ireland and 
the US - plus it has the benefit of US immigration pre-clearance. Dublin will become a hub of trans-Atlantic traffic, a 
move IAG believe will benefit both Ireland and Aer Lingus.
Analysts believe the deal makes sense. The board of Aer Lingus likes the proposal too. But there is a momentum 
gathering against the deal: multinationals have voiced concerns, as have trade unions, business groups and parts 
of the tourism lobby.
For them, it is not as black and white as IAG would argue. As an island nation, access and egress are of 
tantamount importance. Indeed, the decision to shut down the Stena ferry service out of Dun Laoghaire last week 
highlights how fickle the industry is. There is also the added concern over the future ownership of Irish Ferries - at 
some point in the next few years, its parent ICG will come into play, and could potentially by acquired by a foreign 
private equity fund.
There is an argument in government that the state should retain ownership of the airline, even if that prevented Aer 
Lingus delivering value to institutional shareholders by future expansion.
If the government decides to hold firm and rebuff Walsh and IAG, it must be prepared to deal with the 
consequences. The share prices will tank: profit-seeking investors have bought Aer Lingus stock in the hope that a 
suitor like IAG would come along.
If the government is not prepared to do business, it will cut its losses. The share prices will fall - a point outlined by 
Merrion Stockbrokers which argues that shareholders will be left    in an untenable situation   where yet another bid 
would have been spurned for political considerations.
Ryanair is sitting in the wings - a rival of and a substantial shareholder in Aer Lingus. The IAG bid is handsome 
enough to allow it to walk away without a loss. Michael O'Leary is playing his cards close to his chest, but the 
feeling is he would be a willing seller.
Citi, in a note circulated last week, said it expected the deal to go through, arguing Walsh would win over the 
government.
But that sort of analysis is based on the assumption that the government position is straightforward. It is not. 
Governments are political. Politics is not straightforward, particularly with an election looming large. That is why it is 
all about jobs.
Election politics will decide fate of Aer Lingus
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Dublin Aerospace mulling bid for Shannon-based Transaero Engineering
Dublin Aerospace mulling bid for Shannon-based Transaero Engineering
Sunday Business Post
February 8, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 371 words
Body
Dublin Aerospace, the Irish aircraft maintenance firm established by Conor McCarthy, is exploring a bid for 
Transaero Engineering Ireland (TEI), a cash-strapped rival that sought examinership protection from its creditors 
earlier this year.
Dublin Aerospace is one of a number of firms to have sought access to TEI's books and records. Shannon 
Aerospace, the Shannon-based subsidiary of aviation giant Lufthansa, has also sought access to the data. Both 
have signed non-disclosure agreements.
The flurry of interest by big name competitors will be welcomed by more than 230 Irish workers at TEI, who will lose 
their jobs if a rescue deal cannot be agreed by the company's examiner, the accountant Michael McAteer.
The process remains in its early stages, with a large number of potential suitors running the rule over TEI, which is 
based in Shannon.
The company sought examinership after its Russian parent, TransaeroAirlines, said on December 18 that it was    
fighting for its survival   and could no longer financially support the Irish operation.
The parent owes TEI EUR 4.5 million and is the Irish company's largest debtor. If a rescue plan cannot be drawn 
up, the company will go into liquidation with a deficit of more than EUR 19 million and all the jobs will be lost.
Court filings prepared for the examinership application show that TEI staff already face a two-year pay freeze, cuts 
to sick pay and other benefits and changes to work practices.
The examiner is also seeking rent reduction or lease repudiation from Shannon Airport, where TEI is based and 
took a lease on a second hangar two years ago. The leases are worth EUR 12.5 million to the airport authority over 
their lifetime.
Dublin Aerospace mulling bid for Shannon-based Transaero Engineering
Transaero bought TEI in April 2012 from Eimskip, an Icelandic group, which had run it as Air Atlanta. It was the Irish 
subsidiary's main customer, although the Shannon subsidiary also works with TuiFly, Star Air and DHL.
Dublin Aerospace was established by former Ryanair executive McCarthy in 2009, and now employs 270 people. It 
has been an indigenous success story, and has contracts with a range of clients, including Thomas Cook and Fast-
Jet, the Tanzania-based low-cost carrier that is backed by Easyjet founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou.
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Sunday Papers: Britain faces £200bn oil loss
Sunday Papers: Britain faces £200bn oil loss
Citywire
February 8, 2015 Sunday 4:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 582 words
Body
Top stories The Sunday Telegraph: Britain faces £200 billion oil loss as $50 oil prices could lead to the early 
decommissioning of North Sea facilities and the loss of six billion barrels of oil. Mail on Sunday: Rolls-Royce, 
Britain's pre-eminent engineering firm, is set to report a dip in profits amid fears that its performance this year will 
also disappoint investors. The Sunday Telegraph: RBS to spend £1.5 billion carving off 'challenger bank' Williams & 
Glyn as costly separation of 314 branches under EU orders comes ahead of 2016 float. The Observer: The Church 
of England is considering withdrawing its investment in a controversial British mining firm whose operations in a 
war-torn region of Africa have alarmed both human rights groups and environmentalists. 
The Sunday Telegraph: Tullow Oil has told investors to brace for about $2.7 billion (£1.8 billion) in write-offs, of 
which $1.8 billion are a result of the oil market turmoil. Business and economics Mail on Sunday: Peter Hambro, 
scion of the blue-blooded banking family, is fighting to save his mining business Petropavlovsk and desperately 
needs the support of thousands of small shareholders. Mail on Sunday: Advertising mogul Sir Martin Sorrell has 
added his voice to the chorus of bosses criticising Labour leader Ed Miliband's attitude to business. Independent on 
Sunday: The Thousands of holidaymakers are still waiting for more than £50 million in compensation for delayed 
flights, as a coalition of airlines, including Ryanair and Flybe, refuse to pay up despite losing a Supreme Court legal 
battle. Mail on Sunday: The Walt Disney Studios has collected £215 million from British taxpayers over the past 
seven years to reward it for making films in the UK, new figures reveal. Mail on Sunday: Poundworld could be the 
next budget retailer to change hands after rival Poundland's announcement that it plans to buy the 99p Stores 
chain. The Observer: Brazil's state giant Petrobras is likely to press on with its deepwater drill plans in the face of 
scandal and uncertainty over revenues. The Observer: Shell's decision to begin dismantling operations in the 
famous Brent field in North Sea is a striking example of the global impact of falling oil prices. Share tips, comment 
and bids The Sunday Telegraph (Questor share tip): Vodafone a hold for income. The Sunday Telegraph (Questor 
share tip): Buy GSK for dividend and recovery. The Sunday Telegraph: Tide power scheme to deliver £200 million 
boost to UK industry; project to generate electricity from tides in Swansea Bay set to announce builder of huge 
turbines. The Sunday Telegraph: Hedge fund makes £100 million bet on British solar power; Elliott has quietly built 
up a portfolio of six solar farms across the country. The Sunday Telegraph: Sofa.com sold to private equity firm 
Close Brothers after a sale process run by corporate finance boutique Altium. The Sunday Telegraph: Kuoni tour 
operations eyed by Emirates group; private equity group formerly known as Isis injects millions into family-run 
holiday homes business. The Independent on Sunday (Comment): We don't have to love our debts, but we do have 
to live with them. The Sunday Telegraph (Comment): Whatever the Chancellor is planning, his Coalition partners, 
the Lib Dems, have already cut loose and won't have a thing to do with it, so it can't actually be regarded as a real 
Sunday Papers: Britain faces £200bn oil loss
government Budget at all. The Sunday Telegraph (Comment): The hidden risks of adopting a cosy approach to 
investment.
Load-Date: February 8, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus loses passengers but wins EU lawsuit
Aer Lingus loses passengers but wins EU lawsuit
City A.M.
February 6, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 280 words
Body
BY JOSH MARTIN BOTH Aer Lingus and rival EasyJet have posted disappointing passenger numbers for the first 
month of 2015.
The Irish flag carrier said mainline passenger numbers fell 4.5 per cent year-on-year in January to 546,000. Aer 
Lingus, which is subject to a potential takeover bid from British Airways owner International Airlines Group (IAG), 
said its long-haul flights saw 22 per cent growth for the period, but its more-prominent short-haul flights suffered a 
7.6 per cent decline.
The numbers, which cover the post-Christmas lull typical in the airline market, add weight to sentiment the IAG offer 
is motivated by gaining access to gate slots at Heathrow airport rather than for Aer Lingus' passenger base.
Aer Lingus, along with rival Ryanair, yesterday won a court challenge against a European Union regulatory ruling 
ordering them to repay state aid related to Ireland's air travel tax.
The two carriers took their fight to the EU's General Court in Luxembourg after the European Commission in 2012 
said they had benefited from illegal state aid by paying a lower levy for domestic flights between 2009 and 2011.
The EU competition authority told Irish authorities to recover eight euros per passenger on short-haul flights from 
the airlines. Judges said the Commission's arguments were flawed.
Ireland had modified its air tax to a flat rate for all flights in 2011 following the Commission's investigation. 
Meanwhile, discount carrier EasyJet had a flat start to 2015 with just over 1,000 extra passengers compared to the 
same month last year, while its load factor - the percentage of filled seats aboard a flight - dipped slightly from 85.4 
per cent to 85.1 per cent.
Aer Lingus loses passengers but wins EU lawsuit
Graphic
 
Aer Lingus is currently subject to a takeover bid from BA-owner IAG
Load-Date: February 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair , A Lingus win EU court challenge Tax Challenge
Ryanair, A Lingus win EU court challenge; Tax Challenge
Business World (Digest)
February 5, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 221 words
Highlight: Ryanair and its rival Aer Lingus won a court challenge today against a European Union regulatory ruling 
ordering them to repay state aid related to Ireland's air travel tax.
Body
Ryanair and its rival Aer Lingus won a court challenge today against a European Union regulatory ruling ordering 
them to repay state aid related to Ireland's air travel tax.
The two carriers took their fight to the EU's General Court in Luxembourg after the European Commission in 2012 
said they had benefited from illegal state aid by paying a lower levy for domestic flights between 2009 and 2011.
The EU competition authority told Irish authorities to recover eight euros per passenger on short-haul flights from 
the airlines. Judges said the Commission's arguments were flawed.
"The General Court annuls the Commission decision in so far as it orders the recovery of the aid from the 
beneficiaries for an amount set at eight euros per passenger," the court said. "The Commission could not consider 
that the advantage enjoyed by the airlines automatically amounted, in all cases, to eight euros per passenger." 
Ireland subsequently modified its air travel tax to a flat rate for all flights, domestic and international, in 2011 
following the Commission's investigation. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "We welcome today's ruling which confirms 
that Ryanair is not required to pay the Irish State approx. E12 million in respect of the Air Travel Tax paid at a lower 
(E2) rate between 2009 and 2011." For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 10, 2015
End of Document
WIZZAIR BACK ON THE FLOTATION RUNWAY
WIZZAIR BACK ON THE FLOTATION RUNWAY
City A.M.
February 5, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 57 words
Body
EASTERN European-focused budget airline Wizz Air has resurrected plans to list on the London Stock Exchange, 
seeking to raise (EURO)150m (£113m) to help compete with larger rival Ryanair. Hungary-based Wizz, whose 
rivals also include EasyJet, pulled a plan for an initial public offering last June, citing market volatility in the airline 
sector.
Load-Date: February 5, 2015
End of Document
Wizz Air refuels for IPO push; High times
Wizz Air refuels for IPO push; High times
Financial Times (London, England)
February 5, 2015 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 192 words
Byline: Jane Wild and Joel Lewin
Body
Wizz Air has resurrected plans to float on the London Stock Exchange just seven months after scrapping them as it 
aims to undercut rival Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost airline.
The Budapest-based budget carrier is looking to raise EUR150m through an initial public offering in March that will 
help strengthen its balance sheet and give it access to cheaper funding.
Michael Powell , Wizz chief financial officer, said: "We are convinced we will be the lowest cost producer."
Wizz focuses on connecting western Europe to central and eastern Europe, routes eyed by Ryanair, which Wizz Air 
competes with on 32 per cent of flights.
József Váradi , Wizz chief executive, talked down the risk of any competitive reaction from Ryanair as Wizz grew. 
He said: "There is enough growth potential in eastern Europe to serve two carriers easily."
The no-frills airline abandoned its first effort to go public in June.
In the airline's first-half results posted yesterday, net profit jumped 45 per cent to EUR158.1m, as its passenger 
numbers rose 17 per cent to 8.8m. Barclays, Citigroup and JPMorgan are co-ordinators and bookrunners for the 
IPO.
Jane Wild and Joel Lewin
Wizz Air refuels for IPO push; High times
Load-Date: February 4, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Welcomes EU Court Ruling On Irish Air Travel Tax - Quick Facts
Ryanair Welcomes EU Court Ruling On Irish Air Travel Tax - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
February 5, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 182 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY), Europe's low fares airline, welcomed the ruling of the EU General Court, 
which annulled the European Commission's 2012 decision ordering that Ryanair pays the Irish State ?8 for every 
passenger who paid a 2 euro rate of the Air Travel Tax between 2009 and 2011.
The Irish Air Travel Tax between 2009 and 2011 was set at 10 euros for flights departing Irish airports and landing 
over 300km from Dublin Airport, and at 2 euros for flights departing Irish airports and landing less than 300km from 
Dublin Airport. In 2012, the European Commission decided that Ryanair, Aer Lingus and Aer Arann should pay the 
Irish State 8 euros in respect of each passenger who was subject to the 2 euros Air Travel Tax rate during that 
period.
The EU General Court today annulled the European Commission's decision in this respect and found that the 
Commission erred in concluding that the "advantage" enjoyed by the airlines automatically amounted in all cases to 
8 euros.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 5, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair reports Q3 profit, provides annual outlook
Ryanair reports Q3 profit, provides annual outlook
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 5, 2015 Thursday 6:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 171 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings plc has reported that profit attributable to equity holders of the parent for the third 
quarter ended December 31, 2014 was E48.9 million, or 3.52 cents per diluted share, compared to a loss 
attributable to equity holders of the parent of E35.2 million, or a loss of 2.50 cents per diluted share, for the same 
quarter ended December 31, 2013. For the year ending March 31, 2015, the company expects net profit to be in the 
range of E840 million to E850 million.
Body
Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the third quarter ended December 31, 2014 were E1.13 
billion, compared to E964.4 million for the same quarter ended December 31, 2013. Profit attributable to equity 
holders of the parent for the nine months ended December 31, 2014 was E843.9 million, or 60.84 cents per diluted 
share, compared to E566.7 million, or 39.67 per diluted share, for the same period ended December 31, 2013. Total 
operating revenues from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 31, 2014 were E4.67 billion, 
compared to E4.22 billion for the same period ended December 31, 2013. Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary, said: 
"As 2015 will be Ryanair's 30th year of bringing low fares to Europe, we are pleased to report a Q3 profit of E49m. 
These strong results confirm that our "Always Getting Better" customer programme and our expanded business 
schedules, coupled with our substantial fare and cost advantage over competitor airlines is drawing millions of new 
customers to Ryanair."
Load-Date: February 11, 2015
End of Document
Will Second Time Prove Lucky For Wizz Air As It Resurrects IPO Plans?
Will Second Time Prove Lucky For Wizz Air As It Resurrects IPO Plans?
RTT News (United States)
February 4, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 479 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Unfazed by a failed attempt to offer its shares in an IPO last year, budget carrier Wizz Air Holdings is 
all set to take another shot at redemption. The airliner has revived plan to list its shares on the London stock 
exchange and hopes to raise 150 million euros from an initial public offering.
Weak market conditions had forced the company to shelve its IPO plans last June.
Wizz Air said Wednesday that it intends to proceed with an initial public offering of its ordinary shares by listing on 
the main market of the London Stock Exchange by the end of March.
The move is seen as an effort to take advantage of the improving market condition of low cost carriers. Only 
recently, Irish low cost carrier Ryanair raised its outlook for the full year.
<b>Check 
this 
out</b> 
<b><a 
href=http://www.rttnews.com/Employees/Articles/InternalArticleView.aspx?Id=2449712 target=_blank >for Ryanair's 
recent quarterly performance</a>.</b>
The airline sector is also expected to have received a shot in the arm from a sharp pullback in oil prices, which have 
tumbled in response to supply glut fears amid lukewarm global economic growth outlook and the dollar's strength.
The company noted that the global offering will comprise of new ordinary shares by the company as well as the sale 
of ordinary shares by existing investors.
The global offer is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2015. Wizz Air intends to use net proceeds from the 
IPO to strengthen its balance sheet and fund its future growth plans.
József Váradi, Chief Executive Officer of Wizz Air said, "We believe that Wizz Air represents an attractive 
opportunity to invest in the expected growth in the Central and Eastern European air travel markets where a 
combination of deregulation, above average GDP growth, a growing middle class and supportive migration trends in 
an area with a large population is expected to drive higher propensity to air travel and higher LCC penetration."
Hungary-based Wizz Air is a low-cost carrier in Central and Eastern Europe, with a market share of 37.7 percent for 
the six months to September 30, 2014.
Will Second Time Prove Lucky For Wizz Air As It Resurrects IPO Plans?
The airline, established in 2003, provides low-cost air transportation services on scheduled short-haul and medium-
haul point-to-point routes across Europe and into the Caucasus and the Middle East.
Wizz Air carried over 8.8 million passengers in the first half of 2015, up from 7.5 million passengers in the year-ago 
period. The company recorded a 24 percent increase in revenues for the first half of 2015 to 727 million euros, 
while net profit for the period surged 45 percent to 158.1 million euros.
The airline has a network spanning 37 countries from 18 bases in ten Central and Eastern Europe or CEE countries 
with flights to 106 destinations on over 350 routes.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 5, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Jan traffic up 30pc in a year Ryanair PAX
Ryanair Jan traffic up 30pc in a year; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
February 4, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 79 words
Highlight: Ryanair this morning said that it carried 5.98 million passengers during January, a whopping 30pc more 
than the same month a year ago.
Body
Ryanair this morning said that it carried 5.98 million passengers during January, a whopping 30pc more than the 
same month a year ago.
That equates to 1.3 million more passengers.
Its load factor, an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, rose by 12pc in the year to 83pc, it 
said.
In the 12 months to the end of January, the airline carried 87.8 million travellers, an 8pc increase on the same 
period a year earlier. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 6, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair January Traffic And Load Factor Increase - Quick Facts
Ryanair January Traffic And Load Factor Increase - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
February 4, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 134 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L,RYAAY) said that its traffic for the month of January 
2015 rose 30% to 5.98 million customers from 4.6 million customers in the same month of prior year.
Monthly load factor improved 12 percent to 83 percent from 71 percent last year.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said,"Ryanair traffic grew by 1.3m (+30%) to 5.98m customers in 
January, while our load factor rose by 12% points to 83%, thanks to our lower fares and the continuing success of 
our "Always Getting Better" customer programme, which delivered stronger forward bookings and better than 
expected load factors across our significantly expanded winter schedule."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 4, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair warns it will lose altitude on fuel hedging; Travel & leisure
Ryanair warns it will lose altitude on fuel hedging; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 416 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: Carrier to miss out on low prices as it raises profit guidance for fifth time
Body
Ryanair warned yesterday that it would miss out on big gains from the plunging cost of fuel as it raised its full-year 
profit guidance for a fifth time and said that it would be launching a EUR400m share buy-back.
Europe's biggest budget airline is locked into hedging contracts that will see it buy 90 per cent of its fuel for 2014-15 
at an average of $95 a barrel, dipping to $92 the following year.
"While we are still finalising our budget, we believe that any growth in profits will be modest as our fuel is hedged at 
$92 a barrel," said Michael O'Leary , chief executive.
He said that some rivals who were unhedged would reap significant benefits. Fuel accounted for about 45 per cent 
of costs in Ryanair's third quarter to the end of last year.
Neil Sorahan , the airline's chief financial officer, said that passengers would gain from the drop in oil price, as fares 
fell by an expected 6 to 8 per cent this quarter.
He said that traffic in the three months to the end of March would increase by 25 per cent, bringing full-year traffic 
for the airline to about 90m passengers.
Ryanair warns it will lose altitude on fuel hedging; Travel & leisure
Mr O'Leary's cautious tone was intended as a warning to investors against exuberance, even as the Irish no-frills 
carrier said that net profit for its year to the end of March would be between EUR840m and EUR850m - up from the 
range of EUR810m to EUR830m that it gave in December.
Shares - which have risen more than 57 per cent during the past year - closed 6 per cent down at EUR9.78 
yesterday.
Ryanair also signalled that it would return to the bond markets as soon as the summer. It wants to raise about 
EUR750m to EUR850m, after raising EUR850m last summer.
The company has ambitious growth plans to almost double its annual passenger traffic to 160m by 2024. It has had 
to adjust its business model to win over more customers.
It has softened its previously abrasive image, sought to attract higher-paying business travellers and started to fly to 
more primary airports.
The carrier bounced back from a loss of EUR35m in the third quarter last year to make net profit of EUR84m in the 
same quarter this year, ahead of analyst consensus of EUR30m.
Passenger numbers rose 14 per cent to 20.8m and its planes were 6 percentage points fuller, at 88 per cent.
Revenue was up 17 per cent to EUR1,132m, while its basic earnings per share were 3.53 cents compared with a 
loss of 2.50 cents in the correspondent period.
The airline will pay a special dividend of EUR0.375 a share, totalling EUR520m, this month.
See Lex and Lombard
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
BT slips on fears of football setback London
BT slips on fears of football setback; London
Financial Times (London, England)
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 23
Length: 394 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Could the bid battle between BT and Sky for English Premier League rights turn out to be a damp squib?
BT drifted 1.1 per cent to 413.1p yesterday awaiting this week's first-round bids from the television rights auction .
UBS reckoned BT would be less aggressive than investors expected because it had to work around Ofcom's " 
margin squeeze " test, which governs how much it can charge rivals for access to its fibre network.
BT's consumer arm gives away sports channels to subscribers yet needs to keep making a profit on fibre, to show 
that rivals can do the same. UBS estimated that BT's current profit per fibre subscriber was £3 a month.
Assuming BT retains its existing minority share of the rights at a 45 per cent increase, the margin would fall to just 
£1, UBS said. The broker's base case was for Sky to retain a majority of the rights at a cost of £1.1bn a year.
Oil stocks underpinned the wider market, lifting the FTSE 100 by 0.5 per cent, or 33.15 points, to 6,782.55.
BG rose 5.3 per cent to 934.2p ahead of year-end results due tomorrow. BP , with numbers today, was up 3.1 per 
cent to 437.7p. Tullow Oil - rumoured to be among Royal Dutch Shell 's potential takeover targets - bounced 9.3 
per cent to 399p.
BT slips on fears of football setback London
Shell B added 3.1 per cent to £21.71 even after Morgan Stanley turned cautious. Shell promises a 6 per cent 
dividend yield but, for as long as Shell management pursues a strategy of preserving capital expenditure, investors 
will demand a high yield, Morgan Stanley argued.
Leading the blue-chip fallers, EasyJet slipped 6.4 per cent to £17.42 after Ryanair cautioned that its 2016 earnings 
growth would be "modest" due largely to long-term fuel hedging. Ryanair was off 6 per cent to EUR9.78.
CRH rose 7.2 per cent to £17.18 as forecast upgrades followed its EUR6.5bn bid for assets sold by Lafarge and 
Holcim.
Barclays edged 0.7 per cent higher to 235.9p after Goldman Sachs added the stock to its "conviction buy" list. 
Market volatility in January should benefit Barclays' investment bank revenues more than rivals, Goldman said.
Standard Chartered slipped to a new six-year low, down 0.8 per cent to 881p.
Regulatory capital requirements are moving higher while StanChart's buffer is eroding, JPMorgan Cazenove said.
Afren was squeezed 88.7 per cent higher to 10p after lenders gave the ailing explorer a further month to pay debts 
due on January 31.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Manners maketh Mike
Manners maketh Mike
Financial Times (London, England)
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 20
Length: 309 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
In the past, Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary habitually ignored Granny's advice: "If you can't say anything 
nice, don't say anything at all." His no-frills airline offended fat people and swore at British Airways in its advertising. 
But a politer image has helped win new passengers, fuelling forecast-beating quarterly net profits of EUR49m and a 
full-year profits upgrade .
A mannerly response from investors is appropriate, as follows:
  Well played, Mr O'Leary, sir . Your "Always Getting Better" programme to woo customers has borne fruit in a 6 
percentage point increase in seats filled to 88 per cent. A growing band of gentleman business travellers are raising 
their hats to your stewardesses.
  A payout worth EUR920m?How very thoughtful. Ryanair will follow a EUR520m special dividend with a 
EUR400m share buyback. It would be discourteous to note that the shares are pricey at about EUR10.2, where 
they trade on a forward earnings multiple of 17 times. Net cash is EUR447m and the airline is set to retain a 
surplus, even without selling its stake in Aer Lingus.
  Commiserations to the plucky runners-up. Economy airlines such as Ryanair have undermined the pricing 
power of cost-burdened flag carriers. Some are reducing flights from big airports such as Rome Fiumicino. That 
frees up landing slots for Ryanair, which often flies to airports that are a lengthy hansom cab ride from the cities 
notionally served.
Manners maketh Mike
  Bon voyage et bonne chance. Panmure believes the low oil price could be worth EUR300m in extra profits by 
2016-17. Ryanair warns that having hedged a big chunk of future fuel costs at $92-95 per barrel, persistently low 
prices would allow unhedged operators to discount tickets, forcing it to respond. Bowing deeply, Lombard ventures 
to observe that Ryanair often under promises and then over delivers.
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com 
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
BT slips on fears of setback in football broadcasting rights London
BT slips on fears of setback in football broadcasting rights; London
Financial Times (London, England)
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 29
Length: 496 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Could the bid battle between BT Group and Sky for English Premier League rights turn out to be a damp squib?
BT drifted 1.1 per cent to 413.1p yesterday awaiting this week's first-round bids from the television rights auction. 
UBS reckoned BT would be less aggressive than investors expected because it had to work around Ofcom's " 
margin squeeze " test, which governs how much it can charge rivals for access to its fibre network.
BT's consumer arm gives away sports channels to subscribers yet needs to keep making a profit on fibre, to show 
that rivals can do the same. UBS estimated that BT's current profit per fibre subscriber was £3 a month.
Assuming BT retains its existing minority share of the rights at a 45 per cent increase, the margin would fall to just 
£1, UBS said. The broker's base case was for Sky to retain a majority of the rights at a cost of £1.1bn a year.
Oil stocks underpinned the wider market, lifting the FTSE 100 by 0.5 per cent, or 33.15 points, to 6,782.55.
BG rose 5.3 per cent to 934.2p ahead of year-end results due tomorrow. BP , with numbers today, was up 3.1 per 
cent to 437.7p. Tullow Oil - rumoured to be among Royal Dutch Shell 's potential takeover targets - bounced 9.3 
per cent to 399p. Shell B added 3.1 per cent to £21.71 even after Morgan Stanley turned cautious. Shell promises a 
6 per cent dividend yield but, for as long as Shell management pursues a strategy of preserving capital expenditure, 
investors will demand a high yield, Morgan Stanley argued.
BT slips on fears of setback in football broadcasting rights London
Leading the blue-chip fallers, EasyJet slipped 6.4 per cent to £17.42 after Ryanair cautioned that its 2016 earnings 
growth would be "modest" owing largely to long-term fuel hedging. Ryanair was off 6 per cent to EUR9.78.
CRH rose 7.2 per cent to £17.18 as forecast upgrades followed its EUR6.5bn bid for assets sold by Lafarge and 
Holcim.
"CRH's management is delivering on its promise of recycling capital from businesses disposed of at high multiples 
into new operations at substantially lower valuations," Davy said.
Barclays edged 0.7 per cent higher to 235.9p after Goldman Sachs added the stock to its "conviction buy" list.
Market volatility in January should benefit Barclays' investment bank revenues more than rivals, given that 
Deutsche Bank is in the middle of a strategic review and the Swiss banks are likely to be focused on the fallout from 
the franc, Goldman said.
Standard Chartered slipped to a new six-year low, down 0.8 per cent to 881p.
Regulatory capital requirements are moving higher while StanChart's buffer is eroding, JPMorgan Cazenove said.
Its analysts reckoned that StanChart should raise capital by selling its non-controlling stakes in Asian lenders 
including Agricultural Bank of China.
Afren was squeezed 88.7 per cent higher to 10p after lenders gave the ailing explorer a further month to pay debts 
due on January 31.
Nearly 15 per cent of Afren's free float has been lent to short sellers, which is up from about 1 per cent at the start 
of the year.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
IAG seeks to ease fears on Aer Lingus Irish backing sought for EUR1.35bn bid  Group in promise to Dublin 
over Heathrow slots
IAG seeks to ease fears on Aer Lingus;  Irish backing sought for EUR1.35bn 
bid  Group in promise to Dublin over Heathrow slots
Financial Times (London, England)
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 15
Length: 417 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger and Jane Wild in London and Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
Willie Walsh , chief executive of International Airlines Group, has promised to leave ownership of valuable take-off 
and landing slots at Heathrow with Aer Lingus if the Irish government agrees to back its EUR1.35bn bid for the 
country's flag carrier.
The move to quell the mounting political outcry over a sale of Dublin's 25.1 per cent stake in Aer Lingus came a day 
after Enda Kenny, prime minister, challenged IAG to give "cast iron permanent guarantees" on Irish routes into 
Britain. The UK-based group - formed from the 2011 merger of British Airways and Spain's Iberia - has also 
pledged to continue operating Aer Lingus' 23 pairs of slots at London's Heathrow airport on Irish routes for five 
years. Although this may address some political criticisms, the fact IAG could switch the Heathrow slots to 
destinations other than Ireland after five years may still fuel concerns.
Mr Kenny intervened at the weekend as the IAG bid for Aer Lingus became a heated issue in the run-up to Ireland's 
general election next year.
The Heathrow slots are seen by many Irish politicians as essential to keeping Ireland connected to the rest of the 
world, and Aer Lingus shares have fallen close to 10 per cent in the past five days, reflecting rising investor concern 
over whether Dublin is willing to back IAG's bid.
IAG seeks to ease fears on Aer Lingus Irish backing sought for EUR1.35bn bid  Group in promise to Dublin 
over Heathrow slots
IAG said the group's commitments on Aer Lingus meant that the Irish carrier's Heathrow slots could not be leased 
out to other airlines for more than a short period. The group will also promise to retain Aer Lingus' name and its 
headquarters and registration in Ireland.
Mr Walsh said IAG was committed to enhancing Aer Lingus' connectivity into Heathrow. "We propose to offer [the 
Irish government] legally binding commitments that go well beyond the protections currently available to it."
But Timmy Dooley, transport spokesman of Irish opposition party Fianna Fáil, said the commitments rang "hollow" 
and that the five-year guarantee fell "well short of the mark". "Fianna Fáil remains entirely opposed to the sale of 
the government's stake in Aer Lingus, believing the takeover has the potential to seriously undermine Ireland's 
connectivity, as well as having a negative impact on jobs," he said.
IAG has made its bid conditional on acceptance by Ryanair and the Irish government, which are the two largest 
shareholders in Aer Lingus.
Michael O'Leary , chief executive of Ryanair, which holds 29.9 per cent of Aer Lingus, said the concerns about Aer 
Lingus and its Heathrow slots were unwarranted.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair : gloomy place
Ryanair: gloomy place
Financial Times (London, England)
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 14
Length: 313 words
Body
Listen to Eeyore for long enough and you are sure to become depressed too. For months, Ryanair has been 
spreading a message of gloom: pressure on prices; too much competition; too much capacity. Phooey, has been 
the response. As the oil price has fallen, Ryanair 's shares have moved in the opposite direction, up 53 per cent in 
the past six months. They have beaten the MSCI European airlines index by six percentage points.
Until now. Although the company's quarterly profits of EUR49m handsomely beat expectations of EUR30m (in a 
seasonally weak period), the share price fell 7 per cent yesterday. A sharp rally in the oil price, up by a 10th since 
Thursday, suggesting rising costs to come, did not help. But the company's downbeat message may finally be 
getting through.
Perversely, the threat to Ryanair comes via high-cost, highly indebted rival airlines. These companies cannot afford 
as much fuel price protection as their low-cost rival. According to Nomura, both Air France-KLM (55 per cent 
hedged for 2015) and Lufthansa (65 per cent) have less of their fuel costs covered than Ryanair at 90 per cent. The 
latter worries that these rivals will gain more from the falling fuel price, and pass the savings on.
Ryanair's management deserves credit for trying to keep market expectations grounded. Jet fuel trades about 50 
per cent below last year's peak, so it is easy to get overexcited. Ryanair gave a clear signal of price "softening" on 
forward bookings made during January. Worse, it promised up to 8 per cent fare discounts in the next quarter - read 
price war - which led to the share price fall.
Ryanair : gloomy place
But even after that, Ryanair shares trade at about 14 times forecast earnings - a healthy premium to the MSCI 
European airlines index at less than 10 times. Moreover, Ryanair's multiple sits near the top of its five-year range. 
Eeyore will no doubt have more to moan about.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Aggregates firm lifts FTSE as oil drama goes on In association with CITY YOUR ONESTOP SHOP BROKER 
VIEWS AND MARKET REPORTS CITYDASHBOARD ; LONDON REPORT
Aggregates firm lifts FTSE as oil drama goes on; In association with CITY 
YOUR ONESTOP SHOP BROKER VIEWS AND MARKET REPORTS 
CITYDASHBOARD ; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 17
Length: 387 words
Body
IRISH building supplies groups CRH offset a drop in airlines after Ryanair warned on its profit outlook to push the 
FTSE index higher yesterday.
Shares in CRH, one of the top gainers in the FTSE 100 index , rose 7.2 per cent after the company said it had 
agreed to pay (EURO)6.5bn (£4.9bn) for assets that Lafarge and Holcim need to sell to secure regulatory approval 
for their planned merger.
CRH, the leading producer of asphalt for road building in the US, said the deal would expand its reach and make it 
the largest building supplier in central and eastern Europe.
"CRH has a history of acquisition and successfully integrating businesses into its operations. This deal will be large, 
adding 26 percent to our expected sales figure for 2014," Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Ian Osburn said.
The FTSE 100 index closed up 33.15 points yesterday, or 0.5 per cent at 6,782.55 points, after closing 0.9 per cent 
lower on Friday.
Budget airlines came under pressure after Ryanair, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, said profit 
growth would be modest next year as low oil prices helped rivals step up competition.
The low-cost carrier fell 6.1 per cent, despite again raising its profit forecast. It said it would benefit only slightly from 
lower jet fuel costs this year because it has hedged 90 per cent of its fuel needs at $92 per barrel up until March 
2016.
Aggregates firm lifts FTSE as oil drama goes on In association with CITY YOUR ONESTOP SHOP BROKER 
VIEWS AND MARKET REPORTS CITYDASHBOARD ; LONDON REPORT
While Ryanair is not a FTSE 100 member, airlines EasyJet and IAG were the top fallers on the index, losing 6.4 per 
cent and 2.8 per cent, respectively.
"Ryanair has always had particular difficulty hedging its oil. It's very difficult to hedge when you're not sure where 
the bottom is, but I think other airlines are in the same boat," said Brenda Kelly at IG.
Oil volatility hit energy stocks again in yesterday's trading, with the sector up 3.3 per cent, following an eight per 
cent jump in oil on Friday on a record weekly drop in US oil drilling. They reversed an early fall to gain yesterday.
Tullow Oil surged 9.3 per cent, set for its biggest rise since 2011 to become the top FTSE 100 gainer, but remains 
down more than 50 per cent since last June.
Oil firm Afren closed nearly 90 per cent higher in strong volume after lenders agreed to defer a $50m amortisation 
payment by a month, saying it would also delay the payment of a $15m bond coupon by a month.
Load-Date: February 3, 2015
End of Document
RYANAIR PLANS SHARE BUYBACK
RYANAIR PLANS SHARE BUYBACK
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 4
Length: 35 words
Body
ABSTRACT
Photo of Ryanair flight landing;  budget airline plans to launch 400 million-euro ($452 million) share-repurchase 
program, having lifted its full-year earnings outlook and reported 49 million-euro profit
Graphic
 
Photograph
Load-Date: February 4, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair shares down despite growing passenger numbers
Ryanair shares down despite growing passenger numbers
City A.M.
February 3, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 168 words
Byline: SARAH SPICKERNELL
Body
DISCOUNT carrier Ryanair revealed a boosted earnings outlook yet again yesterday, with profits expected to reach 
(EURO)840m-(EURO)850m (£630m-£638m) during the 12 months to 31 March 2015.
This is up from the (EURO)810m-(EURO)830m forecast issued less than two months ago on 4 December.
The company also posted a (EURO)49m net profit for the three months to 31 December, exceeding third quarter 
expectations of (EURO)28m.
It said the improved outlook was due to greater passenger volume this year compared to the equivalent period in 
2013-2014, and also lower fuel costs.
As a result, Ryanair is launching a buyback programme of (EURO)400m shares, to be completed between now and 
August this year.
The news failed to impress investors, however, with shares diving to a closing price of (EURO)9.78 per share, a 
6.01 per cent fall.
The airline said investors should remain cautious because fuel price is hedged at $92 per barrel, whereas many of 
its competitors would be "significant beneficiaries" of lower oil costs."
Graphic
 
Ryanair shares down despite growing passenger numbers
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said the airline has headged oil at $92 a barrel
Load-Date: February 3, 2015
End of Document
FTSE lifts higher FTSE
FTSE lifts higher; FTSE
Business World (Digest)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 414 words
Highlight: Britain's top share index edged up in morning trading on Monday, with Irish building supplies groups 
CRH leading the market higher after agreeing to buy assets from rivals.
Body
Britain's top share index edged up in morning trading on Monday, with Irish building supplies groups CRH leading 
the market higher after agreeing to buy assets from rivals.
Shares in CRH rose 6 percent, the top gainer in the blue-chip FTSE 100 index, after the company said it had 
agreed to pay 6.5 billion euros for assets that Lafarge and Holcim needed to sell to secure regulatory approval for 
their planned merger.
"The metrics highlighted by management look attractive. Earnings are expected to grow by 25 percent in the first 
full year of ownership, with the deal leaving CRH in the global top three building materials companies," said Keith 
Bowman, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown.
CRH, the leading producer of asphalt for road building in the United States, said the deal would expand its global 
reach and also make it the largest building supplier in central and eastern Europe. "CRH has a history of acquisition 
and successfully integrating businesses into its operations. This deal will be large, adding 26 percent to our 
expected sales figure for 2014," Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Ian Osburn said. The benchmark FTSE 100 index was up 
0.3 percent at 6,770.56 points by 0928 GMT after closing 0.9 percent lower on Friday. It was also helped by a rally 
in UK energy stocks , up 1.7 percent, following an 8 percent jump in oil prices on Friday on a record weekly drop in 
U.S. oil drilling. However, gains were trimmed by a drop in oil prices on Monday. "Crude oil prices are still much 
higher than their levels at the time of stock market closing in London on Friday and that's providing some support to 
energy stocks," said John Smith, senior fund manager at Brown Shipley. "However, the problems in the oil sector 
will stay for quite some time and we don't see a stabilisation in oil prices anytime soon. The rally that we are seeing 
in oil stocks today is an opportunity to reduce some exposure to the sector." On the downside, budget airlines came 
under pressure after Ryanair, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, cautioned that profit growth will be 
modest next year as low oil prices help rivals to step up competition. Ryanair fell 3.7 percent despite again raising 
FTSE lifts higher FTSE
its profit forecast, with the company saying it would benefit only slightly from lower jet fuel costs this year as it has 
hedged 90 percent of its fuel needs at dollar 92 per barrel up to March 2016. Another budget airline easyJet fell 4 
percent. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 4, 2015
End of Document
Ireland 's CRH leads FTSE higher CRH Rise
Ireland's CRH leads FTSE higher; CRH Rise
Business World (Digest)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 409 words
Highlight: Britain's top share index edged higher today, with a surge in Irish building supplies groups CRH offset by 
a drop in airlines after Ryanair warned on its profit outlook.
Body
Britain's top share index edged higher today, with a surge in Irish building supplies groups CRH offset by a drop in 
airlines after Ryanair warned on its profit outlook.
Shares in CRH, one of the top gainers in the FTSE 100 index , rose 7.2 percent after the company said it had 
agreed to pay 6.5 billion euros for assets that Lafarge and Holcim need to sell to secure regulatory approval for their 
planned merger.
CRH, the leading producer of asphalt for road building in the United States, said the deal would expand its reach 
and make it the largest building supplier in central and eastern Europe.
"CRH has a history of acquisition and successfully integrating businesses into its operations. This deal will be large, 
adding 26 percent to our expected sales figure for 2014," Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Ian Osburn said. The FTSE 100 
index closed up 33.15 points, or 0.5 percent at 6,782.55 points, after closing 0.9 percent lower on Friday. Budget 
airlines came under pressure after Ryanair, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, said profit growth would 
be modest next year as low oil prices helped rivals step up competition. Ryanair fell 6.1 percent despite again 
raising its profit forecast. It said it would benefit only slightly from lower jet fuel costs this year because it has 
hedged 90 percent of its fuel needs at dollar 92 per barrel up until March 2016. While Ryanair is not a FTSE 100 
member, airlines easyJet and IAG were the top fallers on the index, losing 6.4 percent and 2.8 percent respectively. 
"Ryanair has always had particular difficulty hedging its oil. It's very difficult to hedge when you're not sure where 
the bottom is, but I think other airlines are in the same boat," said Brenda Kelly, chief market strategist at IG. Oil 
volatility hit energy stocks again on Monday, with the sector up 3.3 percent, following an 8 percent jump in oil on 
Friday on a record weekly drop in U.S. oil drilling. They reversed an early fall to gain on Monday. Tullow Oil surged 
9.3 percent, set for its biggest rise since 2011 to become the top FTSE 100 gainer, but remains down more than 50 
percent since last June. "The problems in the oil sector will stay for quite some time and we don't see a stabilisation 
Ireland 's CRH leads FTSE higher CRH Rise
in oil prices anytime soon. The rally that we are seeing in oil stocks today is an opportunity to reduce some 
exposure to the sector," said John Smith, senior fund manager at Brown Shipley. For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 5, 2015
End of Document
Kenny comments on Aer Lingus sale Aviation
Kenny comments on Aer Lingus sale; Aviation
Business World (Digest)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 397 words
Highlight: The owner of British Airways must provide some sort of "cast iron permanent guarantee" on flights to 
Ireland if the government is to even consider its bid for Aer Lingus, Prime Minister Enda Kenny said on Sunday.
Body
The owner of British Airways must provide some sort of "cast iron permanent guarantee" on flights to Ireland if the 
government is to even consider its bid for Aer Lingus, Prime Minister Enda Kenny said on Sunday.
Aer Lingus's board on Tuesday recommended a 1.36-billion-euro offer from International Consolidated Airlines 
Group (IAG), subject to the agreement of its two largest shareholders -- budget airline Ryanair and the Irish state.
Under pressure from the airline's trade unions and opponents in parliament, resistance is building within 
government around parting with its 25 percent holding, weighing on the airline's shares as IAG decides on a formal 
bid.
"If IAG are going to come to the table in the next few days, then I need to see, in so far as this is possible, a cast 
iron permanent guarantee in respect of connectivity for Cork, for Shannon, Dublin and a lesser extent Knock," 
Kenny told national broadcaster RTE, referring to regions the airline flies to. "I'm also cognisant of the voices of 
those far more experienced in business than I who say that this kind of guarantee might be difficult to get... We're in 
a limited influential position here." Kenny said such guarantees would only form part of the government's decision 
but later wrote on his Twitter page that they would be needed "before gov can even consider selling its stake in Aer 
Lingus." A successful takeover would give IAG more take-off and landing slots at London Heathrow Airport, BA's 
home base and a major European hub for international flights. Government MPs fear some slots would no longer 
be used to service Ireland. IAG intends to operate Aer Lingus as a separate business with its own brand and said it 
recognises the importance of direct air services for investment and tourism in Ireland. Kenny said he needed to see 
flesh on those initial intentions. But he was also concerned about what may happen after Willie Walsh's term as IAG 
boss ends. The Dublin-born executive began his career as an Aer Lingus pilot before eventually running the airline, 
and is also chairman of Ireland's debt agency. "Long after Willie Walsh leaves IAG, what is the position? I'm worried 
Kenny comments on Aer Lingus sale Aviation
and concerned about the future of the country... Many of the multinationals, exporters look for the future economy, 
we cannot afford to lose anything that we have," Kenny said. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 4, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair warns oil price to hit profits Ryanair Warns
Ryanair warns oil price to hit profits; Ryanair Warns
Business World (Digest)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 511 words
Highlight: Ryanair cautioned today that profits would only rise modestly in the year ahead as low oil prices help 
rivals to cut fares, taking the shine off its third profit upgrade in as many months for the year ending in March.
Body
Ryanair cautioned today that profits would only rise modestly in the year ahead as low oil prices help rivals to cut 
fares, taking the shine off its third profit upgrade in as many months for the year ending in March.
Ryanair, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, has increased its profit forecast for the current financial 
year by over 30 percent since it reported stellar half-year results three months ago, due to improvements in its 
much berated customer service that have boosted fares and passenger numbers.
That helped it to announce a new 400 million-euro share buyback programme on Monday but the Irish airline 
cautioned that it was braced for greater competition on fares in the year ahead from rivals who are already 
benefiting from the drop in the oil price, whereas Ryanair is locked into a higher price because of its forward buying 
scheme.
Ryanair has hedged 90 percent of fuel needs for the year ending March 2016 at dollar 92 per barrel, about double 
the current price after the plunge in benchmark Brent crude LCOc1 in recent months, meaning it will only benefit 
slightly from lower jet fuel costs this year. It has hedged 35 percent of its full-year 2017 needs at a much lower 
dollar 68 per barrel but it noted on Monday that many rivals who do not hedge out as far may be able to lower their 
prices further, leading to lower overall fares in 2015/16. "In our view, (the share buy back) emphasises the ongoing 
strength of Ryanair's balance sheet and cash generation, even if management wants to inject some caution into the 
outlook for 2016," analysts at Liberum said. Other major European airlines typically hedge up to between 60 and 85 
percent of their fuel needs for the coming year on a rolling basis. Locking in prices gives them certainty over what is 
one of their biggest cost items and helps to smooth out fluctuations. For this year, however, Ryanair has seen 
strong demand, helping it to lift its net profit forecast to between 840 million euros and 850 million euros (dollar 949-
dollar 961 million) for the year ending in March, up from a previous forecast of 810 million euros to 830 million 
euros. It had predicted a net profit of up to 650 million euros as recently as September. It said it expects traffic to 
Ryanair warns oil price to hit profits Ryanair Warns
grow by 25 percent in the three months to the end of March, up from a prior estimate of 20 percent, while fares 
would fall by 6-8 percent. Ryanair said it also intends to pass on much, if not all, of next year's forecast 8 percent 
fall in fuel costs per passenger in the form of lower fares, raising the prospect of intense price competition among 
European airlines in the coming months. "Some of the weaker guys will get an immediate reprieve but they still 
have the fundamental other issues in their business," Ryanair's chief financial officer Neil Sorahan told Reuters in a 
telephone interview. "They still don't have the advantage that we have of a very, very low ex-fuel cost per 
passenger, some 70 percent lower than the next closest, easyJet. Hedging is all about certainty." For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 4, 2015
End of Document
UK Market Up, But Ryanair Falls
UK Market Up, But Ryanair Falls
RTT News (United States)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 436 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market was higher on Monday afternoon, after the nation's manufacturing sector growth 
remained strong in January and Eurozone's manufacturing activity grew at a faster rate, confirming the flash 
estimate.
Final figures from Markit Economics revealed that the final Eurozone Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index 
rose to 51 in January from 50.6 in December.
The German manufacturing sector expanded at a slower than expected rate in January while the French 
manufacturing activity contracted at a slightly faster than expected pace though the rate of contraction was slowest 
in eight months.
Meanwhile, the U.K. manufacturing sector growth remained strong in January, data from Markit Economics showed. 
The Markit/Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 53 in January from a 
revised score of 52.7 in December. The score also exceeded the expected level of 52.8.
The Chinese manufacturing sector contracted slightly more than the initially estimated in January, although the 
contraction slowed from the previous month. The results of the latest survey from HSBC revealed that the 
manufacturing PMI came in at 49.7 in January, slightly less than the flash estimate of 49.8. However, the score was 
marginally more than the 49.6 reading in December.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks was losing 0.55 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, was falling 0.70 percent.
The FTSE 100 index was adding 0.35 percent.
CRH climbed close to 5 percent after announcing the purchase of certain assets from European cement giants 
Lafarge and Holcim. Oil firms BG Group and Tullow Oil were gaining around 4.2 percent each.
Ryanair lost around 5 percent. The low-cost airline said that for fiscal 2016, it expects a modest profit growth.
Other markets in the region also advanced.
UK Market Up, But Ryanair Falls
The Asian stocks ended mixed as weaker-than-expected U.S. GDP data and disappointing reports on China's 
manufacturing sector sapped investors' appetite for risk. Australian shares extended gains for an eighth straight 
session as hopes for rate cuts outweighed global growth concerns.
In the U.S., futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks ended firmly in the red, with 
the Dow Jones industrial Average and the S&P 500 falling over a percent each to post their biggest monthly losses 
in a year.
Crude for March delivery fell $0.53 to $47.71 per barrel, while April gold fell $4.2 to $1275.0 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
European Stocks Seen Subdued After China Data
European Stocks Seen Subdued After China Data
RTT News (United States)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 604 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets may follow Asian stocks lower on Monday as a couple of reports underscored 
the inherent weakness of the world's second-largest economy.
China's factory activity sector shrank for the first time in more than two years in January, an official report showed, 
adding to pressure on the government to unveil more measures to boost growth. The official Purchasing Managers' 
Index (PMI) fell to 49.8, marking its second consecutive monthly decline and surprising economists who were 
expecting an expansion. The final HSBC PMI also fell to 49.7, slightly lower than a preliminary flash reading of 49.8.
While Chinese shares led losses in the Asia-Pacific region, the Australian market extended gains for an eighth day 
on expectations the Reserve Bank of Australia will cut interest rates at its policy meeting tomorrow.
Looking ahead, investors eye a slew of U.S. reports on personal income and spending, manufacturing and service 
sector activity and private sector employment this week ahead of the all-important monthly jobs report due on 
Friday. Manufacturing PMI data of Germany and UK are slated for release in the European session.
The safe-haven Japanese yen remains little changed while the Russian ruble continues to fall after its central bank 
on Friday cut its key interest rate to support a deteriorating economy. Oil prices fell in Asian deals, cutting some of 
the strong gains made on Friday in the wake of data showing a sharp drop in U.S. drilling.
In news out of Ukraine, at least 13 Ukrainian soldiers have reportedly been killed and 20 others wounded since 
peace talks with pro-Russian rebels collapsed on Saturday. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry plans to visit Kiev 
on Thursday as part of efforts to initiate fresh talks over sending lethal aid to Ukraine's beleaguered troops.
In domestic corporate news, Shire Plc announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved the 
extended use of its blockbuster drug Vyvanse to treat binge-eating disorder in adults.
Irish building materials company CRH Plc has agreed to acquire assets from cement companies Lafarge SA and 
Holcim for 6.5 billion euros.
Swiss private banking group Julius Baer Group reported a 96 percent jump in its full year IFRS net profit to 367 
million Swiss francs.
Ryanair, Europe's low fares airline, reported third-quarter net profit of 49 million euros compared to a loss of 35 
million euros last year.
European Stocks Seen Subdued After China Data
European stocks fell on Friday, with weak US GDP and Eurozone inflation data weighing on the markets. Investors 
also kept a keen eye over developments in Greece after Eurogroup head Jeroen Dijsselbloem warned Athens 
against taking unilateral steps and ignoring previous arrangements. The German DAX dropped 0.4 percent, 
France's CAC 40 shed 0.6 percent and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 fell 0.9 percent.
U.S. stocks also ended firmly in the red Friday, with the Dow Jones industrial Average and the S&P 500 falling over 
a percent each to post their biggest monthly losses in a year, as investors weighed the consequences of a weaker-
than-expected GDP reading and a strengthening dollar on corporate earnings. Meanwhile, traders largely shrugged 
off separate reports showing consumer sentiment at an eleven-year high and acceleration in the pace of growth in 
Chicago business activity.
The Commerce Department said U.S. GDP grew 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter, down from 5 percent in the third 
quarter and 4.6 percent in the second quarter. Economists had expected GDP to increase by about 3.2 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Lifts FY15 Profit View, Sees Modest Growth In FY16; Stock Down
Ryanair Lifts FY15 Profit View, Sees Modest Growth In FY16; Stock Down
RTT News (United States)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 497 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Monday a profit in its third quarter, compared to last 
year's loss, boosted by strong growth in revenues and traffic. The Europe's low fares airline further announced a 
special dividend and a 400 million euros share buyback program.
Going ahead, the company lifted its fiscal 2015 profit view, while maintaining traffic forecast. Further, for fiscal 2016, 
the company expects a modest profit growth. The shares were losing around 4 percent in the morning trading in 
London.
For the third quarter, the company generated net profit of 49 million euros, compared to a loss of 35 million euros in 
the prior year. Basic earnings per share was 3.53 euro cents, compared to a loss of 2.50 euro cents.
Unit costs fell 6 percent from last year, while costs were flat excluding fuel.
Revenues grew 17 percent to 1.13 billion euros from prior year's 964 million euros.
Traffic grew 14 percent to 20.8 million customers from prior year's 18.3 million, as average fare rose 2 percent to 40 
euros. Load Factors rose 6 percent points to 88 percent from 82 percent last year.
Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary, said, "These strong results confirm that our "Always Getting Better" customer 
programme and our expanded business schedules, coupled with our substantial fare and cost advantage over 
competitor airlines is drawing millions of new customers to Ryanair."
The company added that its new winter routes and bases are performing well.
Further, Ryanair said a 520 million euros special dividend, representing 0.375 euros per share, will be paid on 27 
February. In addition, the Board of Ryanair has approved a 400 million euros share buy-back programme to 
commence on February 12. This systemic programme will be executed over a 6 month period from February to 
August 2015, subject to market conditions.
Looking ahead for fiscal 2015, the company said it is raising net profit guidance to a range of 840 million euros to 
850 million euros from previously estimated range of 810 million euros to 830 million euros.
The upward revision reflects unit costs that will fall by 5 percent due to lower oil prices as well as stronger load 
factors.
Ryanair Lifts FY15 Profit View, Sees Modest Growth In FY16; Stock Down
Ryanair continues to expect that full-year traffic will rise to just over 90 million, as load factors rise to 87 percent. 
Fourth-quarter traffic is expected to grow approximately 25 percent but average fares will fall by 6 percent to 8 
percent as the firm uses lower fares to expand its network and develop business schedules.
For fiscal 2016, the company said it is still finalising budget, yet it believes that any growth in profits will be modest 
as fuel is hedged at $92 pbl. Some competitors will be significant beneficiaries of lower oil prices and this may lead 
to downward pressure on airfares in 2015/16, the company noted.
In London, Ryanair shares were losing 4.13 percent, and trading at 9.97 pence.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Finished Mixed Due To U.S. Weakness
European Markets Finished Mixed Due To U.S. Weakness
RTT News (United States)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 929 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets ended the first day of trading in February with mixed results. Investor 
sentiment was impacted by some disappointing manufacturing data from Germany and France. Disappointing U.S. 
economic data, coupled with the weak early performance of the U.S. markets weighed on Europe in the afternoon. 
Energy stocks were among the best performers Monday as oil prices continued to recover and Exxon Mobil 
reported better than expected quarterly earnings.
Eurozone's manufacturing activity grew at a faster rate in January, confirming the flash estimate, final figures from 
Markit Economics showed Monday. The final Eurozone Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index, or PMI, rose to 
51 in January from 50.6 in December. This was unrevised from the flash estimate.
German manufacturing sector expanded at a slower than expected rate in January while French manufacturing 
activity contracted at a slightly faster than expected pace though the rate of contraction was slowest in eight 
months, final data from Markit Economics showed Monday.
Germany's Purchasing Managers' Index fell to 50.9, less than the flash estimate of 51, from December's 51.2.
At the same time, the French manufacturing PMI rose to 49.2 in January from 47.5 in December, marking the 
slowest pace of contraction in eight months. However, the score was slightly below the flash estimate of 49.3.
The U.K. manufacturing sector started the year on a firmer footing as output and new orders ticked higher following 
a slowdown seen in the latter half of 2014, data from Markit Economics showed Monday. The Markit/Chartered 
Institute of Procurement & Supply Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 53 in January from a revised score of 52.7 in 
December. The score also exceeded the expected level of 52.8.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased by 0.42 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 0.12 percent.
The DAX of Germany climbed by 1.25 percent and the CAC 40 of France gained 0.51 percent. The FTSE 100 of 
the U.K. rose by 0.49 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.53 percent.
In Frankfurt, Deutsche Lufthansa dropped by 3.52 percent and Infineon Technologies lost 1.12 percent.
Deutsche Bank increased by 2.19 percent and Commerzbank rose by 0.89 percent.
European Markets Finished Mixed Due To U.S. Weakness
RWE climbed by 1.58 percent and E.ON added 1.09 percent.
In Paris, Lafarge finished higher by 1.79 percent. The cement giant and Swiss peer Holcim announced sales of 
certain assets to Ireland-based CRH in order to facilitate their merger. Holcim gained 2.33 percent in Zurich.
Total advanced by 3.30 percent and Technip gained 2.80 percent.
In London, Ryanair dropped by 6.01 percent. The low-cost airline said that for fiscal 2016, it expects a modest profit 
growth.
CRH climbed by 7.17 percent, after announcing the purchase of certain assets from Lafarge and Holcim.
Tullow Oil surged by 9.32 percent and BG Group added 5.33 percent. BP rose by 3.12 percent and Royal Dutch 
Shell gained 2.53 percent.
Julius Baer surged by 8.62 percent in Zurich. The company announced a cost cutting program, to offset the surge in 
the Swiss franc.
The Chinese manufacturing sector contracted slightly more than the initially estimated in January, although the 
contraction slowed from the previous month, the results of the latest survey from HSBC revealed Monday.
Revised estimates based on the final survey showed that the manufacturing purchasing managers' index, or PMI, 
came in at 49.7 in January, slightly less than the flash estimate of 49.8. However, the score was marginally more 
than the 49.6 reading in December. This marked the second consecutive month of contraction.
Personal income in the U.S. rose by slightly more than anticipated in the month of December, according to a report 
released by the Commerce Department on Monday, although the report also showed a slightly bigger than 
expected drop in personal spending.
The report said personal income rose by 0.3 percent in December, matching the downwardly revised increase seen 
in November. Economists had expected income to inch up by 0.2 percent compared to the 0.4 percent growth 
originally reported for the previous month.
Meanwhile, the report said personal spending dipped by 0.3 percent in December after climbing by a downwardly 
revised 0.5 percent in November. Spending had been expected to edge down by 0.2 percent compared to the 0.6 
percent increase originally reported for the previous month.
Partly reflecting problems caused by a West Coast dock slowdown, the Institute for Supply Management released a 
report on Monday showing that U.S. manufacturing activity grew at a slower than expected pace in the month of 
January.
The ISM said its purchasing managers index fell to 53.5 in January from 55.1 in December. While a reading above 
50 indicates continued growth in the manufacturing sector, economists had expected the index to show a more 
modest drop to 54.5.
While the Commerce Department released a report on Monday showing a rebound by U.S. construction spending 
in the month of December, the pace of spending growth fell short of economist estimates. The report said 
construction spending climbed 0.4 percent to an annual rate of $982.1 billion in December after falling 0.2 percent 
to a rate of $978.6 billion in November.
Economists had been expecting construction spending to increase by about 0.6 percent compared to the 0.3 
percent drop originally reported for the previous month.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
European Markets Finished Mixed Due To U.S. Weakness
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Irish Prime Minister calls for more guarantees from British Airways
Irish Prime Minister calls for more guarantees from British Airways
City A.M.
February 2, 2015 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 216 words
Byline: PADRAIC HALPIN
Body
THE OWNER of British Airways must provide some sort of "cast iron permanent guarantee" on flights to Ireland if 
the government is to even consider its bid for Aer Lingus, Prime Minister Enda Kenny said yesterday.
Aer Lingus's board yesterday recommended a (EURO)1.36bn (£996m) offer from International Consolidated 
Airlines Group (IAG), subject to the agreement of its two largest shareholders - budget airline Ryanair and the Irish 
state.
Under pressure from the airline's trade unions and opponents in parliament, resistance is building within 
government around parting with its 25 per cent holding, weighing on the airline''s shares as IAG decides on a formal 
bid. "If IAG are going to come to the table in the next few days, then I need to see, in so far as this is possible, a 
cast iron permanent guarantee in respect of connectivity for Cork, for Shannon, Dublin and a lesser extent Knock," 
Kenny told national broadcaster RTE.
A successful takeover would give IAG more take-off and landing slots at Heathrow. Government MPs fear some 
slots would no longer be used to service Ireland. AG intends to operate Aer Lingus as a separate business with its 
own brand "Long after Willie Walsh leaves IAG, what is the position? I'm worried and concerned about the future of 
the country," Kenny said.
Reuters
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
Irish Prime Minister calls for more guarantees from British Airways
End of Document
Are you a list-loving 'Planner' or an imaginative 'Visualiser'? Working smarter
Are you a list-loving 'Planner' or an imaginative 'Visualiser'?; Working 
smarter
Financial Times (London, England)
February 2, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: BUSINESS LIFE; Pg. 14
Length: 496 words
Byline: Emma De Vita
Body
  A one size fits all approach to personal productivity doesn't work," says Carson Tate, author of Work Simply , in 
which she identifies four main productivity styles. The problem with productivity strategies, she says, is that they do 
not allow individual ways of working and are therefore doomed to failure.
Ms Tate has developed her own productivity style assessment that she says will identify what kind of worker you 
are. Are you a people-focused Arranger, a goal-oriented Prioritiser, a Visualiser or a Planner? Armed with this 
knowledge, you will then be able to pick the tools that are most likely to suit your cognitive style, and therefore have 
the greatest chance of sticking.
For example, a to-do list app will satisfy a Planner but leave a Visualiser cold; they are better off using a mind-map 
to see what needs to be done. When managing email, a Prioritiser should set a numerical goal for the number of 
messages in their inbox at any time, while an Arranger, who is likely to find communicating this way dull, should line 
up treats to help them get through theirs.
"I've distilled down the core systems and tools that you need to be successful, and stripped away what doesn't 
work," says Ms Tate, who claims that her theory of personal productivity could change the way we work. "It's a bold 
claim," she admits nervously. For a book called Work Simply , there are plenty of acronyms, lists and tasks to 
plough through, though Ms Carson points out that the book does not have to be read cover to cover. "One of the 
Are you a list-loving 'Planner' or an imaginative 'Visualiser'? Working smarter
reasons we are so busy is that we end up complicating systems and adding extra work," she says. But is her book 
a smart shortcut to productivity nirvana or just another time consuming theory to add to the pile?
The quiet ones are the most dangerous 
  Are you an extrovert? When it comes to appraisals, beware the introverts on your team, suggests research in the 
Academy of Management Journal. It seems that introverts naturally take against extroverted people and are more 
likely to mark them down on collective performance even if they did as well as less boisterous colleagues. The 
researchers suggest that introverts use peer appraisals to strategically correct a tendency to give extroverts positive 
ratings: the more you shout about what you do, the more your efforts will be noticed. So next time you work on a 
group project, identify how many introverts there are and tame your behaviour accordingly.
What happens when you alter your ego 
  Executives who take personal branding seriously will be interested to learn of Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary's 
experience. He told The Sunday Times that he had cultivated his buffoonish persona to help the young airline get 
noticed. "It was a pastiche," he said. "People sit up and go, wow, who is this guy? You can't have better publicity." 
Yet the supposedly reserved Mr O'Leary now finds his reputation "annoying". The lesson? Pick a professional alter 
ego that suits the long term.
workingsmarter@ft.com 
Load-Date: February 1, 2015
End of Document
Energy stocks lift FTSE as oil breaks through $50
Energy stocks lift FTSE as oil breaks through $50
Citywire
February 2, 2015 Monday 5:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 392 words
Body
The FTSE 100 has closed 33 points, or 0.5%, higher at 6,783 as energy stocks added to gains on a rebound in the 
oil price.
The price of Brent crude continued to rally after strong gains in late Friday trading, hitting $54.28 a barrel, up 2.4% 
on the day. A second day of striking by union workers at nine US refineries has helped to power the rally.
That helped energy stocks on the FTSE 100 add to gains. Tullow Oil (TLW) ended the day the top riser, up 9.3% at 
399p. Other oil stocks at the top of the index were:
BG (BG) +5.3% at 934.2p Weir (WEIR) +3.2% at £17.34 Shell (RDSb) +3.1% at £21.70 BP (BP) +2.8% at 437.7p 
10:12 Energy stocks have driven the FTSE 100 higher after a surge in the oil price prompted by a record weekly fall 
in US oil drilling.
The UK blue-chip index traded 10 points, or 0.2%, higher at 6,759. Oil stocks were among the big risers, including:
BG (BG) +3.8% at 921p Tullow Oil (TLW) + 2.8% at 374.9p Shell (RDSb) + 1.6% at £21.38 Weir (WEIR) +1.3% at 
£17.03 BP (BP) +1.2% at 429.7p The price of Brent crude surged to $53.08 a barrel late on Friday after news that 
the number of rigs drilling for oil in the US had fallen by 7%. Today it subsided to $52.06.
CRH (CRH) rose to the top of the index, up 5.9% to £16.97, after the Irish building supplies group agreed to buy 
assets from rivals Lafarge (LAFP.PA) and Holcim (HOLN.VX) which are making the disposals to secure regulatory 
approval of their plans to merge.
Shire (SHP) rose 2.7% to £49.82 after US regulators backed the pharmaceutical group's new pill to combat binge 
eating.
Airlines were among the fallers, hurt by the oil price jump and Ryanair's (RYA.I) warning that profit growth would be 
modest next year. The Irish budget airliner said it would benefit only slightly from lower fuel costs next year as it had 
hedged 90% of fuel costs at a price of $92 per barrel.
EasyJet (EZJ) was the biggest FTSE 100 faller, down 4.2% at £17.84, while British Airways owner International 
Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) fell 1.5% at 537p.
Energy stocks lift FTSE as oil breaks through $50
'Mid cap' stock Afren (AFRE) continued to recover from the sell-off sparked by the oil producer's debt 
renegotiations, rising 43% to 7.7p.
Ashcourt Rowan (ARPR) was the biggest riser on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM), jumping 55.8% to 
261.6p, after rival Towry tabled a bid for the financial services company valuing it at 270p per share.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Reports Profit In Q3; Revenues Up 17% - Quick Facts
Ryanair Reports Profit In Q3; Revenues Up 17% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
February 2, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 197 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY), Europe's low fares airline, reported third-quarter net profit of 49 million 
euros, compared to a loss of 35 million euros, prior year. Profit per share in euro cents was 3.53, compared to a 
loss of 2.50.
Revenues grew 17% to 1.13 billion euros, while unit costs fell 6% (ex-fuel flat). Traffic grew 14% to 20.8 million 
customers. Load Factors rose 6% points from 82% to 88%.
Ryanair said, as previously guided, its full year traffic will rise to just over 90 million, as load factors rise to 87%. 
Fourth-quarter traffic is expected to grow approx. 25% but ave fares will fall by 6% to 8%.
The company raised fiscal year net profit guidance to a range of 840 million euros to 850 million euros, from a 
range of 810 million euros to 830 million euros.
The company said a 520 million euros special dividend (0.375 euros per share) will be paid on 27 February. The 
Board of Ryanair has approved a 400 million euros share buy-back programme to commence on 12 Feb. This 
systemic programme will be executed over a 6 month period from Feb to August 2015.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Will Aer Lingus deal take flight?
Will Aer Lingus deal take flight?
Sunday Business Post
February 1, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1608 words
Body
On December 10, dozens of Aer Lingus pensioners descended on Dublin Airport's Radisson hotel.
Inside, shareholders were voting on a plan that would inject EUR 190.7 million into and restructure the company's 
ailing defined contribution pension plan, known as the Irish Airlines (General Employees) Superannuation Scheme.
A sizeable chunk of the 15,000 people in the pension plan weren't happy, however, especially the thousands of 
already retired members who faced swingeing cuts to their benefits - some of which amounted to 12 weeks' worth 
of their annual pension payments.
It prompted angry scenes at the Radisson. Vocal opponents banged on windows and yelled their protests from the 
floor, crying 'shame on you' and 'how do you sleep at night' at board members, according to media reports at the 
time.
The protests were immaterial. More than 80 per cent of the company's shareholders voted in favour of the proposal 
and the cuts, and the press coverage in the aftermath of the deal was glowing. Colm Barrington, the airline's 
chairman, told reporters that the company had met all of its obligations. The long and tortuous story of Aer Lingus's 
ailing pension fund appeared to have been solved, and the difficulties of a small rump of pensioners, it seemed, 
were not going to get in the way.
   We had no forum,   according to one of those pensioners.    We were not within their terms of reference.   All that 
mattered, he pointed out, was that    the Aer Lingus extraordinary general meeting was saying that the pension 
issue has been resolved  .
For most people, even experienced Aer Lingus watchers, the focus now shifted to the next major date on the 
airline's calendar: May 2015, the date that shareholders had been told that the airline's chief executive of five years, 
Christoph Mueller, would be stepping down.
Will Aer Lingus deal take flight?
But anyone looking that far ahead was missing the obvious, glaring issue: Aer Lingus was now in play. With the 
resolution of the turmoil over the pension fund, Aer Lingus could now be adequately valued - and what can be 
valued can be bought.
A number of stockbroking firms across Dublin were already experiencing a quiet ripple of anticipation, and markets 
were beginning to move. This in itself was notable. Aer Lingus has two shareholders, the Irish state and Ryanair, 
who between them control a block of more than 50 per cent of the company, with a smattering of small but 
substantial holders such as Etihad and investment company Old Mutual. There aren't that many shares in play, so 
when they move substantially it means something's afoot.
Aer Lingus's share price had started December at about EUR 1.70 and only traded lightly. By the day of the deal, 
the price was up to EUR 1.85, with substantially greater volume of trades. As that week closed, it was clear that 
investors were interested in Aer Lingus again.
**Takeover target**
It wasn't just investors spotting the opportunity. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, the company behind British 
Airways, had seen it too. Walsh knows Aer Lingus intimately, having led the company as chief executive from 2001 
to 2005, a period of enormous turbulence for the airline. In that period, Walsh gained a reputation for ruthless 
efficiency, slashing 2,000 jobs and slimming the airline to a smaller, nimbler company to cope with the competition 
from low cost rivals like Dublin neighbour Ryanair. He frequently clashed with unions and he pushed for the 
government to float Aer Lingus on the stock exchange, which made him a controversial figure in the sedate world of 
government and semi-state industry. He remains a controversial figure: his brilliance in turning Aer Lingus into a 
functioning company was lauded in business circles, but he was later slammed in the Dáil by then taoiseach Bertie 
Ahern for wanting to    steal state assets and shaft members of staff   over the plans to buy the company.
Walsh left Aer Lingus in January 2005, soon after the failed bid to take the company private. On Sunday, December 
14, 2014, he quietly came back.
Walsh and IAG's offering Aer Lingus EUR 2.30 a share was not Aer Lingus's first rodeo. In 2006, 2007, and again in 
2013 rival airline Ryanair had made separate bids to take over Aer Lingus, each of which was rejected. But Aer 
Lingus found itself in a very different position on Sunday, December 14. Most significantly, the company was in a 
leadership transition, with chief executive Mueller already having announced his departure. With a protracted bid 
period looming, it fell to Colm Barrington to lead the company's response. Like Walsh, Barrington has decades of 
experience in the Irish airline industry, and he has steered Aer Lingus through a bid process before. For example, 
by the time of Ryanair's third bid, Barrington was chairman of Aer Lingus. As December closed, executive power at 
Aer Lingus flowed to Barrington. On the Monday, the board gave IAG their answer: no.
The cat, however, was out of the bag, and last Christmas saw a flurry of activity across the investment firms in 
Dublin, with various brokers and analysts meeting shareholders and investors, crunching numbers, making 
estimates, and calculating bid ranges - all trying to get a slice of the action should a second bid come in. Most firms 
broke only for Christmas day.
Then, on December 29, IAG came in again. The bid was 10 cent higher at EUR 2.40, but for a second time 
Barrington and his board rejected the offer. It was time for Joe Gill to enter the fray.
Few people know as much about the Irish aviation industry as Joe Gill, who works for Dublin stockbroking firm 
Goodbody as director of their corporate markets division. As well as being personally friendly with both Willie Walsh 
and Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary, he had worked as a consultant to Ryanair on its third bid for Aer 
Lingus - the very bid that Colm Barrington rejected as chairman. IAG was hiring Gill for his personal contacts and 
strategic sense of where IAG ought to be. His knowledge of the local, political, and shareholder scene could help 
IAG to take the temperature.
As January progressed, that temperature was rising. Fine Gael and Labour TDs had begun to express their concern 
about job losses, prompting fears of a backbench revolt, the Irish Airline Pilots' Association warned the takeover 
Will Aer Lingus deal take flight?
would    not be good for our members  ; and Minister for Transport Paschal Donohoe was forced to go on radio to 
complain that protests at his home by members of the IASS pension scheme were    unacceptable  .
**Political opposition**
But, in spite of the febrile atmosphere, circumstances in January would swing the momentum back towards IAG 
again.
First came quantitative easing. On Thursday, January 22, ECB president Mario Draghi announced that EUR 1 
trillion would be injected into European markets to kick-start the economy. By Friday, the euro had collapsed in 
value, and IAG could raise their bid in euro without too much cost in pounds. It meant that, on the day of the second 
bid, December 29, an offer to buy a share in Aer Lingus at EUR 2.40, would cost £1.88 in British pounds. A week 
later, after the value of the euro had slumped, even their increased bid of EUR 2.50 a share would have cost them 
just £1.87.
Second, the markets were once again sending a clear message to IAG. While there was plenty of activity in the 
market, a lot of it was in the form of people trying to sell and finding few buyers. As a consequence, the share price 
had stalled around EUR 2.40. Though analysts were predicting a bid that would touch the higher reaches of EUR 
2.60, perhaps even EUR 2.70, the canny operators of IAG could read market signals better than most.
By the Saturday morning after Draghi's historic announcement, news began leaking of a third bid, with a share offer 
of EUR 2.50 and a 5 cent bonus, which would be pulled from Aer Lingus's own cash reserves. This time, Barrington 
and the board recommended the deal.
**So where does it go from here?**
As this goes to print, IAG is running its eye over the Aer Lingus accounts, which could take up to three weeks, 
according to some sources.
When that process is complete, IAG will need to make a formal announcement detailing the bid, explaining in full 
why it's making a bid and what it's planning, and confirming that it's formally launching the bid.
That activates a ten-week period during which the shareholders can reject or accept the deal, while the competition 
authorities in London, Dublin and Brussels will be provided with extensive files to examine.
In that period, Willie Walsh's absence from the public debate will become more and more pronounced. While he is 
known to be keen to avoid getting into a political row - again - it places even greater pressure on the package of 
concessions that IAG will have to offer on top of the cash price for the company.
According to one source,    they're very conscious of everything going on in Cork, Dublin and Shannon, as well as 
all the issues around the Labour party and Fine Gael. All of that is being distilled and what's being planned are 
commitments to the Irish government  .
According to this person, all of that awareness will feed into that expected package of additional commitments. That 
will include some pretty explicit promises on mechanisms that guarantee the slots used to service Cork, Shannon 
and Dublin, assurances that there will be no job losses, commitments to maintain connections with North America 
through Dublin and Shannon, that the Aer Lingus team would be tasked primarily with developing in line with the 
Irish economy and that the Aer Lingus brand will be maintained within IAG.
And maybe a concession or two for those disgruntled pensioners, too.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
February 1, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 492 words
Body
**Revenue up at Greencore**
Irish food group Greencore recorded revenue of £331.9 million in the 13 weeks to December 26 - an increase of 4.4 
per cent on a like-for-like basis from the year before.
In its interim management statement, the company said the overall grocery market remained challenging, with 
negative same store volumes and price deflation.
   Against this backdrop, our key chilled markets performed well with continued good growth in the food-to-go 
market and a positive performance in the chilled ready meals market,   the statement said.
   The group remains well placed with strong positions in growing product categories. Notwithstanding the 
challenges of the UK grocery retail market, the business has had a good start to the year with encouraging growth 
against a strong comparator period last year,   the statement continued.
In the US, revenue was 19.5 per cent higher on a like-for-like basis, driven principally by the continued roll-out of 
new products with a key customer, Greencore said.
**Profits slide at CPL**
Recruitment group CPL Resources has reported a dip in its first-half pre-tax profit in its latest interim management 
statement.
Pre-tax profits fell by 13 per cent to EUR 6 million, with the company blaming the slide on its investment in 
expansion. A statement said it had made    significant investment in our people operations, infrastructure and 
facilities  .
Boardroom Briefing
Meanwhile revenue grew by 5 per cent to EUR 193.2 million. CPL said it was experiencing    gradual improvements 
in market conditions, although significant pricing challenges and economic headwinds are being experienced in a 
number of sectors and locations  .
**Major deal for IRES**
Canadian property investment group, Capreit, has acquired a 270-apartment portfolio in Sandyford, Dublin for EUR 
87.3 million on behalf of Irish Residential Properties Reit (IRES). The Rockbrook portfolio also includes a 2.8 acre 
development site, with planning permission for 467 apartments as well as commercial space and basement car 
parking.
**Treasury bill auction oversubscribed**
The National Treasury Management Agency has auctioned EUR 500 million of short-dated treasury bills. The 
agency
said the auction was covered 3.49 times, with total bids of EUR 1.745 billion. The bills, which have a maturity of six 
months, were sold at an annualised yield of zero per cent.
**The week ahead**
Tomorrow Ryanair will release its third-quarter results. In November it reported that its net profit for the first half of 
last year was up 32 per cent to EUR 795 million.
UDG Healthcare is due to publish its first quarter trading update on Tuesday. The healthcare services provider 
reported in November that its operating profit rose by 9 per cent to EUR 141 million in the year ended September 
30, and said it was    very positive   about its future growth.
Property investment company Hibernia Reit, which listed in Dublin in December 2013, will issue a trading statement 
on Wednesday.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
IAG promises Aer Lingus slot guarantees to government
IAG promises Aer Lingus slot guarantees to government
AirFinance Journal
February 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,AIRPORTS,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND,SPAIN,UK
Length: 294 words
Highlight: British Airways and Iberia parent firm will ensure 23 slot pairs at Heathrow for Irish carrier.
Body
Aer Lingus, the Irish flag carrier.
International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) hopes to win the support of the Irish governmentfor its takeover of 
Aer Lingusby offeringthe carrier slots at Heathrow Airport.
IAG has offered a legally-binding deal that guarantees Aer Lingus 23 slot pairs at Heathrow.
IAG made its first bid for the carrier in December 2014, but it wasrejected by the airline.Since then, IAG hasrevised 
its bidin its attempt to quell the ire of the local government, which owns 25.11% of the airline.
Low-cost carrier Ryanair owns a 29.82% stake of the Irish flag carrier, according to Aer Lingus's site. The remaining 
46.07% is owned by various parties.
In a statement released yesterday, IAG made several promises to Aer Lingus and the Irish Government.
These were:
·To guarantee that Aer Lingus's 23 slot pairs at London Heathrow are not sold, including to other IAG airlines.
·Aer Lingus's name, head office location or place of incorporation in the Republic of Ireland, will not be changed.
·For IAG to offer a further commitment to operate the slots on Irish routes for five years - protection that the Irish 
government does not have today.
Willie Walsh, IAG chief executive, said: "We are committed to maintaining and strengthening Aer Lingus. We want 
to develop air services that ensure Ireland's connectivity is enhanced. In seeking the support of the 
IrishGovernment, we propose to offer it legally binding commitments thatgowellbeyond the protections currently 
available to it. These commitments would give the Irish Government an important role that they do not have today in 
securing the future of Aer Lingus."
To see all ofAer Lingus's and IAG's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
IAG promises Aer Lingus slot guarantees to government
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: February 23, 2015
End of Document
Coalition caught between a rock and a hard place
Coalition caught between a rock and a hard place
Sunday Business Post
February 1, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 880 words
Body
Michael O'Leary was one thing. The government could easily swat away Ryanair's pugnacious attempts to acquire 
Aer Lingus, citing competition grievances and anti-trust concerns.
Willie Walsh, however, is a different proposition. His IAG group has carefully crafted a bid for the Irish carrier that it 
believes will both appease regulators and tickle institutional shareholders. Most aviation analysts I have spoken to 
in recent days believe that the IAG bid has both financial and strategic merit. For the government, the credibility of 
Walsh's proposition presents a peculiar problem.
On a corporate level, the deal makes sense. Politically, however, it is toxic. And we are at a stage in the electoral 
cycle where political imperative trumps capitalism and corporate logic.
Despite public pronouncements that it would sell its 25.1 per cent stake    at the right time and under the right 
conditions  , there is little government support to actually sell the stake at all. For many senior politicians and 
policymakers, selling the stake is simply more hassle than the EUR 350 million cash realisation is worth. With an 
election looming, selling the stake is too politically dangerous, even if IAG is giving commitments not to slash staff 
or curb routes to and from Ireland.
As such, the government is looking for reasons not to accept the bid. The financial markets know this as well: it is 
the reason that shares in Aer Lingus have not surged closer to IAG's EUR 2.55 offer price. If financial arbitrageurs 
believed there was money to be made in a successful IAG bid, they would be buying stock and the share price 
would be moving upwards. This has simply not happened. The markets believe the government decision to 
establish a quasi-task force is merely a delaying tactic.
The trick for the government (and its coterie of task forces and advisers) is to find the right reason not to sell. 
Certainly, they will not be able to argue price was the factor. By bidding EUR 2.55 a share, IAG is proposing to pay 
17 times 2015 projected earnings for Aer Lingus, a move that effectively overvalues the airline based on industry 
norms. The Irish government floated the carrier in 2006 at EUR 2.20 a share: it has traded above this price only 
Coalition caught between a rock and a hard place
three times since then, twice during Ryanair bids and now under IAG's advances. Indeed, the price is sweet enough 
to allow Ryanair, with its hefty 29 per cent holding in its rival, to walk away unbloodied. If Ryanair thought it could 
extract more cash for its stock, it would demand a higher bid. No, price is not a factor here.
Nor are competition concerns. Certainly, IAG will have to offer up concessions to smooth a potential takeover, such 
as sourcing another carrier to fly on routes where BA and Aer Lingus are the main competitors to each other such 
as some European and trans-Atlantic markets. But the concerns are limited, and easily resolved.
Instead, the government is centring its worries on connectivity, jobs and investment. The government fears - 
perhaps rightly - that IAG only wants Aer Lingus for its coveted slots at Heathrow, and will redeploy them from short 
haul flights between London and Ireland to more profitable long haul flights.
Willie Walsh jetted into Dublin last week to meet with government officials: both sides remain tight-lipped on his 
pitch. But it remains unclear if he can convince the political establishment to buy into his dream of having a 
standalone Aer Lingus within his grand IAG aviation conglomerate.
The problem for the government is that there is a lot at risk (jobs, routes and so on), but little to be gained. Yes, the 
government would get cash for its shareholding. But this is a simple mathematical exercise - the state already 
counts its holding in Aer Lingus on the state's balance sheet. Selling the shareholding would merely make the asset 
liquid. If it spent the money, it would further increase the deficit. This is not a case of the state landing a windfall: it is 
merely a case of whether it holds the Aer Lingus bounty in shares or cash.
Plus, IAG has sought to be the nice guy. It is clear that it will not take over Aer Lingus through a hostile takeover.
If IAG wanted to, it could mop up the 75 per cent of the airline owned by Ryanair and institutional shareholders, a 
move that would leave the government with a minority stake that would limit both state control and potential cash 
disbursements. As of now, this is not on the cards: the prize is outright ownership and the IAG bid will be contingent 
on the government being a willing seller.
But just what happens if the government decides not to sell? First, the pretence that it would sell if the offer was 
right would simply be blown out of the water. Second, the share price reaction would be extremely negative, with 
the value of the government's stake undoubtedly eroded.
Merrion Capital, in a briefing note, said that it would also leave shareholders of the airline    in an untenable 
situation   where yet another bid would have been spurned for political considerations. This, Merrion argues, would 
be in stark contrast to a multi-decade consolidation that has been occurring in the airline sector.
But this is not about market trends for the government at present. This is a battle between politics and economics. 
Politics will win.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Ex Post Facto
Ex Post Facto
Sunday Business Post
February 1, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 933 words
Body
**TV3 in the Liberties for the Teeling Show**
The name is still under wraps but TV3 is working on a fly-on-the-wall series about the first whiskey distillery to open 
in Dublin in over a century.
The reality show (Keeping Up With The Teelings?) tracks brothers Jack and Stephen Teeling through all the 
challenges of setting up their whiskey distillery from scratch in the Liberties, an area that once boasted more than 
30 distilleries and breweries.
   They were there from the start filming all the key milestones and personal pressures,   Jack Teeling tells me.    
You get used to it after a while!   They followed him to Italy to buy giant copper stills, to the US to do deals, and on 
site in Newmarket as the distillery and visitor centre go up, and even capture behind-the-scenes family dynamics. 
The brothers' whiskey and exploration entrepreneur legend dad John makes the odd cameo appearance.
There were no diva-like editorial control issues for the Teelings, he assures me sanguinely.    The crew pretty much 
had free rein,   says Jack.    Hopefully they capture what we're all about.  
The four-episode series is part of TV3's drive to produce more original home grown content to counter rival UTV 
Ireland's heavily British import-driven offerings.    We hope to have whiskey flying from the stills in early March, the 
distillery is nearly finished.  
There'll be an opening do in early summer when the visitors' centre is ready.    We've even taken our first booking 
for early May!   he says, brimming with optimism.
Jack worked at Cooley Distillery, founded by his dad, for several years, becoming managing director and staying on 
when it was sold to US giant Beam for EUR 70 million. Much of the ballpark EUR 3 million he made there has gone 
into this venture, with other members of the family, including John, also investing.
Ex Post Facto
......
**Company backed by aviation heir Declan Ryan launches new app**
Aviation heir Declan Ryan's venture capital firm has emerged as a backer of cashback firm Reep Rewards, I 
learned last week.
Ryan, the publicity shy son of Ryanair's Tony Ryan and a backer of discount airlines in Latin America and Asia has 
invested in Reep through Frontline Ventures, which along with British venture firm EC1 has put in a seven figure 
sum.
The company has a nifty app that allows you to make money from shopping. Each time you take a snap of a receipt 
after doing a shop or a snap of a particular in-store special offer, you get money back.
For brands and retailers this is solid gold intel on both retailer and consumer behaviour and there are 50,000 active 
monthly users.
**Coolmore gets into clothing**
Now you too can dress like a Horsey Henry type fresh off a multibillion euro stud farm. I see that Coolmore, the Irish 
and international stud farm, has made a foray into fashion with the Coolmore Collection. The range was launched to 
commemorate the success of Coolmore star Australia, its fourth consecutive Epsom Derby winner.
Billed as coming to you    exclusively from the home of the finest stallions in the world,   its quilted jackets will cost 
you EUR 130, while a gilet retails for EUR 112. Baseball hats are a more affordable EUR 20. It's a lot cheaper than 
hiring the stud services of that epic stallion: he costs EUR 50,000 a time.
**Irish Clinton ally on acquisition trail in Europe**
The well-connected Declan Kelly, brother of Irish cabinet minister Alan, is expanding his empire beyond its main 
hub in New York in a big way, I'm told.
His Teneo Holdings has multiple arms from public affairs and public relations to investor advice and sports star 
agency. Clients include Liberty Insurance, Coca-Cola and sports names like Graeme McDowell.
Teneo Intelligence is chaired by top former CIA man James Shinn and ex Nike figure Charlie Denson heads up 
Teneo Sport.
Bill Clinton sat on Teneo's board for a time and former US senator George Mitchell is a current director.
Now the business is expanding in Europe, with a new head of the international operations appointed to seek out 
acquisitions and conduct a hiring drive.
Former Nenagh Guardian journalist and Tipperary native, Kelly was economic envoy to Northern Ireland under the 
Clinton administration. That was the start of a close relationship with Bill and Hillary, and Kelly is an adviser to the 
Clinton foundation.
Kelly held a senior role at $2 billion communications giant FTI, a corporate strategy and business operating in 20 
countries. He may well have ambitions to emulate FTI's scale.
Teneo recently took on new investment from giant fund BC Partners to power expansion outside the US.
**Guinness maker makes suppliers wait 90 days**
Suppliers of Guinness producer Diageo will have to wait three months for payment from now on as the drinks giant 
has told them it will take 90 days to pay its bills instead of 60 on all future tenders from today, February 1, to 
improve cashflow.
Ex Post Facto
I asked Diageo Ireland why it was burdening small and medium businesses with its cashflow issues.
   Diageo values our suppliers and looks to have open and transparent relationships,   said a prepared statement.    
Current payment terms with suppliers remain unchanged.  
It also points out that it offers a supplier financing programme providing early payment - but doesn't add that this 
itself comes at an extra cost.
   It's a total disgrace to see this type of abuse of a dominant position,   said Mark Fielding of small firms body Isme 
when I asked how his members felt about it.
   This is the real world in which SMEs trade. Big business rules, government stands idly by, unable and unwilling to 
assist, despite all their rhetoric.  
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Update: Aer Lingus says it wants to join IAG
Update: Aer Lingus says it wants to join IAG
AirFinance Journal
February 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND,SPAIN,UK
Length: 311 words
Highlight: Board of Irish flag carrier warms to IAG's offer of â,¬2.55 a share.
Body
The board of Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus has said that it strongly favours IAG's proposed acquisition of the operator.
IAG's revised offer for the Irish airline was made on January 27 2015. It valued Aer Lingus at â,¬1.36 billion ($1.55 
billion), with each share at â,¬2.55 (US$2.90), comprising of a cash offer of â,¬2.50 and a dividend of â,¬0.05 per 
share.
A statement released by the Irish carrier on Friday said that the Irish operator's board believes that IAG's revised 
proposal is "in the best interests of Aer Lingus' shareholders".
On February 11, Aer Lingus met Ireland's minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport to discuss benefits of the 
proposed takeover. The Irish government has a 25.11% stake of airline.
IAG is the parent company of airlines British Airways, Vueling and Iberia. Low-cost carrier Ryanair owns a 29.82% 
stake of the Irish flag carrier, according to Aer Lingus's site. The remaining 46.07% is owned by various parties.
Since made an initial offer which was rejected in December 2014, IAG then revised the proposal several times 
promising carrier slots at Heathrow Airport to the Irish government.
Aer Lingus Chairman, Colm Barrington said: "The strong view of the Board of Aer Lingus is that the prospect of Aer 
Lingus being part of the IAG Group has a compelling commercial logic for Aer Lingus, has significantly positive 
benefits for Ireland and is strongly supportive of the Irish Government's two airline policy.
"Following a combination with IAG, Aer Lingus will have a markedly greater number of more attractive growth 
options that will significantly benefit the Company, its employees, its customers, the tourism sector, Irish business 
and industry and the airports at which Aer Lingus operates and Ireland."
To see all of Aer Lingus' recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com"[
Load-Date: March 9, 2015
Update: Aer Lingus says it wants to join IAG
End of Document
Inside Track
Inside Track
Sunday Business Post
February 1, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 459 words
Body
**A new side to Vincent Browne**
Not someone usually associated with good news, journalist and broadcaster Vincent Browne will be announcing 
new Irish job opportunities as the voice of a radio advertising campaign for Jobbio.com.
Jobbio.com, an online recruitment platform, will run its campaign on both national and regional stations on a daily 
basis for eight weeks.
Browne is foregoing all the fees for his work in return for a donation to the Concern Worldwide charity.
The campaign will see Browne announcing the new jobs available on the Jobbio platform from a variety of the 500 
companies that use it, including Ryanair, Unilever, Dropbox, Bank of Ireland, Mazars and Survey Monkey.
The main idea is to have Browne, who normally deals with bad news in his role as a journalist, talking about good 
news for a change. The campaign will also run across social media, with the hashtag #ReallyGoodNews being 
promoted by the company.
The chief executive of Jobbio, Stephen Quinn, who set up the company with his brother John, said:    We're 
delighted that Vincent has come on board to lend his very distinctive and well-recognised voice to our radio ad 
campaign.
   We think his no nonsense style provides a brilliant counterpoint to the more light hearted scripts we have 
developed, and serve as the perfect voice to get across our Really Good News campaign message.  
......
**The CIA's drink of choice**
Inside Track
Irish fans of Homeland, the American TV drama, might have spotted a familiar product in the show's season four 
finale.
In the episode, the main characters - and CIA staff - Carrie, Quinn, Saul and Lockhart enjoy a bottle of Tullamore 
Dew, the Irish whiskey.
Caspar MacRae, global brand director for William Grant and Sons, the parent company of Tullamore Dew, said that 
the appearance of the bottle in the episode was a    pleasant surprise   for the company.
He said that, as a rule, the company does not pay for product placement.
   We don't think product placement is authentic and, in most cases, the consumer can tell when the movie or TV 
show becomes a bit of an advert for the brand,   he said,
However, he said that Tullamore Dew does have a product placement agency, which works to make filmmakers 
aware of its products.
   The producers of Homeland actually loved the product and liked drinking it and so they wanted to put it in the 
show. That to us feels a lot more credible and a lot less forced than paying for product placement,   he said.
   Although we didn't pay any money for the whiskey to appear, I'm sure we sent the producer a bottle or two 
afterwards to say thanks very much.  
He said that William Grant and Sons has had success with other products getting organic placements. Its Monkey 
Shoulder whisky appeared on US drama series Trueblood.
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Avolon adopts new treasury system
Avolon adopts new treasury system
AirFinance Journal
February 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,CAPITAL,LESSORS,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 77 words
Byline: Dickon Harris
Highlight: Irish lessor picks automated treasury system to help manage debt facilities.
Body
Avolon, the international aircraft leasing company, has installed a Treasury Management System (TMS) from 
Salmon Software to manage its debt facilities.
The software is part of the Salmon Treasurer TMS aimed at corporate treasurers to manage debt, foreign 
exchange, money market, treasury, banking transactions and many other related corporate treasury activities.
Other aviation firms that use the software include Airbus, Awas and Ryanair.
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: March 16, 2015
End of Document
Qatar Airways buys nearly 10 percent of BA , Iberia parent
Qatar Airways buys nearly 10 percent of BA, Iberia parent
Associated Press Financial Wire
January 30, 2015 Friday 2:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 488 words
Byline: By ADAM SCHRECK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 
Body
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates (AP) - Qatar Airways said Friday it has bought nearly 10 percent of the parent 
company of British Airways and Spain's Iberia, deepening wealthy Qatar's business ties to Europe and intensifying 
competition with the airline's fast-growing Gulf rivals.
The Qatari government-backed airline said the decision to buy 9.99 percent of International Consolidated Airlines 
Group, also known as IAG, was part of an effort to enhance its operations and strengthen commercial ties with the 
European company.
Financial terms were not disclosed, but the stake is worth about 1.13 billion pounds ($1.7 billion) given IAG's market 
value.
"It makes sense for us to work more closely together in the near term and we look forward to forging a long-term 
relationship," Qatar Airways CEO Akbar al-Baker said in a statement.
Qatar Airways said it may consider increasing its stake further down the road.
Qatar Airways joined the OneWorld alliance in 2013, becoming the first of the big Gulf carriers to join an 
international airline alliance. British Airways was a founding member of the alliance, which also includes Iberia, 
American Airlines, Qantas, Cathay Pacific and several others.
IAG welcomed the move, noting its existing partnership with the Middle Eastern airline. IAG Chief Executive Willie 
Walsh said he was delighted to have Qatar Airways as a "long-term supportive shareholder."
"We will talk to them about what opportunities exist to work more closely together and further IAG's ambitions as the 
leading global airline group," he said.
Qatar Airways has expanded rapidly in recent years as it and its rivals in the nearby United Arab Emirates, Dubai-
based Emirates and Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways, increasingly drive long-haul travelers through their fast-
growing Gulf hubs.
Qatar Airways buys nearly 10 percent of BA , Iberia parent
It is backed by the government of Qatar, a small but wealthy oil and natural gas-rich nation jutting into the Persian 
Gulf that will host the 2022 World Cup. The country has extensive investments in Europe, including Harrods 
department store and other high-end London real estate, the Paris Saint-Germain football club and a stake in British 
bank Barclays.
Qatar Airways is following in the footsteps of Emirati rival Etihad, which has aggressively bought up stakes in 
foreign airlines, including Italy's Alitalia and Germany's second-biggest airline, Air Berlin.
Qatar's investment comes just days after Ireland's national airline, Aer Lingus, said it supports a takeover bid by 
IAG that values the Irish carrier at 1.36 billion euros ($1.52 billion). That acquisition still must be approved by Aer 
Lingus' two biggest shareholders: rival Irish carrier Ryanair and the Irish government.
Etihad also has built a stake in Aer Lingus in recent years and has a code-sharing agreement with the Irish carrier.
___
Associated Press writer Carlo Piovano contributed reporting from London.
___
Follow Adam Schreck on Twitter at www.twitter.com/adamschreck
Load-Date: January 31, 2015
End of Document
Flybe yet to hit a purple patch on new trajectory
Flybe yet to hit a purple patch on new trajectory
Financial Times (London, England)
January 30, 2015 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 681 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: Chief executive Saad Hammad seen as leading carrier in the right direction after slashing costs and 
changing routes
Body
Motivating employees with a ceremony involving beads and candles, all of them purple, may not sound like much of 
a strategy, but the chief executive of Flybe thinks it works.
In his quest to create a stronger company culture, Saad Hammad anoints a monthly Purple Hero and marks the 
honour with a flourish of purple paraphernalia.
This unusual ritual forms part of Flybe's wider effort to revive the regional airline, which has struggled to be 
profitable since it was floated in 2010.
The pace of that turnround was thrown into doubt this week after Flybe said annual results would be worse than 
expected. The carrier faces a daunting task in proving to investors it has a sustainably profitable niche in flying the 
less busy routes that are largely not serviced by the likes of Ryanair and easyJet.
Mr Hammad, who joined from private equity to take the top job more than a year ago , had been widely seen as 
leading Flybe in the right direction.
As part of a restructuring, he slashed costs and shed jobs, closed unprofitable bases and shook up its route 
network. A £150m equity raising conducted almost a year ago has boosted Flybe's balance sheet.
Flybe yet to hit a purple patch on new trajectory
That marks a stark change from the company's prospects when he arrived in 2013. "It was mayhem," Mr Hammad 
recalls. "A real dysfunctional business in terms of its processes and structure."
His experience as a former chief commercial officer at easyJet from 2005-2009, when the budget carrier had 
warned on profits, has helped him understand the need for deep-rooted change.
Management decisions were "seat of the pants" and route selection was done by "voodoo", while relationships 
between senior management were "fraught".
"You had three guys on the main board plus the CEO chairman, and it was like they were at war with each other," 
Mr Hammad says, without naming the board or former company head, Jim French. Almost all of the top team has 
since been changed.
The transformation Flybe went through was not dissimilar to the revival at easyJet - only instead of the 'orange 
spirit' there has been the 'purple magic'.
Flybe rebranded itself in purple under its new leadership, with purple crew uniforms and purple-wrapped chocolates 
for disembarking passengers. The airline, which has launched a loyalty scheme, admits it still needs to do more to 
catch the public consciousness.
While Mr Hammad insists he has not tried to "easyJetify" Flybe, there has been more than a touch of influence - a 
number of the management team are ex-easyJet - a tenth of new staff are from the budget carrier.
But a sizeable task lies in convincing investors decent profits lie ahead.
Holding back a move into the black has been the delay in moving its fleet of 14 leased Embraer E195 aircraft off its 
books, which cost it £26m a year. It has found homes for four of the jets, but a potential deal for the remaining nine 
fell through last year.
That matter has taken a long time to resolve, says Andrew Lobbenberg, airlines analyst at HSBC. "It looks like they 
did not develop back-up plans, which with the benefit of hindsight was a mistake."
Competition has been the other stumbling block. Flybe moved into London City airport in the autumn, angling at 
business passengers. But British Airways proved more aggressive than bargained for, and the low oil price 
unexpectedly boosted another rival, CityJet.
Flybe has also been unlucky on its hedging policy - it will not reap any benefit from the halving of the price since last 
summer until 2016-2017 - assuming it stays low.
Flybe's performance over the busier summer months will need to be reviewed to show whether it can make London 
City work.
A stable core business will be necessary to support Flybe's planned growth in the "white label" part of its business, 
whereby larger airlines outsource some domestic flights to Flybe so they can focus on their long-haul routes, as well 
as more flying within continental Europe.
Mr Hammad, who is just 12 months into his three-year restructuring plan, is still keeping a close eye on costs until it 
sustains profits. It could be some time before the carrier hits a purple patch.
Load-Date: January 29, 2015
End of Document
A Lingus shares dips on deal opposition A Lingus
A Lingus shares dips on deal opposition; A Lingus
Business World (Digest)
January 29, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 412 words
Highlight: Opposition to a takeover of Aer Lingus by the owner of British Airways is building within Irish government 
parties, pushing shares in the airline lower for the second successive day.
Body
Opposition to a takeover of Aer Lingus by the owner of British Airways is building within Irish government parties, 
pushing shares in the airline lower for the second successive day.
Aer Lingus's board this week recommended an improved 1.36-billion-euro offer from International Consolidated 
Airlines Group (IAG), subject to the agreement of its two largest shareholders -- budget airline Ryanair and the Irish 
state.
Opposition parties and Aer Lingus's trade unions want the government to retain its 25 percent stake, a call 
members of the Fine Gael/Labour coalition government said was echoed by some at parliamentary party meetings 
on Wednesday.
"It was fairly strongly the feeling at the meeting that Aer Lingus is important to the economic well-being of the 
country and that we shouldn't lightly dispose of some influence," Joe Costello, a Labour Party TD in a Dublin 
constituency where Aer Lingus is a major employer, told Reuters today. Costello said Labour, traditionally with a 
strong union support base, would listen to how IAG could address concerns over jobs and regional routes, but that 
of the roughly half of the party members who spoke at the meeting, none were in favour. He added the timing of the 
proposal, just over a year ahead of elections, was not ideal for the government parties. The chairman of the 
parliament's transport committee, John O'Mahony of the senior government partner Fine Gael, said there were also 
concerns within the centre-right party. Enterprise minister Richard Bruton told RTE these were understandable but 
the government -- which met IAG for the first time on Wednesday -- could not draw any conclusions without seeing 
what was at stake. IAG said on Tuesday it would operate Aer Lingus as a separate business with its own brand and 
recognised the importance of direct air services and connectivity for Ireland. It has given no further details. Shares 
in Aer Lingus were 2.3 percent lower at 2.31 euros at 1145 GMT, back to where they were a week ago before IAG 
made its fresh 2.55 euro a share bid on Monday. Traders blamed fears over government opposition for the second 
A Lingus shares dips on deal opposition A Lingus
successive day of falls. IAG shares were 0.2 percent lower at 559 pence. "If the government were to elect not to sell 
its stake in Aer Lingus which resulted in IAG removing itself from the bid process, the share price reaction would be 
extremely negative," David Holohan of Merrion Stockbrokers wrote in a note. (Reuters) For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 3, 2015
End of Document
Rights in databases: IP rights 0: Contracts 1
Rights in databases: IP rights 0: Contracts 1
Newstex Blogs
Laurence Kaye on Digital Media Law
January 29, 2015 Thursday 9:58 AM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 723 words
Byline: LaurenceKaye
Body
Jan 29, 2015( Laurence Kaye on Digital Media Law: http://laurencekaye.typepad.com/laurence_kayes_blog/ 
Delivered by Newstex)  Dear reader Apologies for the rather cryptic title of this post which concerns this month's 
decision[1] of the European Court of Justice in Ryanair Ltd vs PR Aviation BV. This goes back to 2010 and 
Ryanair's complaint to a Dutch Court about PR Aviation 'scrapping' the Ryanair database. PR Aviation operate a 
price comparison and booking site for flights, for which purpose it scraped data from the Ryanair website. The case 
illustrates that in an age of 'machine to machine' communications, contracts and licences may trump intellectual 
property rights. Ryanair argued before the Dutch Court that (1) PR Aviation's webscraping infringed its copyright 
and/or database right (also known as the) derived from the Directive for the Legal Protection of Databases[2] and 
(2) that PR Aviation also breached the terms of Ryanair's website which state that "the use of automated systems 
or software to extract data from this website or            www.bookryanair.com[3] for commercial purposes ('screen 
scraping') is prohibited unless the third party has directly concluded a written licence agreement with Ryanair...."
 In fact, Ryanair lost on (1) before the Dutch Courts which decided that the scrapped data did not benefit from 
copyright protection under the Database Directive, nor did it meet the 'substantial investment' test under that 
Directive to qualify for the database right protection. The single issue decided by the CJEU was whether the 
freedom to use such a database can be controlled by contract or whether freedom to contract is overriden by the 
Direcctive. The Database Directive gives the 'lawful user' of a database the right to use substantial parts of a 
database without requiring the consent of the owner for specified purposes, and thus without infringing either the 
copyright or database right. For example, the 'lawful user' can extract or re-utilise the database's contents without 
requiring consent i.e do the things.... " which is necessary for the purposes of access to the contents of the 
databases and normal use of the database"."  The Directive goes on to state that any contractual provision which 
overrides these 'carve outs' to copyright and database right are null and void. The point decided by the CJEU was 
this: as the Ryanair dataset scraped by PR Aviation's search engine was not protected by copyright or database 
right - because it did not meet the thresshold for legal protection - the provisions in the Database Directive which 
rendered null and void contractual limitations on the 'lawful user's' right to use the database did not apply. So the 
result is that freedom to contract wins on issue (2) - The restriction in Ryanair's website terms against web scraping 
were not overriden nor rendered null and void by the Database Directive. This decision may be significant as we 
move increasingly to the use of 'machine readable' permissions (aka licence terms) which attach the use of content 
and effectively 'travel with' that content, thereby communicating the ways in which that content may be lawfully 
Rights in databases: IP rights 0: Contracts 1
used. That's actually good news because in a world of digital distribution, it's in everyone's interests to use 
technology to make it easy to find, clear and use content.  In my view, this doesn't mean that rights owners will or 
can use contracts to 'lock up' content - bear in mind this decision relates only to data in a database and not to to 
copyright content sitting in databases, Rights owners don't want to 'lock up' content. Rather, they make it available 
across a multitude of platforms but on terms that where it is protected by copyright, there is an infrastructure in 
place which delivers that content to consumers and assures rights holders, from creators onwards, that they get 
remunerated where they of a fair return on their creative and economic investment. There's a good analysis of the 
Ryanair 
case 
on 
the 
IPKat 
Blog 
here[4]. 
Have 
a 
good 
week. 
Laurie 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.bailii.org/eu/cases/EUECJ/2015/C3014.html 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31996L0009:EN:HTML 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.bookryanair.com [ 4]:            http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/breaking-cjeu-says-that-owner-of-
online.html 
Load-Date: January 29, 2015
End of Document
Dublin plans to meet IAG over EUR1.35bn offer for Aer Lingus Travel & leisure
Dublin plans to meet IAG over EUR1.35bn offer for Aer Lingus; Travel & 
leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
January 28, 2015 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 435 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger in London Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
The Irish government is planning to "engage" with International Airlines Group in the coming days over its 
EUR1.35bn cash bid for Aer Lingus.
Paschal Donohoe, transport minister, said that the government was ready to meet the parent of British Airways and 
Spain's Iberia after Ireland's national carrier indicated it would recommend the bid , subject to conditions.
The primary issue was that Aer Lingus would have to be "satisfied with the manner in which IAG proposes to 
address the interests of relevant parties" - in other words the government, which holds a 25.1 per cent stake.
IAG's offer is conditional on acceptance by Dublin and by Ryanair, which holds 29.9 per cent of Aer Lingus.
Mr Donohoe reiterated that price would not be the only factor. "There are important considerations to be taken into 
account," he said, including "competition, connectivity and jobs".
The coalition in Dublin is taking a cautious approach to the bid as the political heat rises over IAG's offer. Calls to 
reject a takeover have grown in recent days from unions and opposition politicians.
Dublin plans to meet IAG over EUR1.35bn offer for Aer Lingus Travel & leisure
Criticism has been particularly fierce in the constituencies around Shannon and Cork airports, where Aer Lingus 
provides connections into London's Heathrow that are considered vital to the region's economic prosperity. The 
government is aware of the potential for such opposition to snowball in the run-up to next year's general election.
People close to the situation said that the recommendation from Aer Lingus's board would allow IAG to address 
these and other concerns publicly. IAG was aware that its concessions would have to be more specific than 
indicated in yesterday's statement, one person said.
Although IAG stopped short of giving firm or detailed guarantees on sensitive areas such as the number of flights 
into and out of Heathrow, it did say that its intention was to operate Aer Lingus "as a separate business with its own 
brand, management and operations, continuing to provide connectivity to Ireland".
It also said that it would include the Irish carrier in its transatlantic joint venture with American Airlines, "leveraging 
the natural traffic flows between Ireland and the US and the advantageous geographical position of Dublin for 
serving connecting flows".
IAG said it recognised the importance of direct air services and air route connectivity for investment and tourism. 
People close to the situation said IAG was likely to give Dublin comfort that the carrier's 23 slots at Heathrow would 
continue to serve the Irish market. All Aer Lingus routes from Cork, Shannon, Belfast and Dublin to London are 
profitable.
Load-Date: January 27, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus backs takeover, needs Irish government support
Aer Lingus backs takeover, needs Irish government support
Associated Press Financial Wire
January 27, 2015 Tuesday 10:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 396 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Aer Lingus said Tuesday it supports a takeover bid by British Airways parent IAG, putting the Irish 
national airline with its trademark shamrock tailfins on course for foreign acquisition nine years after its privatization.
The 11-member Aer Lingus board said it could recommend IAG's latest bid of 2.55 euros ($2.85) per share, valuing 
the airline at 1.36 billion euros ($1.52 billion). It emphasized that the proposal required backing from the two biggest 
shareholders: rival Irish carrier Ryanair and the Irish government.
Ryanair, which acquired a 29.8 percent shareholding as part of three failed hostile takeover bids, declined to 
comment.
The government, which retained a 25.1 percent share when it privatized Aer Lingus in 2006, opposed Ryanair's 
ambitions and has emphasized its concern that a private owner could weaken travel connections for Ireland, an 
island nation.
Aer Lingus is the fourth-largest owner of landing slots at Heathrow, Europe's most strategic and crowded hub 
airport. Those slots alone are valued at 400 million euros ($450 million) and could be used by new owners for more 
lucrative long-haul routes.
Transport Minister Paschal Donohoe has briefed fellow government ministers about the takeover offer.
The Aer Lingus board said IAG executives had offered assurances that Aer Lingus would remain "a separate 
business with its own brand, management and operations, continuing to provide connectivity to Ireland."
Later, Madrid-registered IAG said it intended to talk directly with Irish government leaders to explain that their 
takeover plan "would secure and strengthen Aer Lingus' brand and long-term future."
IAG said Ireland was geographically well positioned to handle more U.S.-European long-haul traffic. It said Aer 
Lingus would benefit from increased cooperation with IAG's main U.S. partner, American Airlines, which directly 
competes with Aer Lingus on Chicago and New York routes.
Aer Lingus backs takeover, needs Irish government support
IAG was created in 2009 by the merger of British Airways and Spanish airline Iberia. Its Irish chief executive, Willie 
Walsh, led Aer Lingus from 2001 to 2005.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary has not ruled out making another bid for Aer Lingus, arguing the airline's 
future would be better secured by another Irish company. Ryanair is appealing a British competition ruling that it 
must divest itself of all but 5 percent of Aer Lingus shares.
Load-Date: January 28, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus board recommend AIG offer Aviation
Aer Lingus board recommend AIG offer; Aviation
Business World (Digest)
January 27, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 408 words
Highlight: The board of Irish airline Aer Lingus has recommended an improved 1.36-billion-euro takeover offer 
from the owner of British Airways which now must sooth government concerns to win shareholder approval.
Body
The board of Irish airline Aer Lingus has recommended an improved 1.36-billion-euro takeover offer from the owner 
of British Airways which now must sooth government concerns to win shareholder approval.
The new proposal from International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG), its third in six weeks, is worth 2.55 euros 
per share, up from 2.40 euros, and includes a cash offer of 2.50 euros per share and a dividend of 0.05 euros.
Aer Lingus said its recommendation is subject to being satisfied with how IAG proposes to address the interests of 
relevant parties including its top shareholders, budget airline Ryanair and the Irish government, which is facing 
mounting political pressure not to sell.
IAG said it intends to operate Aer Lingus as a separate business with its own brand, management and operations. 
"IAG recognises the importance of direct air services and air route connectivity for investment and tourism in Ireland 
and intends to engage with the Irish Government in order to secure its support for the transaction," IAG said in a 
statement. A successful takeover would give IAG more take-off and landing slots at London Heathrow Airport, BA's 
home base and a major European hub for international flights. It said Aer Lingus would join the joint business that 
IAG operates over the North Atlantic with American Airlines, leveraging traffic flows between Ireland and the United 
States. Ryanair, which still holds 29.8 percent after its takeover attempts were blocked and currently faces a 
regulatory order to cut its stake to 5 percent, said last week it would give due consideration to any offer. The 
government had sought to sell its stake as part of the country's 2010 bailout by the European Union and 
International Monetary Fund but postponed the plan. It has been urged by the two main opposition parties to rule 
out any sale, raising the stakes just over a year before elections are scheduled. Transport Minister Paschal 
Donohoe, who will brief cabinet on the proposal on Tuesday, has said the decision to be made will involve more 
than just looking at the price. Donohoe said the government would examine how a merger would affect Aer Lingus 
workers, its brand and both connectivity and competition for air routes out of the island nation. Aer Lingus's main 
Aer Lingus board recommend AIG offer Aviation
trade union IMPACT has said that a takeover could lead to the loss of up to 1,200 jobs, a quarter of the carrier's 
workforce. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 29, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus Board Recommends New $1.5B Takeover Offer From IAG
Aer Lingus Board Recommends New $1.5B Takeover Offer From IAG
International Business Times News
January 27, 2015 Tuesday 12:53 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 479 words
Byline: Sneha Shankar
Body
Jan 27, 2015( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex) <nl/> Irish carrier 
Aer Lingus' board said Tuesday that it was 'willing to recommend' a takeover offer worth 1.36 billion euros ($1.52 
billion) from International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG), the parent of British Airways and Iberia. The latest 
offer is the third one from IAG in six weeks.<nl/>
 The latest offer is worth 2.55 euros a share, and includes a cash offer of 2.50 euros a share and a dividend of 0.05 
euros. The new offer would also have to be approved by Ryanair and the Irish government. Ryanair has a 29.8 
percent stake in the Irish carrier while the government owns 25.1 percent, BBC reported[1], adding that IAG's main 
interest in Aer Lingus is the 23 pairs of take-off and landing slots at Heathrow airport valued at 40 million euros 
each. The move would help IAG operate more flights out of one of the busiest airports in the world.<nl/> "IAG 
recognises the importance of direct air services and air route connectivity for investment and tourism in Ireland and 
intends to engage with the Irish Government in order to secure its support for the transaction," IAG said, in a 
statement, according to Reuters.<nl/> According to assurances given by IAG's leaders, Aer Lingus "would operate 
as a separate business with its own brand, management and operations, continuing to provide connectivity to 
Ireland," The Associated Press reported[2]. Meanwhile, Ryanair said, according[3] to the New York Times, that it 
would be willing to consider an offer for Aer Lingus between 2.50 to 2.70 euros a share.<nl/> IAG, which is one of 
the world's largest airline groups, owns British Airways and two Spanish carriers -- Iberia and Vueling Airlines. The 
company carried over 77.3 million passengers in 2014 and earned a revenue of 15.2 billion euros in the first nine 
months of last year, showing an increase of 7.4 percent as compared to the same period in 2013.<nl/> Transport 
Minister Paschal Donohoe, who is scheduled to brief the cabinet on the proposal on Tuesday, said that the decision 
to approve the acquisition would consider factors other than price, such as analyzing the effect of the merger on Aer 
Lingus workers and its brand. It would also evaluate the competition on the route and the connectivity to Ireland, 
Reuters reported[4]. Aer Lingus' main trade union, however, said that a takeover may lead to 1,200 people losing 
their 
jobs.<nl/> 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.bbc.com/news/business-30978683 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://bigstory.ap.org/article/f7973e423a624f509fcb2fba754ec7dd/aer-lingus-backs-takeover-needs-irish-
government-support [ 3]:            http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2015/01/27/aer-lingus-receptive-to-latest-offer-from-
british-airways-parent/ [ 4]:            http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/01/27/us-aer-lingus-group-m-a-iag-
idINKBN0KZ0KO20150127 
Load-Date: January 27, 2015
Aer Lingus Board Recommends New $1.5B Takeover Offer From IAG
End of Document
Opposition grows to latest IAG bid Irish politicians call on Dublin to reject new move for country's flag-carrier 
Aer Lingus
Opposition grows to latest IAG bid; Irish politicians call on Dublin to reject 
new move for country's flag-carrier Aer Lingus
Financial Times (London, England)
January 27, 2015 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 15
Length: 419 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin, Peggy Hollinger and Joel Lewin in London
Body
Willie Walsh , chief executive of International Airlines Group, faces mounting public opposition to his proposed take-
over of Aer Lingus even as the Irish flag carrier yesterday opened the door to talks over a sweetened offer.
Aer Lingus said it was considering an offer from the parent company of British Airways that values the Irish group's 
equity at about EUR1.35bn. The offer comprises of EUR2.50 in cash and a dividend of EUR0.05 per share. "The 
board is considering the revised proposal," said Aer Lingus. The carrier has rejected two approaches from IAG as 
significantly undervaluing the group, which has returned to profit in the past five years under the leadership of out-
going chief executive Christoph Mueller .
IAG's latest offer is conditional on due diligence, the recommendation of the Aer Lingus board and the acceptance 
of the offer by Ryanair and the Irish government, the two biggest shareholders in Aer Lingus, with 29.9 per cent and 
25.1 per cent, respectively.
But the Irish government is acutely aware that public criticism of the bid is intensifying, against the background of a 
looming general election.
Opposition politicians have called on the coalition to reject the bid as a means of protecting jobs and Ireland's 
connections to London's Heathrow airport and beyond.
Opposition grows to latest IAG bid Irish politicians call on Dublin to reject new move for country's flag-carrier 
Aer Lingus
Dublin has said it would consider any offer for Aer Lingus, but also outlined its concerns about the fate of the 
airline's take-off and landing rights at Heathrow, where it is the fourth-largest operator.
Criticism is fierce near Shannon and Cork airports, where Aer Lingus provides links to Heathrow that are 
considered vital to the areas' prosperity.
Impact, the union that represents cabin crew, pilots and some ground staff at Aer Lingus warns of job losses and 
wants Dublin to keep a stake in the airline. The government could defer a decision until the European Commission 
rules on whether a combined entity would have to dispose of certain landing and take-off slots, notably at Heathrow.
People close to the talks in Ireland said a combination could bring significant benefits for Aer Lingus on its 
transatlantic routes, by transferring some of BA's UK regional passengers through the Dublin and Shannon hubs 
instead of Heathrow. IAG confirmed it had submitted an improved offer.
The EUR2.55 a share offer is a premium of 47 per cent on Aer Lingus's undisturbed stock price of EUR1.77 on 
December 16, before news of IAG's approach broke.
Additional reporting by Jane Wild
Lex page 14 Finnair risks page 18 Lombard page 20
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
End of Document
Playing the slots
Playing the slots
Financial Times (London, England)
January 27, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 353 words
Body
Keep dropping coins in a slot machine and eventually you will win something. Whether the winnings cover your 
outlay is another matter.
International Airlines Group, owner of British Airways and Iberia, has also gone for slots, at Heathrow, by pursuing 
Aer Lingus since December. The odds, however, are in its favour. After two rejections, IAG revised its offer over the 
weekend to EUR2.55 a share in cash and dividends, from EUR2.30 originally, half again as much as the 
undisturbed share price of EUR1.47. Aer Lingus's shares hardly moved yesterday, reflecting doubts over whether 
the Irish government, a 25 per cent stakeholder, will consent.
But IAG is determined and other shareholders will have a say, too.
For IAG, buying Aer Lingus remains sensible at the higher price, which comes to 17 times estimated 2015 earnings 
(IAG's own multiple is 12). Slots at Heathrow do not come up often and pricing them accurately is tricky.
But IAG would gain the flexibility to use the 23 take-off and landing slots for routes other than London-Dublin (such 
a shift would be unpopular with the Irish government, so it would have to be done carefully and gradually).
IAG would also get a business rapidly expanding its north Atlantic operations, adding capacity of 25 per cent on this 
key route this year.
Playing the slots
Further, as the oil price falls, IAG's spending capacity grows. IAG has stronger pricing power, such that 58 per cent 
of its fuel savings should pass through to operating profits this year, Credit Suisse estimates. Compare that with 
Lufthansa's 8 per cent.
Aer Lingus's shares have now exceeded their 2006 IPO price of EUR2.20. So while the politics of selling to a UK 
company are tricky, the Irish government has a fair offer, and a modest gain, in front of it - and may get a fairer offer 
still before very long. Other holders will be keen to sell. Ryanair, with 30 per cent of the shares, needs to sell down 
to 5 per cent, as decreed by the UK competition authorities.
Aer Lingus has a fiduciary duty to all holders, and the Irish government one to its public, to agree terms.
The situation is fluid, but gamble on an agreement.
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
End of Document
Govt to talk to IAG "in coming days" IAG Talks
Govt to talk to IAG "in coming days"; IAG Talks
Business World (Digest)
January 27, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 137 words
Highlight: Transport Minister Paschal Donohoe said today the government would engage with British Airways 
owner IAG in the coming days on the terms of its proposed new offer for Aer Lingus.
Body
Transport Minister Paschal Donohoe said today the government would engage with British Airways owner IAG in 
the coming days on the terms of its proposed new offer for Aer Lingus.
"There are important considerations to be taken into account in addition to price, competition, connectivity and jobs 
among those criteria," he said in a statement. "We will engage with IAG on these issues in the coming days."
Aer Lingus's AERL.I board has recommended an improved 1.36 billion-euro takeover offer from International 
Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) ICAG.L, the Irish airline said earlier today.
Aer Lingus said its recommendation is subject to being satisfied with how IAG proposes to address the interests of 
the relevant parties, its two largest shareholders, Ryanair and the Irish government. For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 30, 2015
End of Document
irrevocable commitments from Aer Lingus mulls IAG bid as offer rises to (EURO)1.36bn
irrevocable commitments from Aer Lingus mulls IAG bid as offer rises to 
(EURO)1.36bn
City A.M.
January 27, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 187 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON
Body
SHARES climbed 2.42 per cent at International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) yesterday, after the company 
confirmed that it had submitted a third offer for Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus.
IAG, which owns British Airways, is proposing a bid of (EURO)2.55 per share, which values Aer Lingus at around 
(EURO)1.36bn (£1.02bn).
The Irish firm stated that its board was considering the bid, which is the third that IAG has made over the past few 
months. Aer Lingus also said the proposal remains conditional on, among other things, the receipt of irrevocable 
commitments from Ryanair and the Irish minister for finance to accept the offer.
Rival carrier Ryanair owns a 29.82 per cent stake in the company, while the Irish government owns a 25.11 per 
cent stake. The government is facing mounting political pressure not to sell.
Robin Byde, analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said he expected Ryanair to accept the latest offer, but that the 
government's stake might become more of a problem.
He stated: "We are concerned about the politics of this deal and the potential for IAG to get dragged into prolonged 
and distracting negotiations."
Graphic
irrevocable commitments from Aer Lingus mulls IAG bid as offer rises to (EURO)1.36bn
 
IAG's chief exec Willie Walsh previously led Aer Lingus
Load-Date: January 27, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus confirms IAG takeover bid at 2.55 euros per share
Aer Lingus confirms IAG takeover bid at 2.55 euros per share
Associated Press Financial Wire
January 26, 2015 Monday 11:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 422 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Aer Lingus announced Monday that British Airways parent IAG has made an improved takeover 
offer of 2.55 euros ($2.85) per share, and the board of the Irish airline says it is considering the proposal.
The offer - the third by IAG in the past month - values Aer Lingus at more than 1.3 billion euros ($1.45 billion). 
Unlike previous offers, the Aer Lingus board did not reject this offer outright.
Instead, Aer Lingus said acceptance of IAG's all-cash offer would require "irrevocable commitments" from the two 
biggest shareholders: rival budget carrier Ryanair and the Irish government. Ryanair has a nearly 30-percent stake, 
the government 25 percent.
Monday's published offer is higher than the figure of 2.50 euros per share that airline officials circulated to British 
and Irish media over the weekend. It includes payment of an extra 5 cent dividend per share.
IAG, which was formed in 2009 by a merger between British Airways and Spanish carrier Iberia, is led by Willie 
Walsh, the Irishman who was chief executive of Aer Lingus from 2001 to 2005. It long has been considered a 
logical suitor for Aer Lingus following the failure of three hostile takeover bids by Dublin competitor Ryanair.
Walsh opened IAG's bidding last month with a 2.30 euros-per-share offer, and raised it to 2.40 euros. The move 
coincided with the imminent departure of Aer Lingus chief executive Christoph Mueller, who is taking the same 
position at troubled Malaysia Airlines.
Aer Lingus is most prized for its ownership of 24 landing slots at Heathrow Airport near London, British Airways' 
primary base. Those are valued at 400 million euros ($450 million) alone.
Aer Lingus also has a profitable, growing trans-Atlantic network to the United States operating from two Irish 
airports that, uniquely in Europe, allow U.S.-bound passengers to clear American immigration and customs checks 
on Irish soil. Industry analysts believe IAG could funnel hundreds of thousands of European travelers annually to 
the United States through Irish airports rather than overcrowded Heathrow.
Aer Lingus confirms IAG takeover bid at 2.55 euros per share
The government is pulling Ireland out of six years of austerity, and the offer would deliver an estimated 335 million 
euros to reduce debt. But surrendering the remaining state hold on Aer Lingus - an emotional totem of Irish 
independence, with its emerald green fuselages and shamrock-bedecked tailfins - risks bringing the government 
into conflict with nationalist opposition leaders and labor unions, which fear cuts to Aer Lingus' 3,900-strong 
unionized work force.
Load-Date: January 27, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus considering bid from IAG; Airlines
Aer Lingus considering bid from IAG; Airlines
Business World (Digest)
January 26, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 400 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus is considering an improved 1.36 billion euro takeover proposal from International 
Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG), the third attempt by the owner of British Airways to buy its Irish rival.
Body
Aer Lingus is considering an improved 1.36 billion euro takeover proposal from International Consolidated Airlines 
Group (IAG), the third attempt by the owner of British Airways to buy its Irish rival.
Aer Lingus said on Monday the new proposal was worth 2.55 euros per share, up from a previous 2.40 euros.
The proposal includes a cash offer of 2.50 per euros share and a cash dividend of 0.05 euros per share.
It is also conditional on the recommendation of Aer Lingus's the board and irrevocable commitments from the Irish 
carrier's two largest shareholders -- budget airline Ryanair and the Irish government. IAG, which also owns Spanish 
carrier Iberia, has had two takeover proposals rejected by Aer Lingus. Buying the Irish airline would give IAG more 
take-off and landing slots at London Heathrow airport, British Airways' home base and a major European hub for 
international flights. But a deal would need the backing of Ryanair, which holds a 29.9 percent stake in Aer Lingus 
after its own failed takeover attempts, and the Irish government, which owns 25 percent. Ryanair, currently 
appealing an order by Britain's competition watchdog to cut its stake in Aer Lingus to 5 percent having had three 
bids for its rival rebuffed in recent years, has said it has no particular concerns about an IAG takeover. Ireland's 
transport minister reiterated on Sunday the government would take huge care in evaluating any offer for the 79-
year-old former flag carrier, and examine how a merger would affect Aer Lingus workers, its brand and both 
connectivity and competition for air routes out of Ireland. Minister Paschal Donohoe said the state body responsible 
for advising the government on the sale of state assets would prepare a report on the value of its stake and the 
wider implications if a bid was recommended by Aer Lingus' board. Dublin included the sale of its stake in a 
privatisation plan agreed as part of a 2010 EU/IMF bailout before postponing the plan 18 months ago. Ireland's two 
main opposition parties called on the government to rule out any sale, raising the political stake just over a year out 
from elections. Aer Lingus' main trade union IMPACT has written to the minister to outline "significant risks" to jobs 
Aer Lingus considering bid from IAG; Airlines
and concerns over accessibility to Ireland for business and tourism. Shares in Aer Lingus closed on Friday at 2.35 
euros. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 28, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus Set To Recommend IAG Takeover Offer : Reports
Aer Lingus Set To Recommend IAG Takeover Offer : Reports
RTT News (United States)
January 26, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 232 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL.L) board is set to recommend its shareholders to accept a 
revised proposal from International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A. (IAG.L, BAIRY.PK, BAY.L), according to 
media reports.
Earlier today, Aer Lingus Group confirmed that it received a revised proposal from International Consolidated 
Airlines Group, and that its board is considering the new offer.
The revised offer values each Aer Lingus share at 2.55 euros, comprising an all cash offer for the company of 2.50 
euros per share and a cash dividend of 0.05 euro per share.
Dublin-based Aer Lingus received a preliminary, highly conditional and non-binding 2.30 euros per share offer from 
IAG on December 14, 2014. The airline rejected the offer on December 18, saying it fundamentally undervalued Aer 
Lingus and its attractive prospects.
IAG approached Aer Lingus again during the month, which was also rejected by the Irish airline. That sweetened 
proposal consisted of a cash offer of 2.40 euros per Aer Lingus share, subject to certain pre-conditions.
A bid to buy Aer Lingus needs the approval of the Irish government, which has about 25 percent stake in the airline, 
and also of Ryanair, which has a near 30 percent stake and had made unsuccessful offers to acquire Aer Lingus.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: January 27, 2015
End of Document
IAG Yet Again Sweetens Bid For Aer Lingus
IAG Yet Again Sweetens Bid For Aer Lingus
RTT News (United States)
January 26, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 308 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL.L) Monday confirmed that it has received a revised proposal 
from International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A. (IAG.L, BAIRY.PK, BAY.L), and that its board is considering the 
new offer.
The revised offer values each Aer Lingus share at 2.55 euros, comprising an all cash offer for the company of 2.50 
euros per share and a cash dividend of 0.05 euro per share.
Dublin-based Aer Lingus received a preliminary, highly conditional and non-binding 2.30 euros per share offer from 
IAG on December 14, 2014. The airline rejected the offer on December 18, saying it fundamentally undervalued Aer 
Lingus and its attractive prospects.
IAG approached Aer Lingus again during the month, which was also rejected by the Irish airline. That sweetened 
proposal consisted of a cash offer of 2.40 euros per Aer Lingus share, subject to certain pre-conditions.
A bid to buy Aer Lingus needs the approval of the Irish government, which has about 25 percent stake in the airline, 
and also of Ryanair, which has a near 30 percent stake and had made unsuccessful offers to acquire Aer Lingus.
"The Revised Proposal remains conditional on, amongst other things, confirmatory due diligence, the 
recommendation of the Board of Aer Lingus and the receipt of irrevocable commitments from Ryanair Limited and 
the Minister for Finance of Ireland to accept the offer," Aer Lingus added today. Meanwhile, IAG said in a separate 
release today that it has submitted an improved proposal to make an offer for Aer Lingus. There can be no certainty 
that any further proposal or offer will be forthcoming, the airline noted.
AERL.L climbed 2.6 percent in early trade to 2.41 pence, while IAG.L was up 2.42 percent at 548.99 pence.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
End of Document
IAG closes in on Aer Lingus with increased offer
IAG closes in on Aer Lingus with increased offer
City A.M.
January 26, 2015 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 226 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON
Body
IRISH flag carrier Aer Lingus is expected to recommend its shareholders approve a takeover bid by British Airways 
owner International Consolidated Airlines (IAG) today.
The most recent offer, which is the third that IAG has made since December, values the Irish airline at 
(EURO)1.34bn (£1bn), or (EURO)2.50 per share.
IAG's previous bids of (EURO)2.30 and (EURO)2.40 a share have been turned down during the past few weeks. 
Aer Lingus stated that IAG, which also owns Spanish carrier Iberia, had "fundamentally undervalued" the business 
in making its initial offer.
The deal would bring Aer Lingus back under the leadership of Willie Walsh, IAG's chief executive. Walsh was chief 
executive at Aer Lingus from 2001 until 2005.
The Irish government holds a 21.5 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, and Paschal Donohoe, minister for transport, told 
the country's national broadcaster RTE at the weekend that "huge care" will be taken in evaluating any proposal.
Meanwhile, market sources have previously speculated that a deal between the two would be welcomed by rival 
airline Ryanair. The budget carrier has a 29 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, and is currently appealing a ruling by he 
Competition Commission that it must reduce this stake to five per cent. Ryanair itself has made three failed 
attempts to take over Aer Lingus.
Both Aer Lingus and IAG declined to comment.
IAG closes in on Aer Lingus with increased offer
Graphic
 
Willie Walsh, ex-Aer Lingus boss and current IAG chief exec
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
End of Document
IAG will need Dublin's support to land Aer Lingus with EUR1.3bn bid Travel & leisure
IAG will need Dublin's support to land Aer Lingus with EUR1.3bn bid; Travel 
& leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
January 26, 2015 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 497 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
The Irish government will give serious consideration this week to the takeover of Aer Lingus if, as expected, a 
EUR1.3bn offer for the flag carrier is unveiled today.
International Airlines Group, parent of British Airways and Iberia, is poised to announce a formal offer for Aer Lingus 
pitched at about EUR2.50 a share. But its success will depend on whether Willie Walsh , IAG chief executive, can 
persuade the government to support the deal.
The Irish state owns 25.1 per cent of Aer Lingus, and the government is under growing pressure to block any IAG 
takeover either outright or if it does not include guarantees that the airline will continue to use its slots at London's 
Heathrow airport to fly to and from Ireland.
Paschal Donohoe, the transport minister, is expected to brief the cabinet on any takeover proposal tomorrow. He 
warned that the value of the government stake - about EUR325m, if IAG makes a EUR2.50 a share offer - was not 
the only issue that would be considered.
"I and the government will take huge care in evaluating any proposal that comes in," he told state broadcaster RTE 
yesterday. He said Ireland's international air connections were "vital to our ability to trade with the rest of the world".
IAG will need Dublin's support to land Aer Lingus with EUR1.3bn bid Travel & leisure
Top of the government's concerns is the fate of the 23 take-off and landing slots controlled by Aer Lingus at 
Heathrow. The airline is the fourth largest operator there behind BA, Lufthansa and Virgin Atlantic. Another factor is 
competition on the Dublin-London air route, one of the busiest in Europe.
Michael O'Leary , chief executive of Ryanair, which owns nearly 30 per cent of Aer Lingus after three failed 
takeover attempts that were blocked by the Irish government, hit out last week at Ireland's "national obsession" with 
Heathrow. But connections to Europe's busiest airport are a big political issue in the west and south of Ireland, 
where Aer Lingus flies from Shannon and Cork airports.
With a general election in the next year, opposition politicians have demanded the government block any Aer 
Lingus takeover. "The government must act to ensure that it does not allow Aer Lingus management to cave to any 
bid from IAG," said Timmy Dooley, the opposition transport spokesman, whose constituency includes Shannon 
airport.
People familiar with Aer Lingus said the board was ready to recommend an offer from IAG based on its value for all 
shareholders, after rejecting as too low two previous approaches in the past six weeks. Negotiations with IAG are 
being dealt with by Colm Barrington , Aer Lingus chairman, following the announcement late last year that 
Christoph Mueller , the chief executive, would leave to become chief executive of Malaysia Airlines.
Some observers cautioned, however, that EUR2.50 a share may not be enough to persuade other Aer Lingus 
shareholders, including Ryanair, to sell. David Holohan, head of research at Merrion Stockbrokers, said: "That is a 
level that will get the board interested, but some shareholders may want more."
Load-Date: January 25, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair CEO Vows $100 Round-trip Fares Between U.S. And Europe
Ryanair CEO Vows $100 Round-trip Fares Between U.S. And Europe
RTT News (United States)
January 26, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Michael O'Leary of Ryanair is promising $100 round-trip fares between the United States and Europe.
The CEO of the low cost Irish airline had told the Irish Independent they would be up and running within five years, 
and the goal would be to fly between 15 major European cities and 15 major U.S. cities.
"We'll need something in the order of 30-50 aircraft," said O'Leary. "We're not interested in doing something small 
scale."
O'Leary said the fares would be available on a Ryanair new subsidiary and some could cost as low as $10 as an 
incentive.
"The average price should be somewhere in the mid-?80s or mid-?90s." He said such a low-cost transatlantic 
airline fare could still make profits but would require cheap long-haul aircraft purchase.
O'Leary also is also looking at expansion to other countries such as Egypt, Turkey, Israel and Russia.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus Confirms Receipt Of Revised Proposal From IAG - Quick Facts
Aer Lingus Confirms Receipt Of Revised Proposal From IAG - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
January 26, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 134 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Aer Lingus Group plc (AERL.L) confirmed Monday that it has received a revised proposal 
from International Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A. (IAG.L) which values each Aer Lingus share at 2.55 euros 
comprising an all cash offer for the Company of 2.50 euros per share and a cash dividend of 0.05 euros per share.
Meanwhile, Aer Lingus stated that its board is considering the revised proposal.
The Revised Proposal remains conditional on, amongst other things, confirmatory due diligence, the 
recommendation of the Board of Aer Lingus and the receipt of irrevocable commitments from Ryanair Limited and 
the Minister for Finance of Ireland to accept the offer, Aer Lingus said.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
End of Document
Government considers latest IAG bid for Aer Lingus
Government considers latest IAG bid for Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
January 25, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 380 words
Body
The government is expected to consider the future of Aer Lingus in the coming days, following the latest bid from 
IAG for airline this weekend.
Transport minister Paschal Donohoe is awaiting a report on the value of the government's stake in Aer Lingus and 
on how any takeover would affect Ireland's international connectivity. He is expected to brief his cabinet colleagues 
on Tuesday. IAG, the parent company of British Airways, made Aer Lingus an improved offer of EUR 2.50 per 
share, the third such approach in six weeks.
Aer Lingus rejected the first and second offers of EUR 2.30 per share and EUR 2.40 per share. The airline declined 
to comment yesterday. The EUR 2.50 bid values the company at more than EUR 1.34 billion.
One of the sticking points in discussions has been the bearing the value of Aer Lingus's landing slots at Heathrow 
airport should have on the price offered by IAG.
The point was raised by Aer Lingus's two largest shareholders last week. Donohoe suggested in the Dáil on 
Tuesday that they had an impact on the valuation of the state's shareholding. The state has said that it valued its 
holding in the company at greater than EUR 300 million, at minimum price per share of around EUR 2.25.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, suggested that his airline could potentially buy any of Aer Lingus's 
landing rights if it arose as part of any required disposal by the Competition Authority on the occasion of a third bid.
Between them, the government and Ryanair constitute around 55 per cent of Aer Lingus's share capital, with 29.8 
per cent and 25.1 per cent respectively. On Friday, shares in Aer Lingus slumped to a low of EUR 2.35.
Few ministers see any economic rationale for holding onto the state's minority stake in the airline, but there will be 
significant political opposition to any decision to sell. Donohoe faced intense questioning at the Fine Gael 
parliamentary party meeting on Aer Lingus last week, and union opposition is likely to be felt in the Labour Party.
Government considers latest IAG bid for Aer Lingus
   The government will be treating any formal bid - if it comes - with extreme care and consideration,   Donohue told 
the The Sunday Business Post this weekend.    We will look at the implications for connectivity and competition as 
well as the impact on the Aer Lingus brand.  
Load-Date: January 25, 2015
End of Document
British Airways parent makes 3rd takeover bid for Aer Lingus
British Airways parent makes 3rd takeover bid for Aer Lingus
Associated Press Financial Wire
January 24, 2015 Saturday 10:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 138 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Officials say the parent company of British Airways has made a third, improved takeover approach 
to Irish airline Aer Lingus and an announcement of the offer is expected Monday.
The 2.50 euro ($2.80) per share offer by IAG values the Dublin-based carrier at 1.3 billion euros ($1.45 billion). 
Over the past month Aer Lingus has rejected two lower-priced proposals from IAG, created in 2009 by the merger 
of British Airways and Spanish airline Iberia.
Officials from IAG and Aer Lingus confirmed the value of Friday's improved offer to The Associated Press. They 
spoke on condition of anonymity Saturday because they were not authorized to disclose details in advance of 
Monday's anticipated announcements to stock exchanges in London and Dublin.
Aer Lingus' two biggest shareholders are Ryanair and the Irish government.
Load-Date: January 25, 2015
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
January 23, 2015 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 530 words
Body
Barclays fights back in dark pool case Barclays has stepped up its efforts to persuade a US judge to throw out a 
case brought by the New York attorney-general alleging the British bank misled clients about its secretive "dark 
pool" private trading venue. Eric Schneiderman's office filed an amended complaint against the bank on 
Wednesday which for the first time named the executives the state believes were involved in deceiving users of the 
dark pool.
Swedish upheaval over jet scandal The staid world of Swedish business was shaken yesterday when a scandal 
over the use of private jets triggered one of the biggest corporate upheavals in the country's recent history. 
Industrivaerden, the owner of controlling stakes in companies including Volvo, Ericsson and Sandvik, and 
Handelsbanken, Sweden's biggest bank and an Industrivaerden holding, will both get new chairmen and chief 
executives.
Broadcasters call Cameron's bluff Broadcasters have called David Cameron's bluff by setting out new proposals for 
televised election debates that would include the Green party - removing the Conservative leader's declared reason 
for refusing to take part. The latest format put forward by broadcasters includes no fewer than seven political 
parties, reflecting the increased atomisation of voting intentions in recent months.
Ryanair to operate out of Heathrow Ryanair will team up with global long-haul airlines to offer interconnecting short-
haul flights around Europe, which could result in the budget carrier feeding traffic into Heathrow for British Airways. 
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, admitted the move was a U-turn - he has spent 20 years lampooning flag 
carriers and saying he would never operate at Heathrow.
Carney accused of 'false' claims A senior adviser to the US financial regulator has accused Mark Carney of 
misleading the public with claims that progress has been made on ending the threat from too-big-to-fail banks.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
Qatar fund in final talks with Songbird Qatar's sovereign wealth fund made a last ditch plea to Canary Wharf 
shareholders yesterday to accept its £2.6bn takeover bid ahead of a looming deadline next week. The Qatar 
Investment Authority and Canadian firm Brookfield have set a first deadline of 29 January for Songbird Estates to 
tender their final cash 350p-a-share bid.
Ex-Asda chief exec sets up new chain Pepkor UK, the investment firm set up by former Asda chief executive Andy 
Bond and South African billionaire Christo Wiese, is launching a new discount fashion chain in the UK, Pep&Co. An 
initial 50 Pep&Co stores will open this summer.
Bank bosses win big salaries in 2014 The chiefs of two of the biggest US banks are set to receive more attractive 
pay packages for 2014. JP Morgan said chief executive James Dimon will receive $20m in total compensation for 
2014. Goldman Sachs, meanwhile, awarded its chief executive and chairman Lloyd Blankfein a salary and bonus 
worth up to $24 million for last year.
Statoil tightens belt in North Sea Amid years of high oil prices, Statoil spent $2.67bn on developing the Gudrun field, 
but since the field was approved in 2010, crude prices have fallen and the field is now just barely profitable.
Load-Date: January 23, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair announces new route from Glasgow to Berlin
Ryanair announces new route from Glasgow to Berlin
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 23, 2015 Friday 4:09 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 136 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced a new W15 route from Glasgow International Airport to Berlin and a fourth 
daily Glasgow-London Stansted service as part of its winter 2015 schedule.
Body
Ryanair will continue to connect Glasgow with Europe's major centres of business, including Dublin and London. 
Scottish customers can choose from 25 routes from Glasgow this summer (9 from Glasgow Intl & 16 from Glasgow 
Prestwick) while enjoying allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new 
app with mobile boarding passes, Family Extra and Business Plus, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, 
business and leisure travellers. In Glasgow, Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "2014 was a record year for Ryanair as 
we rolled out our "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme and we will continue to 
deliver further enhancements into 2015 and beyond. UK customers already choose Ryanair for our low fares and 
our industry leading customer service."
Load-Date: January 29, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to introduce six new London Stansted routes
Ryanair to introduce six new London Stansted routes
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 23, 2015 Friday 4:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 105 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that it will introduce six new London Stansted routes to Clermont, Cologne, 
Deauville, Edinburgh, Glasgow International and Ponta Delgada, Azores, as well as increased frequencies on 40 
other routes.
Body
Ryanair's London Stansted summer 2015 schedule will deliver: 130 routes in total (more than BA in LHR); more 
flights & improved schedules on 40 other routes; over 17m customers p.a.; and over 17,000 "on-site" jobs p.a. 
Ryanair also announced it will also increase its London Stansted services to Glasgow and Edinburgh from 3 to 4 
times daily for winter 2015, in response to phenomenal demand from business customers. In 2015, Ryanair will 
connect London Stansted with many of Europe's major centres of business, including Barcelona (4 x daily), 
Cologne (2), Dublin (8), Edinburgh (4), Glasgow (4) Madrid (4), Milan (4) and Rome (4).
Load-Date: January 29, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair to launch fourth daily Edinburgh-London Stansted service
Ryanair to launch fourth daily Edinburgh-London Stansted service
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 23, 2015 Friday 3:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 117 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that it will increase its Edinburgh-London Stansted service from three times 
to four times daily for winter 2015.
Body
Ryanair will also increase frequencies on 5 other routes from Edinburgh to Alicante, Frankfurt Hahn, Krakow, 
Malaga and Tenerife. In Edinburgh, Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "2014 was a record year for Ryanair as we 
rolled out our "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvement programme and we will continue to deliver 
further enhancements into 2015 and beyond. UK customers already choose Ryanair for our low fares and our 
industry leading customer service. "To celebrate our extended Edinburgh-London service, and 30th birthday, we 
are releasing 100,000 seats on sale from GBP19.99 for travel in February, March and April which are available for 
booking until midnight Thursday (22 Jan)."
Load-Date: January 29, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair eyes feeder role for long-haul; Ryanair Feeds
Ryanair eyes feeder role for long-haul; Ryanair Feeds
Business World (Digest)
January 22, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 431 words
Highlight: Legacy airlines such as British Airways, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa could soon start using low-cost 
carriers like Ryanair and easyJet to feed people onto their long-haul routes, say Ryanair executives.
Body
Legacy airlines such as British Airways, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa could soon start using low-cost carriers like 
Ryanair and easyJet to feed people onto their long-haul routes, say Ryanair executives.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Europe's biggest low-cost airline Ryanair, said that the days are numbered for 
how much longer national flag-carriers can operate intra-European flights because it was too expensive for them to 
compete on these point-to-point routes.
"If you go forward in Europe in the next five or 10 years, I think the low-cost carriers, mostly ourselves and easyJet 
will do a lot more feeding of major airlines," O'Leary said at a news conference in London on Wednesday.
British Airways, Lufthansa and Air France will instead concentrate on their more profitable long-haul routes, he said. 
Lufthansa and Air France are already using their own low-cost subsidiaries to operate some of their short-haul 
European routes in response to competition from the budget carriers. Ryanair's chief financial officer, Neil Sorahan, 
speaking in Dublin, said Ryanair would be unlikely to sign formal 'interline' agreements for feeder flights, but legacy 
carriers could instead schedule their long-haul flights to fit in with Ryanair's arrival times. O'Leary said it was 
possible that in future Ryanair could fly into London Heathrow, Britain's biggest airport which is not currently used 
by budget airlines, if it were contracted to do so by British Airways, but no discussions with legacy carriers were 
underway. Ryanair is already expanding into larger airports to win market share from legacy carriers but for now 
has ruled out flying to Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle and Frankfurt, Europe's three largest airports, due to 
costs and the time it would take to turn aircraft around. However, London Stansted Airport, Ryanair's biggest base, 
is in talks with airlines from the United States and the Middle East carriers about starting long-haul flights there, the 
airport's Managing Director Andrew Harrison said at the Ryanair event. O'Leary said Ryanair was open to 
connecting with any U.S. or Gulf airline flights into Stansted, London's third busiest airport. Meanwhile O'Leary 
declined to comment on British Airways owner IAG's attempt to buy Aer Lingus, the Irish national airline in which 
Ryanair eyes feeder role for long-haul; Ryanair Feeds
Ryanair still owns a 29.9 percent stake after its own takeover bid was blocked. "We would clearly give due 
consideration to any offer that was made by anybody for our stake, but that's not necessarily that we'd be happy to 
sell it," O'Leary said. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
End of Document
' Ryanair growth story is unrepeatable' Ryanair Story
'Ryanair growth story is unrepeatable'; Ryanair Story
Business World (Digest)
January 22, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 634 words
Highlight: Having been at the financial controls since Ryanair's traffic has climbed from under 1 million passengers 
a year to over 90 million, Howard Millar is confident no upstart can repeat that performance.
Body
Having been at the financial controls since Ryanair's traffic has climbed from under 1 million passengers a year to 
over 90 million, Howard Millar is confident no upstart can repeat that performance.
"That (low-cost) train has left the station a long time ago and I think it will be increasingly difficult for start-ups to 
gain any traction," he told Reuters on the sidelines of an annual aviation finance gathering in Dublin.
Millar, who stepped down last month as chief financial officer after nearly 23 years at the company, where he will 
still have a role as a non-executive director, said he cannot see either the continent's established giants or a 
newcomer having the opportunities Ryanair had when he joined.
Instead the sector will be dominated by a handful of all-powerful carriers, with Lufthansa, Air France-KLM and 
British Airways owner IAG focusing on long-haul, conceding the short-haul market to Ryanair and its nearest rival 
easyJet. A new player would struggle to get financing or planes as cheaply as Ryanair and would struggle to 
compete with its huge economies of scale and market presence, he said. And the so-called legacy carriers will 
ultimately have to concede that they can't retroactively transform their cost base and will therefore have to focus on 
lower volume, higher margin businesses. "These guys are in such a straitjacket that they don't have that 
opportunity. They have tried all kinds of things ... but none have made any money or reduced their cost base." 
When Millar joined Ryanair as financial controller in 1992 it was still struggling to compete on its services between 
Ireland and Britain against Aer Lingus and British Airways. But the then deputy chief executive Michael O'Leary, a 
fellow accountant, was already busy reinventing the airline as a low-cost carrier modelled closely on U.S. pioneer 
Southwest Airlines, just as the internal European aviation market was being opened up to competition. Huge 
success followed, but its disdain for frills became an apparent disdain for customers, due to practices such as 
charging passengers for not printing their own boarding passes and being unduly strict on hand luggage 
allowances. Ryanair only became alarmed two years ago when it saw its profits falling at the same time as 
' Ryanair growth story is unrepeatable' Ryanair Story
easyJet's were soaring. "I think we became overly rules focused ... we put a series of rigid rules in place that were 
enforced even when common sense didn't apply," Millar said. Following a pledge by O'Leary to stop "unnecessarily 
pissing people off," Ryanair has since changed such practices while shifting its focus to also include trying to attract 
more business traffic. As a result Ryanair's share price has climbed by 50 percent in the 16 months while easyJet's 
shares are up 30 percent. But Millar insists that unlike improvements at Southwest, the changes at the airline have 
still not added to the cost base. "Our cost price was 29 euros last year and its going to be 29 euros this year as well 
... not one of the customer experience improvements has impacted the business." Ryanair says this 29 euros cost 
per passenger, excluding fuel, compares with 52 euros at easyJet and 62 euros at Norwegian Air Shuttle. Millar, 
who has left the airline with 280 new planes on order and the highest credit rating in the airline industry, also said 
he had no regrets about another legacy -- leaving 90 percent of fuel needs hedged to March next year at dollar 93 
per barrel -- close to double the current price. Hedging gave certainty on the cost base to investors and those 
setting ticket prices a year in advance. "It's not a regret at all. We've been using this strategy since the early 90s 
and it's worked incredibly well for us. You can't run a long term business on short term decisions." (Reuters) For 
more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 27, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair appoints head of sales and marketing
Ryanair appoints head of sales and marketing
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 22, 2015 Thursday 7:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 187 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced the appointment of Carol O'Neill as its new head of sales and marketing.
Body
Carol Anne O'Neill is joining Ryanair on 26th January from Falcon/Thomson, where she is Head of Ireland. She 
brings with her 28 years of experience in the travel industry, having previously worked for XL Airways and Wings 
Abroad, and will oversee Ryanair's sales & marketing team and activities across 30 countries in Europe and North 
Africa. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "We are pleased to appoint Carol Anne O'Neill as our 
new Head of Sales & Marketing. Her extensive experience and knowledge will be a key asset to Ryanair, as we 
continue to roll out our 'Always Getting Better' customer experience improvement programme, and grow traffic, 
routes and tourism across Europe, with more than 90m people set to fly Ryanair this year." Carol Anne O'Neill said: 
"I am delighted to be appointed Head of Sales and Marketing for Ryanair, Europe's largest airline. These are 
exciting times for Ryanair with plans for extensive passenger growth, digital enhancements and continued customer 
service experience improvements and I'm looking forward to joining the Ryanair team and the challenges that lie 
ahead."
Load-Date: January 28, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair says may return to bond market Ryanair bond
Ryanair says may return to bond market; Ryanair bond
Business World (Digest)
January 21, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Ryanair could return to the bond market in the next 12-18 months after its debut bond in June was well 
received, the airline's chief financial officer told Reuters today.
Body
Ryanair could return to the bond market in the next 12-18 months after its debut bond in June was well received, 
the airline's chief financial officer told Reuters today.
"This is a market that we will come back to at some stage over the next 12-18 months," Neil Sorahan said in an 
interview.
After gaining an investment grade credit rating, Ryanair borrowed 850 million euros in its first bond issue in June. 
Sorahan said the airline had offers on that day totalling 6.4 billion euros.
"There's still a lot of people out there who wanted to get access to Ryanair debt and who didn't," he said. He said 
Ryanair was well covered with its capex needs for the current year to the end of March, and was looking at various 
financing options for the roughly 1 billion euros in capex planned for the next financial year. Ryanair is reaping the 
benefits of a strategy shift to be nicer to customers, cutting some of its charges, providing free allocated seating and 
allowing passengers to take two bags into the cabin. Sorahan said ancilliary revenues, which grew 17 percent to 
1.25 billion euros in the last financial year, would therefore be flat this year as Ryanair loses out on some of that 
revenue, but that additional costs incurred such as for marketing were being offset by winning more passengers to 
fill its planes. Ryanair reported a 20 percent rise in passenger numbers for December, sending its shares to an all-
time high. "The biggest cost was a lot of the fees we gave up, like the boarding cards, the bags at the gate. But 
we're getting it back in passenger numbers," Sorahan said. He said the airline expected its load factor for the 
2014/15 financial year will be 87 percent, compared with 82 percent for the previous year. (Reuters) For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
Ryanair says may return to bond market Ryanair bond
End of Document
O'Leary: Regulators favour AIG/AL deal; A Lingus Deal
O'Leary: Regulators favour AIG/AL deal; A Lingus Deal
Business World (Digest)
January 21, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 197 words
Highlight: European and UK regulators are likely to favour an IAG takeover of Aer Lingus if a new offer is made, 
Ryanair's chief executive officer Michael O'Leary told Bloomberg today.
Body
European and UK regulators are likely to favour an IAG takeover of Aer Lingus if a new offer is made, Ryanair's 
chief executive officer Michael O'Leary told Bloomberg today.
"I suspect the regulatory authorities will fall over themselves to encourage an IAG takeover," Mr O'Leary told 
Bloomberg News.
While the IAG bid "isn't the last option for Aer Lingus," it "clearly demonstrates that Aer Lingus has no viable 
independent future, the only question is, which partner?" Bloomberg reported.
International Airlines Group is mulling a higher indicative offer for Aer Lingus after seeing two earlier proposals 
dismissed, according to sources. The most recent, at E2.40 for each share, which valued the Irish airline at E1.28 
billion, is 40 cents lower than the amount offered by Ryanair in 2006 in the first of three unsuccessful takeover 
attempts by the budget carrier. "Our stake has been for sale for about an 18-month period," Mr O'Leary said. 
"We've gone to most of the leading airlines in Europe, including IAG, all of whom turned us down," he told 
Bloomberg, adding that he has not discussed the most recent proposal with either IAG or Aer Lingus. For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 26, 2015
End of Document
Never too late: if you missed the IPKat last week ...
Never too late: if you missed the IPKat last week ...
Newstex Blogs
IPKat Weblog
January 19, 2015 Monday 4:31 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 2019 words
Body
Jan 19, 2015( IPKat Weblog: http://ipkitten.blogspot.com Delivered by Newstex)  Here, courtesy of our gallant and 
ever-dependable Katfriend Alberto Bellan,[1] is the 29th consecutive "Never Too Late" post, in which the contents of 
last week's substantive Katposts are carefully summarised so that our readers who were too busy or absent last 
week can skim through them and see which ones they missed. Click the title and you can read it in full. Anyway, 
here they are: * A film about Martin Luther King without King's actual words: is it really a copyright problem?
[2] Selma is a film about Martin Luther King that does not feature any actual extracts from his historic speeches. Is 
that copyright's fault, wonders Eleonora? * Copyright judgments in 2015: what's in the pipeline from the CJEU (and 
will we be able to understand them?)[3]2015 will be another busy copyright year for the Court of Justice of the 
European Union, and this post by Tom lists all the decisions we are waiting for, and why. * Big, green and 
understated: the new Modern Law of Patents[4]Jeremy presents the third edition of The Modern Law of Patents, 
which Katfriends Ashley Roughton, Phillip Johnson, and Trevor Cook have manufactured with love and just 
published with LexisNexis. * China's IP journey: from 'bad guys' to 'good guys' to patent superpower[5]Suleman 
takes a look at the development of the Chinese patent system and how China has made the transition from being a 
'pirate' nation to a 'protector' of patent rights, acquiring a functional modern patent system in three decades. What 
can we learn any lessons from China's story? * BREAKING NEWS: someone wants to register 'Je suis Charlie' as a 
trade mark[6] and it is not Charlie Hebdo, explains Eleonora. * Lions, unicorns and the prospect of a 
licence[7]Prospective licensees of the UK IPO logo are required to complete and submit a form and comply with 
some conditions of use provided by the UK Trade Mark Act. The regime entails some interesting peculiarities 
though, explains Jeremy. * An Enterprising Victory, with Arnold J in the driving seat[8]To what extent can context 
change the likelihood of confusion? Does a survey ever help? How do you consider the position where a proportion 
of the customer base comes from overseas? These questions, among other things, find a response in High Court 
for England and Wales, Chancery Division's ruling of Mr Justice Arnold in Enterprise Holdings Inc v Europcar Group 
UK and Another [2015] EWHC 17 (Ch), which Katfriend Aaron Wood[9] (Swindell ...arson Ltd) kindly reports. * 
Copyright in Spain: a month without Google News[10]Spanish IP enthusiast Mmchel Olmedo Cuevas[11] explains 
how humanity has fared in Spain, a month after the withdrawal there of the Google News service. * BREAKING: 
CJEU says that owner of an online database not protected by copyright or sui generis right may restrict its use by 
contract[12]The CJEU has just issued its 46-paragraph decision[13] in Case C-30/14 Ryanair, a reference for a 
preliminary ruling from The Netherlands seeking clarification as regards the Database Directive[14]. As Eleonora 
explains, the CJEU considered whether it is ok to contractually limit the use of online databases which are not 
protected on the basis of the Directive. * Can Unified Patent Court and national laws of infringement diverge? An 
Never too late: if you missed the IPKat last week ...
IPKat dialogue[15]As he explained in an earlier post [here[16]], Darren is truly convinced that the UPC Agreement 
[17]will lead UPC Members to conform their national law of patent infringement to that specified in the UPCA 
(Articles 25 to 30). But not all think alike, as this Kat dialogue between Darren and Donal Kelly[18], senior associate 
at FR Kelly, well-illustrates. * Monaco "devoid of distinctive character", rules EU court[19]The General Court 
delivered its judgement in Case T-197/13[20] Monaco v OHIM. The result must have disappointed the brand-
sensitive denizens of the Principality [whose devotion to the exclusive use of the Monaco-based geographical 
location "Monte Carlo" has been ridiculed in this weblog here[21] and here[22]], observes Jeremy. * Major Italian 
newspaper infringes artists' copyright on account that it would have taken too long to clear the rights[23]As 
Eleonora reports, the Italian most important newspaper Corriere della Sera released a collection of cartoons by 
professional and amateur artists to raise funds in favour of Charlie Hebdo. In the name of freedom of press, the 
Corriere also introduced into the Italian system a brand-new Exception For-Charity, which applies whenever one 
promises to destine revenues of the infringement to a good cause and is in a hurry to ride on the crest of a recent 
tragedy. * GoPro and the Apple patent: buy on the rumour, sell on the fact?[24]As a general rule, the granting of a 
one-off patent is usually not a market-moving event. But companies like Apple are an exception, as last week's 
grant of a patent in the digital camera system area made shares in GoPro slipped more than 13%. It is often said on 
Wall Street that 'one buys on the rumour and sells on the fact', but the sale of the GoPro shares was as much about 
rumour and speculation as fact, observes Neil. * Biotech patent case law: why is it different, idiosyncratic and 
always changing?[25]This is the third post in series of six on biotech inventions [the earlier posts can be found 
here[26] and here[27]] kindly provided by Suleman. Among other things, this piece provide a thoughtful in-sight view 
over biotech-inventions' subject matter and criteria that lead those inventions to meet the inventive step 
requirement. * JE SUIS CHARLIE: Alicante acts on speculative trade mark applications[28]The Office for 
Harmonisation in the Internal Market issued a recent statement saying that whoever tries to apply for a 'Je suis 
Charlie' trade mark [on which see earlier Katposts here [29]and here[30]; Class 46 here [31]and the MARQUES 
LinkedIn Discussion Group here[32]] might experience some problems. You'd better not mess with the Alicante 
guys, bro. ****************************** PREVIOUSLY, ON NEVER TOO LATE Never too late 28[33] [week ending 
Sunday 11 January] -- German Minister for Agriculture against GIs | Europe's 2015 resolutions re innovation | All 
the must-read IP blogs | UK and EU Parliaments v the EPO | The bizzarre EPO BoA's Business Distribution 
Scheme | UPC location in London | New spare-part reference to the CJEU | Sir Robin Jacob and other Europe 
Judges for judicial independence (at EPO) |Reform of EPO Boards of Appeal | Data brokers and IP | The Research 
Handbook on Cross-Border Enforcement Of Intellectual Property, a review | China's patent targets for 2020 | 
Reproduction of Charie Hebdo cartoons without permission | Bioderma trade mark litigation | Biotech ethics. Never 
too late 27[34] [week ending Sunday 4 January] -- The Irish PTO on well-known TMs' extended protection in Stone 
Electrical Ltd v British Sky Broadcasting Group plc | The Irish PTO on revocation for non-use in HBI Branded 
Apparel Enterprises LLC v Dunnes Stores Ireland Company | Criminal penalty for infringement in Sweden | 
Congratulations to Trevor Graham Baylis | Australia copyright reforms and copyright enforcement on-line | The new 
guest Kats | New USPTO guidance on Patent Matter Eligibility | Confusion between TM with little distinctiveness | 
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Pom Wonderful LLC v Hubbard et al | Biotech inventions: controversies, case 
law, uncertainties and financing. Never too late 26 [35][week ending Sunday 28 December] -- Arnold J on Ice cream 
van design in Whitby Specialist Vehicles v Yorkshire Specialist Vehicles | Adios to positive right of TM in Spain | 
Costs of Vestergaard Fransen v Bestnet Europe | Irish PTO on slogan TMs | Merpel summarises what's going on 
with EPO | CoA for England and Wales on patent infringement by numbers in Jarden Consumer Solutions (Europe) 
Ltd v SEB SA...other | Database rights and much more in Medical Innovations Ltd v Eakins and others | What if 
China turns inwards on technology? | European Copyright Society on full harmonisation of copyright | Book review 
of Biotechnology and Intellectual Property Rights. Never too late 25[36] [week ending Sunday 21 December] --
Setting aside default judgements at the IPO | 2015, the year of blocking injunctions? | The future of private copy 
levies in the EU | Kat-tips for IP conferences | Appeals at EPO: beware of what you ask | EPO BoA's independence 
| CJEU in International Stem Cell Corporation | IPKat's 2014 Copyright Awards | Waze and innovation drawbacks | 
Battistelli and Kongstad interviewed | Porcelains that copy advertising | Jay-z's 'Oh' sample gets its decision, yo. [ 
1]: https://twitter.com/albertobellan [ 2]:            http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/a-film-about-martin-luther-king-
without.html [ 3]:            http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/copyright-judgments-in-2015-whats-in.html [ 4]:            
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/big-green-and-understated-new-modern.html 
[ 
5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/chinas-ip-journey-from-bad-guys-to-good.html 
[ 
6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/breaking-news-someone-wants-to-register.html 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Never too late: if you missed the IPKat last week ...
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/lions-unicorns-and-prospect-of-licence.html 
[ 
8]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/an-enterprising-victory-with-arnold-j.html 
[ 
9]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.patents.co.uk/meet_the_team.html#member-aaron-wood 
[ 
10]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/copyright-in-spain-month-without-google.html 
[ 
11]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.linkedin.com/pub/m%C3%ADchel-olmedo-cuevas/67/548/335 
[ 
12]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/breaking-cjeu-says-that-owner-of-online.html 
[ 
13]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://curia.europa.eu/juris/document/document.jsf?text=...id=161388...eIndex=0...lang=EN...e=req...=...=first...t=1...
=331775 [ 14]:            http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:31996L0009...m=EN [ 15]:       
     http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/can-unified-patent-court-and-national.html [ 16]:            
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2013/04/harmonisation-by-back-door-what-will.html [ 17]:            http://www.unified-
patent-court.org/images/documents/upc-agreement.pdf [ 18]:            http://frkelly.com/people/donal-m-kelly [ 19]:       
     http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/monaco-devoid-of-distinctive-character.html [ 20]:            
http://curia.europa.eu/juris/documents.jsf?num=T-197/13 [ 21]:            http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2013/07/out-of-
plaice-monte-carlo-beached-in.html [ 22]:            http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2013/10/monte-carlo-takes-gamble-
provides-fun.html [ 23]:            http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/major-italian-newspaper-infringes.html [ 24]:       
     http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/gopro-and-apple-patent-buy-on-rumour.html [ 25]:            
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/biotech-patent-case-law-why-is-it.html 
[ 
26]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/biotech-inventions-controversies-case.html 
[ 
27]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/the-ethics-of-biotech-patenting.html 
[ 
28]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/je-suis-charlie-alicante-acts-on.html 
[ 
29]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/breaking-news-someone-wants-to-register.html 
[ 
30]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/wednesday-whimsies-2.html 
[ 
31]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marques.org/Class46/default.asp?XID=BHA3970 
[ 
32]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=1838945...=anetsrch_name...ack=.gdr_1239194269827_1 [ 33]:            
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/never-too-late-if-you-missed-ipkat-last_12.html 
[ 
34]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.it/2015/01/never-too-late-if-you-missed-ipkat-last.html 
[ 
35]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2014/12/never-too-late-if-you-missed-ipkat-last_29.html 
[ 
36]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2014/12/never-too-late-if-you-missed-ipkat-last_22.html 
Load-Date: January 19, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus and IAG battle over bid price
Aer Lingus and IAG battle over bid price
Sunday Business Post
January 18, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 438 words
Body
Aer Lingus and IAG, the company that owns British Airways, are still locked in talks aimed at agreeing on a price 
before any third bid is made for the Irish flag carrier, *The Sunday Business Post*understands.
Industry experts were expecting a fresh offer from IAG for Aer Lingus last week, but the two sides are still thrashing 
out a deal.
Earlier this month, IAG disclosed in a filing to the Irish Stock Exchange that it had made a cash offer of EUR 2.40 
per share on December 29, 2014.
This was an increase of 10 cent on the EUR 2.30 bid IAG made for the airline on December 18. Both were rejected 
by the board of Aer Lingus as an undervaluation.
Earlier this month, IAG retained Dublin stockbrokers Goodbody as its local adviser, which was seen as a signal that 
the airline had escalated its efforts to push through a deal.
According to David Holohan, head of research at stockbroking firm Merrion Solutions, the next bid is likely to be a 
final offer.
   I don't think IAG can keep going up in increments of 10 cent, the bid price needs to go to somewhere between 
EUR 2.60 or EUR 2.70,   he said.    The next move out of IAG will be a final offer that the board of Aer Lingus can 
recommend to its shareholders.  
Andrew Lobbenberg, an analyst with HSBC, said the deal was likely to be a win-win for one of those shareholders - 
Ryanair.
   Ryanair is in the interesting position of being a potential seller and the most obvious provider of remedies,   he 
wrote, meaning that a bid of EUR 2.60 would value their holding at more than EUR 400 million, while the Michael 
Aer Lingus and IAG battle over bid price
O'Leary-led company would also be the primary beneficiary of any mandated disposals of airport slots by the 
competition authorities.
Last week Kenny Jacobs, marketing manager for Ryanair, Aer Lingus's biggest shareholder, told the media that the 
low-fares airline had been ready to sell its 29.8 per cent stake in its rival Aer Lingus    for a while   and was    still 
open to offers  .
Aer Lingus's other big shareholder, the Irish government, is understood to be in favour of any deal that values its 
shareholding at greater than EUR 300 million.
One of the smaller shareholders in Aer Lingus, businessman Denis O'Brien, currently holds just under 2.4 per cent 
of the company.
.....
**Aer Lingus shareholders**
**1**Ryanair Holdings: 29.8 per cent
**2**Minister for Finance: 25.1 per cent
**3**Fidelity Worldwide Investment: 5.2 per cent
**4**Old Mutual: 5 per cent
**5**Etihad Airways: 4.1 per cent
**6**Canada Life: 2.9 per cent
**7**Irish Life Investment Managers: 2.8 per cent
**8**Denis O'Brien: 2.4 per cent
**9**Wellington Management: 1.8 per cent
**10**Investec: 1.5 per cent
Load-Date: January 19, 2015
End of Document
Movers & Shakers
Movers & Shakers
Sunday Business Post
January 18, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 171 words
Body
Carol Anne O'Neill is Ryanair's new head of sales and marketing. O'Neill is joining from Falcon Holidays/Thomson, 
where she was head of Ireland
.....
Quintas has promoted Dave O'Brien to the position of tax director. He joined Quintas 18 months ago as tax 
manager, from Ernst & Young
.....
Siobhán Cusack is Trilogy's new sales manager for Ireland. Cusack joined the company five years ago as business 
development manager and, before that, was an account manager with IT Focus.
.....
Tiziana Margaria has been appointed University of Limerick's professor of software systems and a principal 
investigator at the Irish Software Research Centre
. She was at Germany's Potsdam University where she was professor of software engineering.
*Looking for the top talent? Ready for your next opportunity? With 156 offices across 34 countries we have an 
unrivalled network of talented professionals and world-class job opportunities. Get in touch with our Dublin office 
now to find out how we can help you. Tel:+(353) 01 653 9800 michaelpage.ie*
Load-Date: January 19, 2015
Movers & Shakers
End of Document
FT Diary
FT Diary
Financial Times (London, England)
January 17, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 2
Length: 902 words
Byline: Jeremy Paxman
Body
I've often wondered whether politicians suffer the same pangs of uncertainty or l'esprit d'escalier as the rest of us. 
Do they leave the chamber of the House of Commons or the television studio thinking, "Why on earth did I say 
that?" I hope they do, but fear that our idiotic expectation of certainty on all matters, and journalism's pathetic 
tendency to scream "U-turn" (as if changing your mind is a sin), makes it unlikely that many would admit to doing 
so.
I have certainly suffered second thoughts since wondering, in my last FT Diary, how many people knew what the 
Royal Navy was for. It used to be such an integral part of our culture. I was suffering from what I am told by an old 
sea dog is called "sea blindness".
The salt in question was Rear Admiral Chris Parry, who makes a convincing case for the importance of sea power 
in his book Super Highway: Sea Power in the 21st Century . He argues that in our obsession with virtual reality we 
have lost sight of true reality, and that the Chinese and others have not made the same mistake. He takes as his 
touchstone Sir Walter Raleigh's observation: "Whosoever commands the sea, commands the trade; whosoever 
commands the trade of the world commands the riches of the world, and consequently the world itself."
We rather lose sight of the fact that so many of those products that make cyberspace work have to be brought to us 
from the other side of the globe. In an ideal world, argues Parry, a countrywould want its ships designed by Italians, 
built by Koreans, with US systems, sailing shipping lanes run by the Danes and a resource base provided by the 
Gulf states. Britain's contribution? "A naval heritage."
FT Diary
Time for third thoughts, I think.
I see that BT has taken a well-meritedplace nearly at the bottom of a list of the empathetic qualities of 100 
companies. It is scant comfort for those who have fallen foul of their service that they're not quite as bad as Ryanair 
and Carphone Warehouse on the ranking by creative agency Lady Geek. Though few of us will be surprised by the 
company they're keeping.
The iron rule about technology problems is that It Is Always Your Fault. Except that it isn't - as BlackBerry's 
spectacular service collapse showed a few years ago. As a human being, it's very hard to avoid feeling tremendous 
sympathy for the people on any tech company's helpdesk, if you can ever get hold of it. It is where impotence 
collides with promise, a punchbag for distressed brides left standing at the altar by a heartless, unreasonable 
bastard.
Human understanding is a very big mistake, though. The last time I called the BT helpdesk, a very nice man in 
Mumbai answered over a phone line which was not much of an advertisement for a telecoms company. The usual 
runaround followed. I then committed the critical mistake of letting him get off the line. You should never, ever, do 
this, however irritating the conversation may have been thus far. I explained it would take me a few minutes to 
rootle out the bit of paper with my wi-fi password on it and I didn't want to waste his time. But being thoughtful has 
no place in these transactions. He promised to call me back in half an hour. That was at the end of December and 
I'm still waiting.
On the subject of awards, I propose anew one for Brazen Nonsense of the Year. My frontrunner this week is Tom 
Hodgkinson, editor of the Idler magazine, a fine publication dedicated to loafing about, occasionally drinking tea and 
wondering how many angels can dance on the head of a pin.
The Idler makes you proud to be English. But it turns out to have been infected with the same ants-in-your-pants 
spirit of overactivity as the rest of us. So far this year, I have been sent emails encouraging me to learn to sing; to 
sew sequins; to improve my punctuation; to overcome my fear of bookkeeping; to understand philosophy; to write 
like a monk; to stuff a mouse; to play the ukulele, to make a strap for my ukulele and much, much more.
These are all skills I should love to have: the mouse-taxidermy especially. But they are decidedly unloafy. This 
despite Hodgkinson having the nerve to open the Idler's New Year email with the line: "There is only one resolution 
that needs to be made and it is this: take more naps in 2015." It is like listening to some tax-dodging rock star 
holding forth on global inequality. The man is a fraud.
Talking of which, I was crossing thestreet in St James's the other day when a car stopped and the very Italian-
sounding driver asked if I could tell him the way to Heathrow airport. Easy enough - left on Piccadilly, take the 
underpass, down through Knightsbridge, left down by Harrods and then the Cromwell Road all the way.
As the driver's eyes began to glaze over he suddenly said: "You've been very kind. Would you like a suit?"
I told him I wasn't in the habit of buying suits from the backs of cars on street corners, and he explained. He didn't 
want me to buy  one at all. He had been in London for a fashion show and had a couple of Armani suits that he 
didn't want to bother taking back to Italy. He would very much like to give me one.
I like a bargain as much as the next man. But it was so odd that - even after two more protestations that he didn't 
want me to pay a penny - I said, "Thanks, but no thanks," and walked on. It seemed pretty obvious to me that it was 
a scam of some sort. But how on earth does it work?
Jeremy Paxman is an FT contributing editor
Load-Date: January 16, 2015
FT Diary
End of Document
Irish hotels: Protect Heathrow slots Aer Lingus Bid
Irish hotels: Protect Heathrow slots; Aer Lingus Bid
Business World (Digest)
January 16, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 194 words
Highlight: The Irish Hotels Federation (IHF) today urged the Government to do everything in its power to ensure 
the long-term retention of the Aer Lingus take-off and landing slots at Heathrow for routes to and from Irish airports.
Body
The Irish Hotels Federation (IHF) today urged the Government to do everything in its power to ensure the long-term 
retention of the Aer Lingus take-off and landing slots at Heathrow for routes to and from Irish airports.
Stephen McNally, President of the IHF, expressed concern at the prospect of the 23 slots being re-allocated to 
other routes following a potential takeover of the airline.
In light of the recent offers by International Airlines Group, Mr McNally states: "The Heathrow slots are of critical 
strategic importance to Ireland and the longterm prospects of our national tourism product. Any agreement that fails 
to safeguard these slots for Irish routes would have serious long-term implications for Irish tourism and air 
connectivity into the country, and particularly the regions. It is imperative that the Government secures contractual 
rights to determine the use of these slots as part of a possible sale of the State's interest in the airline."
Earlier this week, Ryanair, a major shareholder in Aer Lingus, issued a statement saying that a second offer is likely 
to be made for Aer Lingus in a matter of days. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 20, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair welcomes screenscraper ruling; Ryanair Case
Ryanair welcomes screenscraper ruling; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
January 15, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 284 words
Highlight: Ryanair today welcomed the EU Court of Justice ruling restricting access to Ryanair's database by 
alleged "screenscraper" website PR Aviation.
Body
Ryanair today welcomed the EU Court of Justice ruling restricting access to Ryanair's database by alleged 
"screenscraper" website PR Aviation.
The Court of Justice, in a referral from the Dutch Supreme Court, was asked to determine whether owners of an 
online database such as Ryanair's can use contractual restrictions to prevent the copying or use of their databases.
The European Commission supported Ryanair's argument that it is entitled to post terms and conditions on its 
website that prevent PR Aviation from screenscraping its database and using it for commercial purposes.
Ryanair has been engaged in several legal cases against screenscraper websites across Europe to prevent its 
customers from being subjected to extra charges and to ensure Ryanair has appropriate contact details to 
communicate with its customers, it said. "Many of these websites continue to cause problems for Ryanair 
customers and/or fail/refuse to pass on vital information to both passengers and Ryanair regarding issues such as 
flight changes, web check-in, special needs assistance and contact details, which has resulted in missed flights and 
repeated problems for customers." Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair welcomes the EU Court of Justice ruling 
which confirms that Ryanair can prevent PR Aviation from screenscraping the Ryanair database and using this 
information for commercial purposes. Ryanair will continue to pursue screenscraper websites such as PR Aviation 
to prevent Europe's consumers from being misled over price and booking conditions. We would again urge 
customers to book directly on the Ryanair.com website to guarantee the lowest fares and best customer service." 
For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 19, 2015
Ryanair welcomes screenscraper ruling; Ryanair Case
End of Document
EU court: Ryanair can block unauthorized price comparisons
EU court: Ryanair can block unauthorized price comparisons
Associated Press Financial Wire
January 15, 2015 Thursday 1:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 192 words
Dateline: LUXEMBOURG 
Body
LUXEMBOURG (AP) - The European Union's top court ruled Thursday that Ryanair has the right to block or impose 
conditions on price comparison websites that mine data from the budget carrier's online database without its 
permission.
The European Court of Justice said price and flight information linked to Ryanair's website is not covered by a 
European Union directive on databanks, and that means the airline can limit its use by others.
The court ruled in a long-running dispute in Dutch courts between Ryanair and Dutch company PR Aviation over a 
practice known as screen scraping.
Ryanair welcomed the ruling and urged passengers to use the carrier's own website to book flights. PR Aviation 
could not immediately be reached for comment.
"Ryanair will continue to pursue screen scraper websites such as PR Aviation to prevent Europe's consumers from 
being misled over price and booking conditions," airline spokesman Robin Kiely said in a written statement.
Ryanair is Europe's biggest budget airline. Last month, the Dublin-based carrier said it expected net profits for the 
fiscal year ending in March to reach at least 810 million euros ($950 million).
Load-Date: January 16, 2015
End of Document
BREAKING: CJEU says that owner of an online database not protected by copyright or sui generis right may 
restrict its use by contract
BREAKING: CJEU says that owner of an online database not protected by 
copyright or sui generis right may restrict its use by contract
Newstex Blogs
IPKat Weblog
January 15, 2015 Thursday 2:49 PM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 1139 words
Body
Jan 15, 2015 (IPKat Weblog:http://ipkitten.blogspot.com Delivered by Newstex)            http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-
LdVdLDhCouY/VLd97F6437I/AAAAAAAAGJE/jVVklrbv5P0/s1600/CJEU-logo.jpgAs Tom explained[1] a few days 
ago, 2015 will be a busy copyright year at everybody's favourite court, ie the Court of Justice of the European Union 
(CJEU), with both a number of cases awaiting decision and new ones likely to be referred by national courts.
 Well, today's the day of the first copyright judgment of the year. The CJEU has just issued its 46-paragraph 
decision[2] in Case C-30/14 Ryanair, a reference for a preliminary ruling from The Netherlands seeking clarification 
as regards the ever-sexy Database Directive[3] [Directive 96/9]. There are two peculiarities of this reference worth 
highlighting, one shocking and the other, well, not-so-shocking. Starting with the latter, this is yet another case that 
the CJEU decided without the need for the Opinion of an Advocate General (AG) first [on the seemingly fading role 
of AGs in the EU copyright landscape see http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2014/06/luxembourg-we-have-problem-
where-have.htmlhere]. As regards the shocking feature of this reference, this is that this time the CJEU had to 
answer just one (1!) question, ie: Does the operation of the [Database Directive] also extend to online databases 
which are not protected by copyright on the basis of Chapter II of the Directive, and also not by a sui generis right 
on the basis of Chapter III, in the sense that the freedom to use such databases through the (whether or not 
analogous) application of Articles 6(1) and 8 in conjunction with Article 15 [of the Database Directive], may not be 
limited contractually? Incidentally Merpel notes that neither the lack of an AG Opinion nor the fact that the CJEU 
only had to address one question prevented the Court from taking almost one year to deliver its ruling. But what 
was 
this 
case 
all 
about? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-
xXGG3USf0oA/VLeGN5rlFSI/AAAAAAAAGJU/kD9Lhexh7eM/s1600/ryanair-Low-Fare-Airlines-006.jpg Background 
Dutch company PR Aviation operates a website[4] that allows [or rather: allowed?] customers in The Netherlands to 
compare the prices of low-cost airlines - including Ryanair - and, upon payment of a commission, book a flight. The 
problem is that the Terms of Use[5] of the Ryanair website provide that this "is the only website authorised to sell 
Ryanair flights, whether on their own or as part of a package. Price comparison websites may apply to enter into a 
written Licence Agreement with Ryanair, which permits such websites to access Ryanair's price, flight and timetable 
information for the sole purpose of price comparison." It is not hard to imagine that Ryanair was not happy with the 
PR Aviation website, and indeed brought proceedings in The Netherlands for infringement of both Ryanair's 
contractual terms and rights - whether copyright or sui generis right - in its public database.In 2010 the Local Court, 
Utrecht, partly dismissed Ryanair's claims, notably those relating to the Database Directive and its Dutch 
BREAKING: CJEU says that owner of an online database not protected by copyright or sui generis right may 
restrict its use by contract
transposition. In 2012 Court of Appeal, Amsterdam, completely ruled against Ryanair, holding that PR Aviation's 
conduct was a legitimate use of the Ryanair website. Ryanair appealed the decision before the Netherlands 
Supreme Court, which decided to stay the proceedings and refer the question mentioned above to the CJEU. What 
the CJEU held The CJEU ruled that the Database Directive only applies to databases protected by copyright or the 
sui generis right [it is left to the referring court to determine whether this is actually the case of Ryanair], and that the 
holder of a publicly accessible database is free to determine by contract and in compliance with the applicable 
national law the conditions of use of its database.The same would not be true for a database protected by copyright 
or the sui generis right, because of a number of provisions, ie Articles 6(1), 8 and 15, in the Database Directive that 
- at certain conditions - prohibit contractual limitations in the use of a database.In particular the CJEU held that: "it is 
clear from the purpose and structure of Directive 96/9 that Articles 6(1), 8 and 15 thereof, which establish 
mandatory rights for lawful users of databases, are not applicable to a database which is not protected either by 
copyright or by the sui generis right under that directive, so that it does not prevent the adoption of contractual 
clauses concerning the conditions of use of such a database." [para 39]            http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-y-
8EQGpGozE/VLeN0VGazEI/AAAAAAAAGJk/nkgJnMX8x1A/s1600/IMG_2014.PNG So? This ruling does not look 
particularly shocking from a legal standpoint, yet it may have significant implications for the business model of those 
websites that, not only offer users the possibility to compare the prices of relevant goods or services, but also allow 
them to purchase such goods and services directly, without the need of going to the website of the actual provider 
of goods and services. But why could one possibly want to prevent customers from purchasing goods and services 
via third-party-operated websites? One reason may be to ensure the consistent quality of the services and goods 
provided, including with regard to post-sale assistance. For instance, in the string of recent cases against 
screenscraper websites, Ryanair has claimed[6] that many of these third-party sites cause problems for Ryanair 
customers, as they fail to pass on vital information on issues such as flight changes, web check-in, and special 
needs assistance and contact details. Another, possibly more mundane, reason may have something to do with the 
revenues generated by the ads displayed on the actual provider's website, Ryanair itself probably being an 
example.On a final note, it is perhaps worth observing how we are used to live in a world in which most people 
would be thrilled to be able to claim copyright or, at least, sui generis protection over their databases. Yet the 
decision in Ryanair shows that in some instances it is not that bad that this may not be the case, as at least one 
remains 
free 
to 
tailor 
the 
relevant 
contractual 
terms 
as 
they 
please. 
[1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2015/01/copyright-judgments-in-2015-whats-in.html 
[2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://curia.europa.eu/juris/document/document.jsf?text=docid=161388pageIndex=0doclang=ENmode=reqdir=occ=f
irstpart=1cid=331775 
[3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:31996L0009from=EN [4]:            http://www.euronet.nl/users/rvh/PR-
Aviation/PRabout.htm [5]:            http://www.ryanair.com/en/terms-of-use/ [6]:            
http://www.irishtimes.com/business/transport-and-tourism/ryanair-wins-legal-case-against-screenscraper-site-
1.2058869 
Load-Date: January 15, 2015
End of Document
German food discounters enjoy premium branding buzz
German food discounters enjoy premium branding buzz
City A.M.
January 14, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 476 words
Byline: STEPHAN SHAKESPEARE
Body
IN ANOTHER blow to traditional British grocers in the ongoing supermarket price war, budget food retailers Aldi and 
Lidl are the highest performing brands in YouGov's BrandIndex Buzz score rankings for 2014.
But there is still good news for some more of Britain's most loved retailers, such as John Lewis and Marks & 
Spencer.
The rankings are based on YouGov's BrandIndex Buzz scores which measure whether consumers have heard 
anything positive or negative about a brand in the last two weeks.
Aldi is first in the overall rankings with a score of 26.3, with Lidl closely behind on 20.3. Lidl also picks up the most 
improved award as it finds itself at the top of our Buzz Improvers list with a rise in its score compared to 2013 of 
11.6. Aldi has had similar success and shows a rise of 10 points.
While negative stories have often hit larger rivals over the year, the German retailers have been asserting through 
high-profile campaigns that they are the viable alternative offering both quality and low prices. Aldi was at fourth in 
the annual list for 2013, while Lidl was not even in the top 10, underlying the rate at which the retailers have been 
pervading public consciousness.
Elsewhere, fresh from another powerful Christmas campaign, John Lewis underlines its steadfast appeal in third 
place (on 18.3), surely a sign the Christmas penguins can stay on for another year.
BBC iPlayer - at first place this time last year - drops to fourth (18) but can be content that its popularity is constant, 
as is the same with www.bbc.co.uk in seventh (11.6).
German food discounters enjoy premium branding buzz
Innovative electronics manufacturer Dyson claimed fifth place in 2014. The desire for exclusive content has aided 
Netflix's entrance into the top ten in eighth (11.3). The presence of other traditional favourites such as John Lewis 
shows the importance of creating a notion of trust and a reputation for quality.
Waitrose (13.1 - 6th) and Marks & Spencer (11.3 - joint 8th) can be pleased with their performance, over the year, 
showing that they are at least making positive steps in their marketing and service efforts.
Of the other brands that have seen the greatest improvement over the year, budget airline Ryanair has achieved an 
increase of 10.6, though its overall score remains negative.
There is good news for traditional high street retailer HMV (up by 7.5) and the embittered energy firms SSE (up six 
points) and British Gas (up 5.8) - although the latter two brands' scores remain negative, meaning 2015 will likely be 
busy for those keen to make positive inroads into positive public opinion. Marketing bosses will see this as a 
justification of their efforts to begin to change public perception of their brands.
However, there is still a long way to go for those companies to achieve a positive overall score and a place in the 
nation's hearts.
Stephan Shakespeare is the chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: January 14, 2015
End of Document
IAG lifts on speculation of Irish buy IN BRIEF
IAG lifts on speculation of Irish buy; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
January 14, 2015 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 75 words
Body
? British Airways owner, IAG closed up 4.22 per cent yesterday, as investors speculated on another possible move 
to buy Irish carrier Aer Lingus. IAG, which also owns airlines Iberia and Vueling, last traded at 489.1p a share. The 
Irish carrier rejected a second £1.3bn cash offer from IAG last week. But Ryanair, which owns 29 per cent of Aer 
Lingus, said it expected IAG to put in another fresh offer and such an offer would not be a problem for it.
Load-Date: January 14, 2015
End of Document
IAG faces political hurdles in bid for Aer Lingus; Walsh will have to win over the Irish carrier's board and then 
Dublin if his takeover attempt is to get off t....
IAG faces political hurdles in bid for Aer Lingus; Walsh will have to win over 
the Irish carrier's board and then Dublin if his takeover attempt is to get off 
the ground
Financial Times (London, England)
January 13, 2015 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 642 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
Being Irish is no guarantee of success in bidding for the country's national airline. Ryanair's first offer for Aer Lingus 
in 2006 drew almost immediate opposition from the Dublin government, which objected to the merger of two Irish 
airlines. Ryanair's ambition has been knocked back by regulators for nearly a decade now.
That has not stopped Willie Walsh , the Dublin-born chief executive of International Airlines Group. The parent of 
British Airways and Spain's Iberia has made two takeover offers for Aer Lingus in the past three weeks. But the Irish 
government's response is more low key. It is "a matter for the board [of Aer Lingus] in the first instance", the 
transport ministry said after the first approach, noting that directors had rejected the IAG offer as one that 
"fundamentally undervalues" Ireland's flag-carrier airline.
The first task for Mr Walsh, a former boss of Aer Lingus, is to convince his target's board to back a firm offer. He 
has failed to do this twice now.
People familiar with the situation said yesterday they expected IAG to return with a higher offer this week. Assuming 
Mr Walsh unveils a knockout bid that directors of Aer Lingus can recommend to their shareholders, his next big 
challenge will be getting the Irish government on board.
IAG faces political hurdles in bid for Aer Lingus; Walsh will have to win over the Irish carrier's board and then 
Dublin if his takeover attempt is to get off t....
"Aer Lingus has been connected to the migration flows in and out of Ireland for decades," says one Irish adviser 
working on the deal. "The government will want to see that . . . Aer Lingus is protected and grown."
The government is under no pressure to sell its 25 per cent stake in Aer Lingus. While Ireland is a heavily indebted 
country after its financial crash and EUR67bn bailout by international institutions, the value of the Aer Lingus stake - 
about EUR320m - is relatively small change in that context. That reduces the importance of price as a factor in the 
government's calculations.
Aer Lingus is doing relatively well as an independent carrier. It is expanding rapidly into the US. Dublin airport is 
Europe's seventh-largest transatlantic hub, according to Davy Stockbrokers, its traffic boosted by the availability of 
US customs pre-clearance. Aer Lingus has reached agreement with unions on its large pension deficit, and it had 
net cash of EUR570m in the third quarter, raising shareholder hopes of a special dividend within the next 18 
months.
Still, some observers say, the airline's newfound stability is precarious. The question is whether, under outgoing 
chief executive Christoph Mueller, it has put behind it a long history of union troubles, lossmaking routes and 
volatile financial performance. These observers - who do not wish to be identified because the Aer Lingus takeover 
story is so sensitive in Dublin - argue that long haul, in particular, is "very cyclical". State-controlled Gulf carriers are 
putting sustained pressure on European airlines' long-haul routes.
Moreover, Ryanair, run by Michael O'Leary , is a formidable competitor on short-haul routes. Ryanair retains a 29 
per cent stake in Aer Lingus.
These may be arguments for why Aer Lingus deserves a good home inside a wider airline group. But there is 
another factor at play - politics. Ireland is little more than a year away from a general election.
For the Irish government, the two biggest assets Aer Lingus has are its 23 take-off and landing slots at London's 
Heathrow airport and long-haul routes to New York, Washington and San Francisco.
The European Commission is likely to scrutinise the competition implications of any IAG bid for Aer Lingus and 
could potentially require the divestment of some Heathrow slots to rivals.
Dublin will almost certainly want guarantees from IAG that Ireland's air links will be preserved and enhanced in any 
deal, and that the Aer Lingus brand will be retained. But until Mr Walsh wins over the Aer Lingus board, the 
government can afford to bide its time.
Load-Date: January 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair see new AIG Aer Lingus bid Aer Lingus Bid
Ryanair see new AIG Aer Lingus bid; Aer Lingus Bid
Business World (Digest)
January 13, 2015 Tuesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 80 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus's largest shareholder Ryanair today said it expects International Airlines Group to make a 
new bid for Aer Lingus within days.
Body
Aer Lingus's largest shareholder Ryanair today said it expects International Airlines Group to make a new bid for 
Aer Lingus within days.
Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs told journalists in Dublin that it expects a bid this week, adding that 
Ryanair has no particular concerns about British Airways owner IAG taking over Aer Lingus.
Jacobs said that Ryanair has not been approached directly by IAG about its 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus.
For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 15, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus rejects approach from BA; Airlines
Aer Lingus rejects approach from BA; Airlines
Business World (Digest)
January 12, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 308 words
Highlight: The owner of British Airways said on Friday that Aer Lingus had rejected a revised takeover approach 
that valued the Irish airline at 2.40 euros per share.
Body
The owner of British Airways said on Friday that Aer Lingus had rejected a revised takeover approach that valued 
the Irish airline at 2.40 euros per share.
International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG), which also owns Spanish carrier Iberia, said it had lifted its cash 
offer from an earlier 2.30 euros.
"There can be no certainty that any further proposal or offer will be forthcoming," the IAG statement said.
But investors seemed to expect IAG to go further, with the stock price ending up 10 percent at 2.50 euros. A 
spokesman for Aer Lingus said it did not plan to comment on the IAG staement. Aer Lingus in December rejected a 
takeover approach from its larger rival, a competitor for flights between Dublin and London, one of the world's 
busiest international routes. It said the offer undervalued the business. Buying Aer Lingus would give British 
Airways more take-off and landing slots at Heathrow, its home base and a top European hub for profitable long-haul 
routes. The airport is operating at close to capacity, preventing BA from adding more flights. IAG's Irish chief 
executive, Willie Walsh, knows Aer Lingus well. He started his career as a pilot there and was the former national 
carrier's chief executive between 2001 and 2005. Walsh spent most of Friday afternoon in a private room at 
Dublin's Convention Centre, where he was speaking at a "self-empowerment summit." In a speech sprinkled with 
jibes at rival Ryanair, he championed airline consolidation and IAG's multiple-brand strategy, but declined to 
comment on the Aer Lingus bid when approached by journalists. Any acquisition of Aer Lingus would need the 
backing of budget airline Ryanair, which holds a 29.9 percent stake in Aer Lingus after three failed takeover 
attempts, and the Irish government, which owns 25 percent. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 14, 2015
Aer Lingus rejects approach from BA; Airlines
End of Document
Dub Airport passenger numbers up 8pc Dub Airport PAX
Dub Airport passenger numbers up 8pc; Dub Airport PAX
Business World (Digest)
January 12, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 534 words
Highlight: Passenger numbers at Dublin Airport increased by 8pc last year to 21.7 million, its operators said today.
Body
Passenger numbers at Dublin Airport increased by 8pc last year to 21.7 million, its operators said today.
The airport saw growth across all major sectors of its business during 2014 and the Dublin Airport Authority said 
that it expects this to continue into this year, with 14 new services due to begin in 2015.
Long-haul traffic recorded a strong performance last year, as the number of passengers taking flights to North 
America and the Middle East increased by 14pc. Short-haul traffic increased by 7pc.
"Dublin Airport had a very strong year of passenger growth in 2014, adding more than 1.5 million extra passengers 
and outperforming the average airport growth rates across the European Union," said Dublin Airport Managing 
Director, Vincent Harrison. "The growth was due to a combination of 24 new routes last year and additional flights 
on 34 existing services," Mr Harrison added. Airlines such as Ryanair, Aer Lingus, Flybe, British Airways, and 
WestJet all added new services from Dublin Airport last year and 11 carriers increased capacity on their existing 
services. In volume terms, the British market delivered the largest growth last year, as an extra 600,000 people took 
flights between Dublin and British destinations in 2014. About 570,000 additional passengers took flights between 
Dublin Airport and continental European destinations last year. Transatlantic traffic increased by 14pc, as more than 
2.1 million people travelled on flights between Dublin and North America during 2014. "Dublin Airport's transatlantic 
business set an all-time record last year, as this was the first time that more than 2 million people took transatlantic 
flights to and from Dublin Airport in a single year," Mr Harrison said. Last year's transatlantic business was boosted 
by new services to Toronto, San Francisco and St John's Newfoundland. Transfer traffic also set a new record last 
year, with almost 750,000 passengers using Dublin Airport as a hub in 2014, which was a 37pc increase on the 
previous year. "Dublin Airport has established itself as a player in the transatlantic transfer market over the past 
couple of years and we see significant potential for further expansion this area," according to Mr Harrison. "This 
summer, Dublin Airport will have 158 departures per week to North America, making it Europe's sixth largest airport 
for transatlantic connectivity." Passenger traffic to and from continental Europe, which is the biggest market 
Dub Airport passenger numbers up 8pc Dub Airport PAX
segment at Dublin Airport, increased by 5pc last year to 11.1 million with new routes and extra capacity on existing 
services. Almost 7.8 million people travelled between Dublin and Britain by air in 2014, which was an 8pc increase 
on the previous year. Transatlantic passenger numbers increased by 14pc to a record 2.1 million, while passenger 
traffic to other international destinations - mainly the Middle East and North Africa - increased by 19pc to a record 
643,000. Domestic passenger numbers increased by 7pc to 72,000 last year. Dublin Airport already has 14 new 
services in place for 2015 and will welcome new airlines such as Ethiopian, Vueling, WOW Air, and Transavia to 
Dublin over the coming months. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 14, 2015
End of Document
IAG escalates takeover play for Aer Lingus
IAG escalates takeover play for Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
January 11, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 433 words
Body
British Airways owner IAG has retained Dublin stockbrokers Goodbody as its advisers as the airline seeks to 
escalate its takeover play for Aer Lingus, according to stock exchange filings.
The appointment has been interpreted by the markets as a sign that a third bid is imminent, which boosted Aer 
Lingus's share price in trading last Friday.
The appointment of Goodbody also introduces to the bidding process the firm's director of corporate broking, Joe 
Gill.
Gill is close to Michael O'Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, which holds 29.8 per cent of Aer Lingus.
IAG, headed by Irishman Willie Walsh, will be keen to bring Ryanair onside.
Last Friday, shares were trading at a high of EUR 2.50, at which price the market capitalisation of Aer Lingus would 
have been more than EUR 1.3 billion.
That puts a value of nearly EUR 350 million on the government's holding in the company. The Sunday Business 
Post understands that the government is likely to be in favour of any deal that values its shareholding at greater 
than EUR 300 million. At such a price, Ryanair's chunk would be worth roughly EUR 400 million.
**Value**
Aer Lingus rejected two earlier offers from IAG in December of last year, saying that the bid - which IAG confirmed 
had reached EUR 2.40 a share by December 29,2014 - fundamentally undervalued Aer Lingus.
According to Damian Brewer, an airlines analyst with RBC Capital Markets, Walsh's IAG currently holds the upper 
hand in any deal.
IAG escalates takeover play for Aer Lingus
   Aer Lingus is probably a nice-to-have, but not a have-to-have,   Brewer said.    One would raise the question of 
who the other potential buyers would be.   IAG might conclude that it has little competition for Aer Lingus and can 
afford to take its time.
In a note to clients, HSBC's Andrew Lobbenburg agreed with that sentiment:    Aer Lingus [is] a useful potential 
addition.  
However, he did warn that IAG had significant capital expenditure issues on the horizon, with a fleet of ageing 
aircraft.
A further complication in the deal is that IAG may not necessarily be the best outcome for Ryanair, Brewer said, 
since that would make BA an even greater rival to Ryanair domestically.
   I suspect that if you're Ryanair, what you really want is an Etihad or an Alitalia [to make an offer for Aer Lingus] for 
its long-haul routes,   Brewer said. Aer Lingus might then retrench from its short-haul business in Europe.
Nevertheless, both analysts see value for all sides in an agreed deal.
.....
**The numbers**
**EUR 1.30:**share price on January 1, 2014
**EUR 2.29:**share price on January 1, 2015
**EUR 300m:**minimum price government wants for its holding
Load-Date: January 12, 2015
End of Document
Fair exchange?
Fair exchange?
Sunday Business Post
January 11, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1001 words
Body
Last year was the year of the exchange traded fund. Around the world in 2014, cash was piled into the so-called 
ETF, which allow investors to track thousands of stocks at a fraction of the usual cost, with reduced levels of risk.
According to BlackRock, one of the largest operators of ETFs and the world's largest fund management company, 
$330.6 billion flowed into exchange traded products around the world last year. Over half of this was linked to ETFs 
tracking US equities. Inflows for European products totalled $61.4 billion.
Many of the world's largest ETFs are based in Ireland. The IFSC is home to funds run by BlackRock, State Street, 
Vanguard and many more global heavyweights.
However, despite our close proximity to the global ETF industry, Irish investors are being frozen out of this 
particular market.
Experts say indifference from the Revenue Commissioners, as well as a community of wealth managers that are 
more interested in protecting their fee base than cluing their clients in, are curtailing access to the funds. But why is 
this? And is it likely to change?
**What is an ETF?**
Andy O'Callaghan is a partner with PwC. From his office in Dublin's docklands, he helps many of the world's largest 
fund managers to structure their ETFs. He is convinced that, as an investment, they're hard to beat.
   The growth in ETFs has been phenomenal. They're low-cost, they're very efficient, and it's all based on scale. 
Why do these work? They work because a manager can buy quantities of shares in each company, and the total 
expense ratio of an ETF tends to be lower than a non-ETF,   he said.    They are complex in that they're a fund, a 
pool of investment assets, but then they are wrapped as a share on a stock exchange. The same way you would 
buy shares in Ryanair, you buy shares in the ETF.  
Fair exchange?
Put simply, they make diversification, the holy grail of investment, a bargain. They track the performance of a set of 
stocks, say the FTSE100, and pay out the return generated by the index.
They're    passive funds  , as opposed to those controlled by a manager trying to beat the market - and they've been 
outperforming many of their human-controlled counterparts in recent years.
Many Irish wealth advisors are also excited by the emergence of the ETF boom.
   The attractions are that you can invest in a particular market, such as US equities, or more complicated ones, at a 
very low cost. Warren Buffett has said that most people are better off investing in ETFs, rather than trying to beat 
the market by picking shares directly,   said personal finance advisor Brendan Burgess.
Marc Westlake, a chartered financial planner with Goldcore, is unequivocal about the benefits of ETF.
   If you've got money to invest, and every book you've ever read on investing says that a monkey with a dart will do 
as well as the best investment manager, what you want to do is buy indexed funds. And then there are these new 
things that come along called ETFs - well, fantastic, let's go and do that,   he said.
So what's the problem?
**Ireland falls behind**
While the rest of the world is ploughing money into the ETFs and enjoying the benefits, Irish investment managers 
are currently struggling to get a straight answer from the Revenue Commissioners on just how the proceeds will be 
taxed.
Specifically, there is no clarity over whether gains from ETFs outside the European Union - of which there are 
hundreds - will be eligible for the 41 per cent exit tax usually levelled on funds, or whether the lower 33 per cent 
capital gains tax will apply, as is the case with normal gains from share disposals.
Westlake, who relocated from Britain to Ireland several years ago, was gobsmacked when he saw how arcane the 
tax authorities here are when it comes to dealing with investments.
   I was staggered at how inconsistent and complicated Ireland is from an investment point of view, once you step 
outside pensions. In the Irish situation, something as simple as an ETF becomes probably the most complicated 
thing I've ever dealt with in 23 years,   he said.
Burgess agrees:    All I can tell you is that the [taxation] is so extremely complicated that I wouldn't touch them.
   They have been unable to conclude how they have been taxed. That, to me, is a very serious issue.  
Sources in the investment community said that efforts by some of the larger fund managers based in Ireland to 
convince the Revenue Commissioners to provide clarity on the issue had proved fruitless so far.
If the tax authorities were to provide more guidance on how proceeds were treated, said Westlake, a whole new 
and exciting investment opportunity would be opened for Irish people.
   We looked for clarity on this from the Revenue. The most concrete thing we got back from them was: 'You could 
look at it that way if you wanted to'. You couldn't get less committal if you tried.  
A Revenue spokesperson said ETFs were a    complex and specialist area  .
   The Revenue has no wish to be opaque in any respect in setting out the specifics of the law in this matter and we 
regret that any potential investor in ETFs may have had an unsatisfactory experience in seeking to clarify the 
relevant tax treatment,   she said.
Summary guidance on the treatment of ETFs is being prepared and will be shortly published, she added.
Fair exchange?
The other major issue at play, according to Westlake, is commission - specifically the commission paid to financial 
advisers by their clients. The problem, he said, was that ETFs generated no fees for intermediaries.
   You can walk the length and breadth of this country, and ask people if they have money invested with Vanguard 
or Dimensional Advisors or iShares or DBX Trackers,   he said.
   They manage many trillions of dollars of low-cost, mutual funds, they're domiciled in Dublin, they're run out of the 
Irish Stock Exchange, they're listed in Ireland as PLCs, and you've never heard of them. Why? None of those 
products pays commission to intermediaries. They're not going to come up on the radar, let's be honest.  
Load-Date: January 12, 2015
End of Document
Cyprus Airways Closed Down After EU State Aid Ruling
Cyprus Airways Closed Down After EU State Aid Ruling
International Business Times News
January 10, 2015 Saturday 8:09 AM EST
Copyright 2015 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 504 words
Body
Jan 10, 2015 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 (Reuters) - Cyprus has suspended operations at its flag carrier after the European Commission ordered the 
struggling airline to pay back over 65 million euros (51 million pounds) in illegal state aid.
 The last Cyprus Airways flight will take place Friday night, government officials said.
 EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said Cyprus Airways had no chance of becoming viable 
without continued state subsidies, meaning money paid out in 2012 and 2013 as part of a restructuring package 
would have to be recovered. The restructuring plan was "based on unrealistic assumptions" the EU Commission 
said.
 Under EU rules a company can only receive state assistance once every 10 years, and the airline had already 
been bailed out in 2007.
 "The company has ceased being a viable entity ... and cannot continue to operate," Finance Minister Harris 
Georgiades told reporters. He said the state would fully cover the cost of alternative flights for passengers who had 
already booked with the airline.
 Cyprus Airways, 93 percent owned by the state and which employs 550 people, has a 10 percent share of flights to 
the island, down from 30 percent two years ago.
 Ryanair, which announced dozens of new routes within hours of the collapse of Hungary's Malev in 2012, said in a 
statement that it was temporarily cutting prices to the Mediterranean island to help stranded passengers.
 However, Ryanair has relatively little spare capacity due to expansion planned for the summer. Quickly covering 
the flights would also be complicated by the fact that about a third of Cyprus Airways' destinations are outside of the 
European Union and its routes are longer than Ryanair's average.
 The demise of the carrier is another blow to Cyprus, which was subjected to harsh bailout conditions in 2013 when 
it was yanked from the brink of bankruptcy[1] by the IMF and the EU.
 A small number of demonstrators gathered outside Cyprus Airways' Nicosia offices on Friday evening, but the 
reaction from staff was muted.
 "It's pretty clear from the decision that the government didn't put a viable restructuring plan in place. Our union 
clearly says that was deliberate; you can turn any company around," said Petros Souppouris, head of the carrier's 
pilots union.
 Georgiades said authorities were looking into the possibility of re-creating an airline maintaining the Cyprus 
Airways trade name and logo.
Cyprus Airways Closed Down After EU State Aid Ruling
 Once a suitor to acquire then troubled Greek carrier Olympic, Cyprus Airways has seen cheaper carriers muscle in 
on its more lucrative routes, particularly to Greece[2] and the United Kingdom. It has been making losses for years, 
and attempts to sell it fell through last year.
 Both Ryanair and Greece's Aegean Airlines, which have taken market share away from Cyprus Airways, have 
submitted applications to Cypriot authorities to create subsidiaries on the island.
 [1]: http://bit.ly/1stY7aM [2]:            http://uk.reuters.com/places/greece 
Load-Date: January 10, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus spurns second IAG offer valuing carrier at EUR1.3bn Travel & leisure
Aer Lingus spurns second IAG offer valuing carrier at EUR1.3bn; Travel & 
leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
January 10, 2015 Saturday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2015 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 13
Length: 351 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger and Arash Massoudi
Body
Aer Lingus has for the second time in a month rebuffed its former chief executive, Willie Walsh, after rejecting an 
increased cash bid of EUR2.40 a share from International Airlines Group.
The parent company of British Airways and Spain's Iberia, where Mr Walsh is chief executive, revealed the rejection 
yesterday as it sought to quell mounting speculation that it had tabled an offer of EUR2.85 or more. The rumours 
helped to drive Aer Lingus's shares up by 10 per cent, according to brokers. The shares finished at EUR2.50.
Responding to the speculation, IAG said that it had "submitted a revised proposal . . . which has been rejected". 
The new offer of EUR2.40 a share, against the original EUR2.30, was made on December 29. The airline group 
added: "There can be no certainty that any further proposal or offer will be forthcoming."
People close to the situation said IAG was now expected to gauge the mood of investors after clarification of its two 
offers. At EUR2.40 the offer would value Ireland's flag carrier at close to EUR1.3bn.
IAG has cast the deal as an opportunity for Aer Lingus to join forces with the operator of BA and Iberia at a time 
when many flagship European airlines have struggled to compete with low-cost carriers and government-subsidised 
operators from the Middle East.
Aer Lingus spurns second IAG offer valuing carrier at EUR1.3bn Travel & leisure
It has tried to assure Aer Lingus that a combination would bring greater connectivity to Dublin, and bring the Irish 
airline into the BA-led Oneworld alliance for global air miles.
However, people close to Aer Lingus suggested the higher offer still significantly undervalued the carrier, given that 
it is profitable, owns valuable takeoff and landing slots at Heathrow and has cash on its balance sheet. There is also 
political sensitivity about a possible takeover of ahead of elections next year.
Rival Ryanair, which holds a 29.9 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, would also have to be persuaded by the deal. The 
low-cost carrier led by Michael O'Leary is looking to sell its stake. However, it could demand certain of its rival's 
assets as partial payment for its stake, said one person close to the situation.
Load-Date: January 9, 2015
End of Document
Cyprus ' national airline to shut after breaking EU rules
Cyprus' national airline to shut after breaking EU rules
Associated Press Financial Wire
January 9, 2015 Friday 9:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2015 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 383 words
Byline: By MENELAOS HADJICOSTIS, Associated Press
Dateline: NICOSIA, Cyprus 
Body
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) - Cyprus' national airline lost its operating license and stopped all flights after the European 
Union ruled that it had illegally received tens of millions of euros in state aid, officials said Friday.
Finance Minister Harris Georgiades and Communications Minister Marios Demetriades said that an administrator 
will now be tasked with winding down Cyprus Airways. The country's air transport licensing authority said it revoked 
the airline's license because it could not ensure flight safety as a result of its financial troubles.
The European Commission ruled that money-losing Cyprus Airways, which is nearly 94 percent government-
owned, must pay back over 65 million euros ($76.78 million) out of a 103 million euro ($121.67 million) state aid 
package it received in 2012-13 that gave it an unfair advantage over competitors.
The ministers said the government will cover the estimated cost of 6-7 million euros of Cyprus Airways ticket 
holders who either wish to be reimbursed or make alternative travel arrangements.
Demetriades said some 70 airlines fly to Cyprus, which received a multibillion euro international rescue nearly two 
years ago, and that the demise of the national carrier - whose market share dwindled to a mere 10 percent - won't 
diminish the east Mediterranean island's air links abroad.
He said plans are under way to set up a new company with private backing that will bear the Cyprus Airways name 
and logo.
Several dozen airline staff milled outside the company's Nicosia offices awaiting word of what will happen to them 
as Georgiades said they will receive salaries and pension benefits that they're entitled to.
Georgiades said the airline's financial troubles were so severe that potential investors couldn't be wooed. Early 
investment feelers sent out by companies including Ireland's Ryanair and Greece's Aegean went nowhere.
The company, founded in 1947, struggled due to years of graft and mismanagement, and hemorrhaged money as it 
could no longer compete with new low-cost airlines that grabbed huge chunks of its business.
Cyprus ' national airline to shut after breaking EU rules
Authorities tried to salvage the bloated airline through several restructuring plans that halved staff to around 500 
people and shrunk the fleet to six planes. But the last straw came by way of the European Commission's ruling.
Load-Date: January 10, 2015
End of Document
Rumours of new IAG Aer Lingus bid Aer Lingus Bid
Rumours of new IAG Aer Lingus bid; Aer Lingus Bid
Business World (Digest)
January 9, 2015 Friday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 173 words
Highlight: Talk that International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) is poised to make a second bid approach for 
Aer Lingus sent the Irish airlines shares soaring today.
Body
Talk that International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) is poised to make a second bid approach for Aer Lingus 
sent the Irish airlines shares soaring today.
Just before noon today, shares in Aer Lingus had gained 3.25pc or 8c to E2.35.
The new rumours come after the Times reported that HSBC European equity research sector head of transport 
Andrew Lobbenberg "believes a deal makes sense and, while complicated, is achievable".
The report quotes a research note where he adds: "We see the logic of a combination between IAG and Aer 
Lingus." His comments come nearly three weeks after IAG is believed to have offered E1.15 billion, or  2.20 a 
share, for the airline in a takeover bid. Lobbenberg added any new approach would have to reassure the Irish 
government, which owns a quarter of the shares, over future employment and competition issues. Meanwhile, 
Ryanair, which owns 29pc of the shareholding, would also have concerns over its potential biggest competitor 
should an IAG Aer Lingus deal go through. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 13, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair claim court victory over eDreams Ryanair Case
Ryanair claim court victory over eDreams; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
January 8, 2015 Thursday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 264 words
Highlight: Ryanair today welcomed a Regional Court of Hamburg's (Landgericht Hamburg) judgment against the 
Spanish website, eDreams, ordering it to refrain from using the subdomain "Ryanair.eDreams.de".
Body
Ryanair today welcomed a Regional Court of Hamburg's (Landgericht Hamburg) judgment against the Spanish 
website, eDreams, ordering it to refrain from using the subdomain "Ryanair.eDreams.de".
The court also barred eDreams from using the same term as a sub-domain in Google Ads.
The court also directed eDreams to pay compensation for trademark infringement, and ruled that eDreams use of 
the subdomain "Ryanair.eDreams.de" wrongfully suggests to customers that eDreams itself is Ryanair, when there 
is no commercial relationship between the screenscraping website and Ryanair.
Ryanair has been engaged in several legal cases against screenscraper websites across Europe. "Many of these 
websites continue to cause problems for Ryanair customers and/or fail/refuse to pass on vital information to both 
passengers and Ryanair regarding issues such as flight changes, web check-in, special needs assistance and 
contact details, which has resulted in missed flights and repeated problems for customers," the Irish airline said. 
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair welcomes the judgment of the Regional Court of Hamburg which found that 
eDreams has been using an unlawful subdomain and was misleading customers into thinking that it had an official 
partnership with Ryanair. Ryanair will continue to pursue screenscraper websites such as eDreams to prevent 
Europe's consumers from being misled over price and booking conditions. We would again urge customers to book 
directly on the Ryanair.com website to guarantee the lowest fares and best customer service." For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 13, 2015
Ryanair claim court victory over eDreams Ryanair Case
End of Document
Passengers rise at EasyJet and Aer Lingus
Passengers rise at EasyJet and Aer Lingus
City A.M.
January 8, 2015 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 192 words
Byline: KATE McCANN
Body
IRISH airline Aer Lingus and budget carrier EasyJet both saw passenger numbers rise by 3.2 per cent last year, in 
what was a generally good year for the firms.
Aer Lingus saw the number of people using its services increase to 11.1m in 2014.
Its load factor, the number of seats filled on each flight, also rose by six points to 79 per cent for the year, reflecting 
growth in the business, especially in the longhaul sector.
It was a similar story at EasyJet, which flew 65.3m people on its planes last year, a 6.5 per cent improvement on 
2013.
In December alone the group saw passenger numbers rise by 3.2 per cent to 4.6m.
The load factor also increased at EasyJet, which has been focusing its marketing efforts on young professionals 
who take a number of European trips each year. More than 90 per cent of all EasyJet flights are now full, an 
increase of 1.5 per cent compared with the previous year.
Ryanair, the largest low-cost carrier in Europe, also had a good year, with passenger numbers increasing six per 
cent to 86.4m over the year. The group's load factor rose from 81 per cent in 2013 to 88 per cent last year, it said in 
a statement yesterday.
Load-Date: January 8, 2015
Passengers rise at EasyJet and Aer Lingus
End of Document
Carol Anne O'Neill for Ryanair sales job; Ryanair Sales
Carol Anne O'Neill for Ryanair sales job; Ryanair Sales
Business World (Digest)
January 7, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 209 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced the appointment of Carol Anne O'Neill as its new Head of Sales and 
Marketing.
Body
Ryanair today announced the appointment of Carol Anne O'Neill as its new Head of Sales and Marketing.
She joins the airline later this month from Falcon/Thomson, where she is Head of Ireland.
Ms O'Neill brings with her 28 years of experience in the travel industry, having previously worked for XL Airways 
and Wings Abroad, and will oversee Ryanair's sales and marketing team and activities across 30 countries in 
Europe and North Africa.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "We are pleased to appoint Carol Anne O'Neill as our new 
Head of Sales and Marketing. Her extensive experience and knowledge will be a key asset to Ryanair, as we 
continue to roll out our 'Always Getting Better' customer experience improvement programme, and grow traffic, 
routes and tourism across Europe, with more than 90m people set to fly Ryanair this year." Carol Anne O'Neill said: 
"I am delighted to be appointed Head of Sales and Marketing for Ryanair, Europe's largest airline. These are 
exciting times for Ryanair with plans for extensive passenger growth, digital enhancements and continued customer 
service experience improvements and I'm looking forward to joining the Ryanair team and the challenges that lie 
ahead." For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair targets 20pc of German market Ryanair Germany
Ryanair targets 20pc of German market; Ryanair Germany
Business World (Digest)
January 7, 2015 Wednesday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 182 words
Highlight: Ryanair wants to take on Lufthansa in Germany, its chief executive said in a newspaper interview today 
and predicted the German airline would fail in its bid to build a low cost business.
Body
Ryanair wants to take on Lufthansa in Germany, its chief executive said in a newspaper interview today and 
predicted the German airline would fail in its bid to build a low cost business.
"We currently have market share of around 4.0 per cent in Germany. In the next three to four years, we're aiming to 
increase it to 15-20 percent," Michael O'Leary told the business daily Handelsblatt.
He dismissed Lufthansa's plans to expand its own budget flight operations. "There's a long history of expensive 
airlines trying to find a foothold in the low-cost segment. The jets are just repainted and the in-flight meals are 
cancelled. But that doesn't make them a low-cost airline," he said.
Ryanair, which traditionally serves smaller, cheap out-of-the-way airports, is planning to expand to Germany's major 
airports to attract higher-paying business passengers, who are Lufthansa's core customers, O'Leary said. "We've 
just started in Cologne and in the winter, we'll start flights to Hamburg and expanding our services to Berlin. More 
airports will follow," he said. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 12, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair December passenger traffic increases 20%
Ryanair December passenger traffic increases 20%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 7, 2015 Wednesday 2:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2015 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 122 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of December 2014 was 6.02 million 
passengers, an increase of 20%, compared to 5.02 million passengers for December 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of December 2014 was 88%, an increase of seven percentage points, compared to 81% 
for December 2013. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's traffic grew by 20% to over 
6m customers in December, while our load factor rose by 7% points to 88%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger 
forward booking strategy and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer programme, which is 
delivering better than expected load factors in our significantly expanded winter schedule. "With our new routes, 
increased frequencies, improving customer experience and Business Plus service, Ryanair continues to deliver so 
much more than the lowest fares in every market we operate in."
Load-Date: January 13, 2015
End of Document
OIL SINKS BELOW $50 Boost for motorists and airlines as petrol costs tumble... yet the speed of black gold's 
collapse spooks global markets
OIL SINKS BELOW $50; Boost for motorists and airlines as petrol costs 
tumble... yet the speed of black gold's collapse spooks global markets
City A.M.
January 6, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 411 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON
Body
THE PRICE of oil slid further yesterday, providing a boon to motorists and fueldependent industries, yet contributing 
to market turbulence throughout the world.
American crude crashed below $50 a barrel during trading, while benchmark Brent tumbled under $53. Late last 
night US WTI had recovered to around $50.04, having printed $49.77 earlier on. Brent crude recorded a price of 
$52.66 during the day - its lowest level since May 2009.
The drops were partly prompted by data which showed Russian oil output at post-Soviet era highs and Iraqi oil 
exports near 35-year www.peaks.UK supermarkets have been thrown into a race to the bottom as the downward 
trajectory of worldwide oil prices continues. British motorists are feeling the benefits of the falling prices, with 
several supermarkets moving to cut petrol prices at their service stations.
From today, Sainsbury's will be reducing the price of both unleaded petrol and diesel by 2p per litre across its 298 
forecourts - the seventh time the company has dropped fuel prices in the last six weeks. Morrison's has also 
announced a 2p per litre cut from today onwards.
Meanwhile, Asda has dropped its national price cap to 105.7 per litre on unleaded and 112.7 on diesel. This is the 
second cut the Walmart-owned supermarket has made already this year - it slashed 2p off its national price caps for 
fuel on New Years Day.
However, the RAC's Simon Williams believes more could be done to save consumers' money. "With a barrel of 
brent crude oil now at around $55 [or below] helping to reduce wholesale prices, we think there is still more room to 
OIL SINKS BELOW $50 Boost for motorists and airlines as petrol costs tumble... yet the speed of black gold's 
collapse spooks global markets
cut further, perhaps by as much as 5p to 6p by the end of January," he said. Williams added that the RAC expects 
other retailers to follow Asda's example, bringing a £1 per litre average for petrol closer to reality.
Airlines are also benefiting from the slide in oil prices - Ryanair shares reached an all time high yesterday, and 
British Airways owner IAG was up by 1.34 per cent, as were numerous manufacturing companies using oilbased 
materials.
Yet the FTSE, Dow Jones and Nasdaq were among many global markets taking a hit yesterday. While renewed 
political fears over Greece contributed to the chaos, oil prices are taking their toll. A number of major oil firms were 
down yesterday, including BP, Royal Dutch Shell, ExxonMobil and Chevron.
And HydroCarbon Capital analyst Malcolm Graham-Wood warned: "There is no sign that the fall is going to be 
arrested any time soon."
Load-Date: January 6, 2015
End of Document
Rising customer numbers boost Ryanair shares
Rising customer numbers boost Ryanair shares
City A.M.
January 6, 2015 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2015 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 154 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair saw its shares hit an all-time high yesterday as it announced it had increased customer 
numbers to more than six million in December, up 20 per cent compared with the same month in 2013.
The firm's load factor, a measure of how much of an airline's passenger carrying capacity is used, also grew, 
jumping seven per cent to 88 per cent.
Shares in the Irish firm went up by 3.27 per cent to (EURO)10.12, before closing at (EURO)9.91. Kenny Jacobs, 
Ryanair's chief marketing officer, said the growth in numbers was due to the company's lower fares and its 
"stronger forward booking strategy". He added that the firm's Always Getting Better customer programme was 
showing "better than expected" results.
He added: "With our new routes, increased frequencies, improving customer experience and Business Plus service, 
Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than the lowest fares in every market we operate in."
Load-Date: January 6, 2015
End of Document
Key European shares tumble; Shares Fall
Key European shares tumble; Shares Fall
Business World (Digest)
January 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 348 words
Highlight: European equities slipped to a two-week low in choppy trading today, with concerns over Greece's 
future in the euro zone and a sharp drop in prices of crude oil and copper hurting financial and commodities stocks 
the most.
Body
European equities slipped to a two-week low in choppy trading today, with concerns over Greece's future in the 
euro zone and a sharp drop in prices of crude oil and copper hurting financial and commodities stocks the most.
The euro zone's blue-chip Euro STOXX 50 fell 3.1 percent, the biggest one-day percentage drop since October, 
while the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index fell 1.9 percent to 1,336.94 points by 1535 GMT. Benchmark 
indexes in London, Frankfurt and Paris were down 1.5 to 2.6 percent.
Energy and mining stocks were the worst hit. The European oil and gas and basic resources indexes fell 3.8 
percent and 3.1 percent respectively after a supply glut sent oil prices to a 5-1/2-year low and copper hit a 4-1/2-
year trough due to a stronger dollar.
Political uncertainty in Greece rattled markets before elections later this month. The Athens ATG index fell 5.6 
percent, with lenders National Bank, Bank of Piraeus and Alpha Bank down 5.2 to 7.4 percent. "The logical thing to 
do right now is to avoid Greece. A lot of people are getting out of Greek assets thinking that probably it would be too 
late after the elections. Banking stocks are likely to bear the brunt of the sell-off," Ronny Claeys, senior strategist at 
KBC Asset Management, said. "There is an increased risk that Greek stocks could slide even further." The Jan. 25 
election in Greece could vault the left-wing Syriza party into power, raising the risk of a sovereign default. Although 
most sectors in Europe were in negative territory following a broader market sell-off, expectations of cheaper oil and 
a weaker euro helped travel and leisure, down 0.3 percent, to outperform. Carnival, IAG and Air France-KLM rose 
1.7 to 2.1 percent, while Ryanair shares, up 1.5 percent, hit an all-time high after the company said December 
traffic grew 20 percent. Danish television and sound system manufacturer Bang and Olufsen rose 4 percent after 
saying it would be prepared to look at any takeover approaches it received after lowering its profit guidance last 
month. (Reuters) For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Key European shares tumble; Shares Fall
Load-Date: January 8, 2015
End of Document
Greek jitters weigh on European shares EU Markets
Greek jitters weigh on European shares; EU Markets
Business World (Digest)
January 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 338 words
Highlight: Worries over Greece's future in the euro zone kept shares under pressure on Monday, even as fresh 
multi-year lows for the euro and crude oil gave a boost to travel and consumer-goods stocks.
Body
Worries over Greece's future in the euro zone kept shares under pressure on Monday, even as fresh multi-year 
lows for the euro and crude oil gave a boost to travel and consumer-goods stocks.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index was down 0.1 percent at 0909 GMT, with benchmark indexes in London 
and Frankfurt also in negative territory. The Paris CAC 40 stayed flat.
Political uncertainty in Greece was firmly in the spotlight ahead of elections later this month, as German Vice-
Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel said the German government wanted Greece to stay in the euro zone.
The Athens ATG index fell 2 percent, with lenders Bank of Piraeus and Alpha Bank down 3.1 to 3.6 percent. The 
Jan. 25 election in Greece could vault the left-wing Syriza party into power, raising the risk of a sovereign default 
and severe losses for the European Central Bank on any Greek bonds it holds. "I still think that the Greek exit 
scenario is an outlier," said Michael Hewson, analyst at CMC Markets. "Any sensible strategy would be to plan for 
the worst and hope for the best." Asian shares were also subdued as soft manufacturing surveys soured the mood. 
The euro hit a nine-year low versus the dollar, with investors stepping up bets the European Central Bank would 
unveil long-awaited extra stimulus measures in a bid to boost the economy and quash fears of a deflationary spiral. 
The travel and leisure sector in Europe was up 1 percent, lifted by the prospect of cheaper oil and a weaker euro 
feeding improving companies' and consumers' finances. Airline Ryanair rose 3 percent, hitting an all-time high after 
the company said December traffic grew 20 percent. Italian eyewear company Luxottica rose 2.7 percent, also 
hitting an all-time high, after it was cited by La Stampa as saying it would benefit from a weaker euro/dollar 
exchange rate in its fourth-quarter results. The battered energy sector, meanwhile, took a hit from oil's slide, with 
the STOXX Europe oil and gas index down 1.5 percent. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Greek jitters weigh on European shares EU Markets
Load-Date: January 7, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus Regional quit Shannon Stobart Shannon
Aer Lingus Regional quit Shannon; Stobart Shannon
Business World (Digest)
January 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 281 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus Regional, operated by Stobart Air, today said it will end its operation at Shannon Airport.
Body
Aer Lingus Regional, operated by Stobart Air, today said it will end its operation at Shannon Airport.
The franchise flying partner to Aer Lingus confirmed the move in November and said the decision was 'regrettable' 
and followed a review of its services at Shannon.
The airline had operated a total of 20 weekly flights to Birmingham, Bristol and Edinburgh which saw a 43pc rise in 
September alone compared to the same month in 2013. The company has not however released figures for 
Shannon in subsequent passenger number reports.
In October, Stobart axed its Shannon to Manchester service a day after Ryanair commenced operations on the 
same route. In November, several weeks after telling workers at Shannon of its intention to close the base there, 
the airline finally confirmed it's plans for Shannon. Senator Tony Mulcahy says he is confident management at 
Shannon Airport will secure a replacement carrier to service routes previously operated by Stobart Air, which today 
closed its operations at the Clare airport. "In my opinion, the main reason we have lost these services is not 
because of falling passenger numbers or of poor take-up, but instead due to the PSO Levy being provided at other 
Irish Airports such as Kerry and Donegal," stated Senator Mulcahy. "This incentivises airlines to locate or relocate 
their operations and therefore, puts Shannon at a distinct disadvantage in terms of attracting new operators into the 
facility. This is unlikely to change so commercial airlines must now look upon the existing strong passenger growth 
potential that exists at Shannon rather than looking at being incentivised to invest in the facility." For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 6, 2015
Aer Lingus Regional quit Shannon Stobart Shannon
End of Document
Ryanair shares soar to record high Ryanair Shares
Ryanair shares soar to record high; Ryanair Shares
Business World (Digest)
January 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 376 words
Highlight: Ryanair shares rose to an all-time high today after passenger numbers surged for a second successive 
month and the budget airline's expanding fleet had fewer empty seats than a year ago.
Body
Ryanair shares rose to an all-time high today after passenger numbers surged for a second successive month and 
the budget airline's expanding fleet had fewer empty seats than a year ago.
Just over six million people flew with Europe's largest low-cost carrier in December, a year-on-year rise of 20 
percent that Ryanair attributed to lower fares, a drive to sell more tickets earlier and improvements to its much 
maligned customer service.
Ryanair's strategy of being nicer to customers has had a bigger impact on its performance than lower oil prices 
which have benefited some airlines in the short term.
The traffic growth followed a 22 percent jump in passenger numbers in November that prompted Ryanair to raise its 
profit forecast for the second time in a month, bucking the trend among big European airlines such as Lufthansa 
and Air France-KLM. Shares in Ryanair were up 2.4 percent at 10.1 euros by 1145 GMT, and up over 50 percent in 
the past 12 months. Davy Stockbrokers, which described the numbers as a "stellar performance", said it expects 
the load factor growth to continue and increase passenger numbers to just over 90 million for the full-year to the 
end of March. Ryanair hedges its jet fuel purchases further in advance than most, meaning it is locked into higher 
oil prices but argues that stability is more important to it than the marginal savings it might make on fuel costs. It 
said last month that it had taken advantage of the recent dips to extend its fuel hedges out to the first half of its 
2017 accounting year. The Irish airline said it increased its load factor -- an indication of the number of seats sold as 
a percentage of capacity -- to 88 percent from 81 percent a year ago. Analysts at Goodbody Stockbrokers had 
expected Ryanair to have had to increase capacity by 16 percent to achieve such a level of passenger growth. The 
lower than expected increase in seats for sale was another positive element. "The surprise in the numbers was that 
capacity growth came in at only 10.4 percent. This is obviously very positive in terms of lowering unit costs," said 
Ryanair shares soar to record high Ryanair Shares
Mark Simpson at Goodbody Stockbrokers, reiterating his price target of 11.50 euros for the stock which it rates a 
"buy". (Reuters) For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 8, 2015
End of Document
UK Market Declines, But Airlines Higher
UK Market Declines, But Airlines Higher
RTT News (United States)
January 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 433 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market was weak on Monday, amid concerns about falling oil prices and Greece leaving the 
eurozone in the wake of the snap elections scheduled in the debt-ridden country.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel reportedly said the eurozone could cope with a potential Greek exit if it was 
proved necessary. The anti-austerity party Syriza seems to have an upper hand in the snap election there.
On the economic front, a measure of Eurozone investor confidence unexpectedly rose for a third straight month, 
moving into the positive territory, led by Germany, survey data from the think tank Sentix showed. The investor 
confidence index climbed to 0.9 from -2.5 in December. Economists had forecast an improvement to -1.
German employment reached a record high for the eighth consecutive year in 2014, a report published by German 
statistical office Destatis said. An average of 42.598 million persons were employed in 2014, up 372,000 or 0.9 
percent from the previous year.
At 8 am ET, Destatis is scheduled to release its flash consumer prices report. Consumer prices are expected to 
grow 0.3 percent year-over-year in December after a 0.6 percent rise in November. The harmonised index of 
consumer prices is estimated to increase 0.2 percent, following the 0.5 percent climb in November.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks was down 0.38 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, was losing 0.25 percent.
The FTSE 100 index fell 0.8 percent.
Weir Group declined around 4 percent and Aggreko dropped 2.7 percent.
Tullow Oil and BP were losing 2.7 percent and 2.6 percent, respectively.
Cruise company Carnival gained 3.3 percent and airlines International Consolidated Airlines and easyJet advanced 
2.6 percent and 2 percent in that order.
Ryanair, which reported increased traffic and load factor for December, rose around 2 percent.
Other markets in the region were mostly in negative territory.
UK Market Declines, But Airlines Higher
The Asian stocks ended mostly lower as lower crude oil prices and continued political turmoil in Greece 
overshadowed expectations of fresh European Central Bank stimulus.
In the U.S., futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the major averages ended mixed 
showing little change as disappointing reports on U.S. manufacturing and construction spending offset dovish 
comments from ECB President Mario Draghi.
Crude for February delivery fell $0.80 to $51.89 per barrel, while gold gained $5.8 to $1192.0 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: January 5, 2015
End of Document
European Markets Fall Amid Greek Worries As Oil Drops
European Markets Fall Amid Greek Worries As Oil Drops
RTT News (United States)
January 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 546 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets were weak on Monday, amid concerns about falling oil prices and Greece 
leaving the eurozone in the wake of the snap elections scheduled in the debt-ridden country.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel reportedly said the eurozone could cope with a potential Greek exit if it was 
proved necessary. The anti-austerity party Syriza seems to have an upper hand in the snap election there.
On the economic front, a measure of Eurozone investor confidence unexpectedly rose for a third straight month, 
moving into the positive territory, led by Germany, survey data from the think tank Sentix showed. The investor 
confidence index climbed to 0.9 from -2.5 in December. Economists had forecast an improvement to -1.
German employment reached a record high for the eighth consecutive year in 2014, a report published by German 
statistical office Destatis said. An average of 42.598 million persons were employed in 2014, up 372,000 or 0.9 
percent from the previous year.
At 8 am ET, Destatis is scheduled to release its flash consumer prices report. Consumer prices are expected to 
grow 0.3 percent year-over-year in December after a 0.6 percent rise in November. The harmonised index of 
consumer prices is estimated to increase 0.2 percent, following the 0.5 percent climb in November.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks was down 0.78 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, was losing 0.43 percent.
The German DAX fell 0.4 percent, while the French CAC 40 and the FTSE 100 index of the U.K. dropped 0.7 
percent each. Switzerland's SMI, meanwhile, gained moderately.
In Frankfurt, Lanxess dropped 3.1 percent and sports goods giant adidas fell 1.7 percent.
BMW and Volkswagen were losing 1.2 percent each.
Bucking the trend, Deutsche Boerse gained 2.3 percent and Fresenius Medical Care advanced 2.1 percent.
In Paris, Total fell close to 2 percent. Oilfield services provider Technip was moderately lower.
Metal fabrication firm Vallourec dropped 1.7 percent and builder Vinci declined 1.5 percent.
Yet Airbus added 3.2 percent and Essilor International gained 2.4 percent.
European Markets Fall Amid Greek Worries As Oil Drops
In London, Weir Group declined around 4 percent and Aggreko dropped 2.7 percent.
Tullow Oil and BP were losing 2.7 percent and 2.6 percent, respectively.
Cruise company Carnival gained 3.3 percent and airlines International Consolidated Airlines and easyJet advanced 
2.6 percent and 2 percent in that order.
Ryanair, which reported increased traffic and load factor for December, rose around 2 percent.
Citigroup reduced Repsol to "Neutral" from "Buy." The stock fell 2 percent in Madrid.
The Asian stocks ended mostly lower as lower crude oil prices and continued political turmoil in Greece 
overshadowed expectations of fresh European Central Bank stimulus.
In the U.S., futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the major averages ended mixed 
showing little change as disappointing reports on U.S. manufacturing and construction spending offset dovish 
comments from ECB President Mario Draghi.
Crude for February delivery fell $1.02 to $51.67 per barrel, while gold gained $3.4 to $1189.6 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: January 5, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair Dec passenger numbers up 20pc Ryanair PAX
Ryanair Dec passenger numbers up 20pc; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
January 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 75 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that it carried 20pc more travellers in December than it did a year earlier.
Body
Ryanair today said that it carried 20pc more travellers in December than it did a year earlier.
It carried 6.02 million passengers last month compared to 5.02 million in December 2013.
The Irish airline carried 86.4 million people in the 12 months of last year, a 6pc increase compared to the previous 
year.
Its load factor, an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, rose by 7pc to 8pc, it added. For more 
visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: January 7, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair December Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
Ryanair December Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
January 5, 2015 Monday
Copyright 2015 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 98 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L,RYAAY) Monday said its December month traffic 
rose by 20% to over 6.0 million customers. Its monthly load factor improved 7 percent to 88 percent from 81 percent 
a year ago.
The company attributed the improvement in load factor and traffic, to decrease in fares, stronger forward booking 
and its improving customer service.
Ryanair's annual traffic grew 6 percent to 86.4 million customers, the company said in a statement.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2015 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: January 5, 2015
End of Document
Outlook 2015: 10 to watch in 2015
Outlook 2015: 10 to watch in 2015
Sunday Business Post
January 4, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1447 words
Body
GameGolf
Not everyone finds their product endorsed by the president of the United States. But GameGolf inventor and chief 
executive John McGuire can boast this high-level product endorsement for his golf performance tracker gadget, 
which Barack Obama was spotted using during a round of golf at Martha's Vineyard during the summer.
GameGolf is also endorsed by golf stars, including Graeme McDowell and Lee Westwood, and backed by funding 
from Yahoo founder Jerry Yang's start-up fund and former PayPal boss David Marcus.
GameGolf has rapidly grown in sales since Apple and professional golf stores in North America began stocking it. 
McGuire, a native of Corofin, Co Clare, who worked for ten years with Nortel in Ireland, has relocated to Silicon 
Valley to build the business further.
The plan is to add millions in funding to expand into more markets in 2015.
Further down the line McGuire has ambitions to apply the same social media linked performance technology to 
other sports.
**Rohan Holdings**
It's not a new up-and-coming company, but it's one that is priming itself to be a key player in the property recovery. 
Rohan Holdings is now run by property magnate Ken Rohan's son Jamie.
As well as building homes at the higher end of the market, particularly in south Dublin, it has significant commercial 
property opportunities in its sights and there's potential for joint ventures with major international partners.
One of the country's biggest commercial property companies, it escaped the worst of the crash and has a sizeable 
cash pile to work with now that there's an uptick in development and acquisitions.
Outlook 2015: 10 to watch in 2015
The business has EUR 100 million plus worth of well-placed industrial park and office blocks in north Dublin and 
Britain, and the company is in the process of completing a state-of-the-art refit of a Silicon Docks building with big-
tech tenant potential.
With an estimated 1.5 million square feet of office space a year needed in Dublin, and rising demand for housing, 
2015 should be a busy year.
**OneView Healthcare**
Operating in the hot health tech space, Dublin-based OneView has just raised $7 million to help finance new 
international contracts, bringing its total funding to $20 million.
The innovative company is chaired by Ryanair director and former A&L Goodbody lawyer James Osborne, with 
James Fitter as chief executive. It has attracted dozens of wealthy investors taking small stakes for their pension 
pots, but its major backers are Australian.
It views North America as its    critical   market and so far has installed its systems across 850 devices at almost 
300 beds in three multibillion dollar Californian hospitals due to open in February 2015.
It has hired a    patient engagement   specialist in San Francisco to develop that business.
Next year it wants to expand much further, targeting nine new contracts in the US and six in Australia and aiming to 
win new business in the Middle East.
OneView's technology works with hospitals' IT systems, supplying information on patient care and entertainment 
services for patients on nifty bedside terminals and doctors' smartphones and tablets.
**Vizlegal**
Vizlegal is the brainchild of Gavin Sheridan - a long-time challenger of the Freedom of Information Act's limitations 
and the secrecy of state agencies - and his legal eagle business partner Fred Logue.
The pair aim to set up an information service that gives access, in a systematic way, to legal decisions, judgments 
and other case details, moving that data beyond box files and paper documents.
Initially, it will target the legal market in Europe, competing with information giants Lexis and Thomson Reuters.
Logue is an intellectual property lawyer who previously worked in the tech sector, while Sheridan is a former 
director of media site Storyful.
Sheridan has blogged about how he views the future of news lying in the development of information gathering 
software. The plan is to launch a beta (late stage testing version) in the New Year and to get a fundraising mission 
underway.
**Drop**
Liam Casey, who heads up Apple accessories maker PCH, spotted the potential of Drop from very early on, 
enlisting it in his hardware start-up development programme in San Francisco.
Co-founder and industrial designer Ben Harris, along with Jack Phelan, Jonny McCauley and Tim Redfern, 
developed iPad-connected kitchen scales (shaped like a drop) and a highly interactive and adaptive recipe platform.
Based in Dublin and San Francisco, it has developer and other technical roles based at its IFSC offices here.
The device is being manufactured at Casey's production facility in China, which started delivering its first Drops in 
recent months.
Outlook 2015: 10 to watch in 2015
Android and Windows versions are next and new innovations that will    move the whole way around the kitchen  , 
according to Harris.
**Ding**
Reigning EY entrepreneur of the year Mark Roden showed remarkable foresight in 2014 when his company 
acquired a Cuban firm just months before that country's relationship with the US thawed.
Set up by Roden, a former Esat executive, in 2006, Ding employs more than 200 people in Dublin and is now 
processing transfers in excess of $1 million every day to mobile phones in emerging markets.
Formerly known as Ezetop, Ding allows people to send money in the form of a mobile phone top-up to anywhere in 
the world and is set for a big push into international markets over the next 12 months.
Last year, Roden told this newspaper that the deal to acquire RecargasaCuba could be the first of a number of 
acquisitions as the company seeks to grow in emerging markets, where mobile phone top-ups are still massively 
popular.
**Intercom**
It took software firm Intercom just 30 months to go from an unknown Dublin-based start-up to the talk of Silicon 
Valley when the company managed to raise more than $23 million last January - bringing its total funding to a 
massive $30 million.
The round was led by US venture capital giant Bessemer, and the investment puts Intercom in good company 
alongside Bessemer portfolio companies LinkedIn, Skype and Pinterest.
One year on and the firm's investors are expecting big things.
The deal allowed Intercom to expand rapidly, with Eoghan McCabe, who is the firm's chief executive, putting in 
place a plan to create 100 jobs in Dublin over the next 18 months.
Already employing 30 people in Dublin, the company also has a large presence at its San Francisco headquarters.
**WhatClinic**
Employing more than 50 people in Dublin, WhatClinic is tapping into the EUR 8 trillion global private healthcare 
market with a system which helps people find and compare clinics and healthcare services in more than 200 
countries
Founder and chief executive Caelen King hit on the idea after unexpectedly needing surgery while travelling in 
South East Asia and realising there were few ways of researching the best place to seek care.
Years later, in an era of medical migration that sees many people routinely travel to Hungary for dental work, South 
Africa for laser eye operations, or the US for facelifts, King's brainwave seems to have been prescient.
**CurrencyFair**
Given the move away from cash as technology increasingly replaces traditional banking, the timing of 
CurrencyFair's entry into the market could not have been much better.
CurrencyFair is the brainchild of Brett Meyers, an Australian expatriate living in Ireland who had a bad experience 
with international money transfers costing him hundreds of euro in fees.
His idea was simple - set up an online service that allows people who need to exchange currency to do so without a 
middleman. By cutting out the middleman, a lot of the cost was cut out too.
Outlook 2015: 10 to watch in 2015
So far, the company has been a runaway success and is now processing millions of dollars of transactions.
Backed by Frontline Ventures, with a multimillion-dollar investment deal, it is on a major growth curve.
**Handy**
It has been a big year for Irish businessman Oisin Hanrahan as his company, rebranded from Handybook to just 
Handy, secured a massive funding round and increased its international reach.
The New York-headquartered Handy, which has been described as a    Hailo for handymen and cleaners   
succeeded in raising EUR 22 million in venture capital funding last summer. On the back of that deal, Hanrahan and 
his team have been expanding rapidly.
In an effort to grow quickly in the British market the firm acquired local competitor Mopp, which also provides home 
cleaning services, for an undisclosed sum thought to be in the millions.
The deal was not the first strategic acquisition of its kind for Handy, which acquired San Francisco-based Exec to 
gain additional market share in some cities where it didn't have as strong a presence in early 2014.
Load-Date: January 5, 2015
End of Document
Outlook 2015: Why the sky's the limit for aviation players
Outlook 2015: Why the sky's the limit for aviation players
Sunday Business Post
January 4, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 929 words
Body
Last year may have been all about Ryanair's phenomenal personality transformation, but 2015 could be the year 
that Aer Lingus finally flies its state-owned nest.
The airline ended last year in a state of limbo, with no chief executive and an expectation that Willie Walsh's IAG 
will return with an improved takeover offer this year. Aer Lingus has performed admirably in recent years, 
particularly on transatlantic routes and has only held on the to the last vestiges of its state-owned past through the 
finger nail of the government's 25 per cent shareholding.
But a takeover by IAG, the parent company of both British Airways and Iberia, would be one of the most seismic 
events in the airline's almost 79 year history.
Change of some sort looks inevitable. Analysts do not rule out the possibility of bitter British Airways rival Virgin or 
Etihad, which already owns 4 per cent of Aer Lingus, launching a rival bid.
   There is definitely the possibility that other people will come out of the woodwork and bid for the company,   one 
analyst said.    But IAG, for a whole bunch of reasons, would be the most logical partner. IAG brings a whole lot of 
connectivity through London Heathrow for the Irish economy and you have someone running IAG who has a track 
record in the Irish market.  
Still, the government should leverage whatever strengths it has to get cast-iron guarantees on connectivity and 
guaranteed minimum flights between Ireland and Heathrow. The key (probably only) leverage it has is the issue of 
the 24 slots Aer Lingus owns at the London airport.
With a third runway at the airport held up indefinitely, every slot is at a premium. As part of the privatisation of Aer 
Lingus a clause was written into the airline's articles of association that blocks any sale or transfer of the Aer Lingus 
Heathrow slots if the government opposes it along with another 5 per cent shareholder.
Outlook 2015: Why the sky's the limit for aviation players
Key to the timing of IAG's bid is the fact that Aer Lingus has finally sorted out its pension debacle. But another 
major factor that makes a profitable independent airline such as Aer Lingus a tempting target for IAG and others is 
the collapse in oil prices. Low fuel costs means more cash for acquisitions and the likelihood of greater profits.
**The Avalon effect**
Another Irish aviation company to watch this year is aircraft lessor Avolon, as it is also set to benefit from lower fuel 
costs across the industry. Its chief executive, Domhnal Slattery, struck a confident pose on CNBC's Squawk On 
The Street last month in the moments after his aircraft leasing firm's $272 million IPO on the New York Stock 
Exchange.
Not only did he politely overlook the presenter's insistence on calling him    Dumb Naul   - thus avoiding the type of 
Irish-US television clash that afflicted others during 2014 - but he also confidently brushed aside Avolon's falling 
share price. Avolon had floated at $20 in New York and, at that moment, was trading down 6 per cent. Slattery and 
many of his team cut their teeth in Tony Ryan's GPA, a company for which the New York Stock Exchange was a 
horror show.
Slattery's pitch to the markets was that low oil prices were a    very strong tailwind for airline profitability  .
   Confident airlines means growing airlines. Growing airlines want more aircraft,   he said.
Indeed, total airline profitability for this year is forecast to be about $25 billion,    the highest it has ever been, 
certainly since I came into this industry,   said Slattery.
   The leasing market is strong. Emerging Asian airlines are putting on 100 million new passengers every year 
incrementally. That is the equivalent of an American Airlines or a Lufthansa every year.  
Slattery was quick to point out that the value of the company's aircraft fleet in service is about $300 million higher 
than the company's current market capitalisation.
Nevertheless, the fall in oil prices is not without its challenges for Avolon. Its extremely young fleet (2.5 years on 
average) provided a major advantage in a higher oil price environment with airlines motivated to seek the youngest, 
most fuel efficient aircraft possible. Falling fuel costs takes the urgency out of that for airlines, although young 
aircraft still bring big advantages in terms of reliability.
Given the geopolitical game playing so evident in the oil markets, no airline will look to the year ahead with 
complete confidence of the fuel price bonanza continuing. Neither have the positive benefits fully worked through 
the system for many airlines.
**Ryanair**
Ryanair is a case in point. It had hedged 90 per cent of its fuel for 2015 at approximately $96 a barrel and at least 
55 per cent of its fuel for the first half of next year at similar rates, well above what it could be paying for fuel if it 
were not hedged.
Nevertheless, 2015 promises to be yet another strong year for Ryanair. 2014 was remarkable. In November 2013 
its share price had hit a low of EUR 5.33 after two profit warnings. Its highly disciplined transformation into a more 
customer friendly and more business focused carrier drove the airline's share price as investors bought into the new 
approach. But the real lift came when it announced an order for 200 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The airline described 
the deal as    a game changer   and investors agreed: the share price rose to above EUR 9.70.
An IAG deal to buy Aer Lingus would in at least one respect be a further bonus to Ryanair. Having long ago written 
down the cost of its 29 per cent shareholding in its rival, a deal price around the EUR 2.45 mark would see it break 
even on its investment.
Outlook 2015: Why the sky's the limit for aviation players
Load-Date: January 5, 2015
End of Document
Outlook 2015: Irish stocks to watch in 2015
Outlook 2015: Irish stocks to watch in 2015
Sunday Business Post
January 4, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1026 words
Body
The mood in Anglesea Street, the home of the Irish Stock Exchange, must be much better these days. While 
volatility crept into markets in November and December, the Iseq can boast of double-digit gains while most 
continental exchanges barely ended the year in positive territory. Listings have increased, trading volumes are up 
and several of its key members ended 2014 sitting on all-time highs.
So what stocks will be the focus of investors' attention in 2015 and could it be a year of deals for Iseq-quoted 
companies? And could it start with a major takeover?
Almost a decade ago the former taoiseach Bertie Ahern accused Willie Walsh of attempting to steal Aer Lingus 
when the former pilot raised the possibility of a management buyout. Walsh has certainly become a high flyer as 
chief executive of British Airways and then the combined BA/Iberia parent International Consolidated Airlines Group 
(IAG). Walsh and IAG swooped on his former employers in December with a takeover bid thought to be in the 
region of EUR 2.20 a share. It's easy to see why he wants Aer Lingus.
With its seemingly-endless pensions dispute resolved, Aer Lingus ended 2014 in rude financial health. Helped by 
lower fuel prices and the surge in transatlantic passengers thanks to new routes to the West Coast of the US and 
Canada Aer Lingus is one of the strongest carriers in Europe at present.
But in an industry that is increasingly dominated by a small number of large carriers can Aer Lingus survive 
independently? And will its shareholders look to cash in on the more than 50 per cent surge in its shares in 2014? 
For the government, with its 24 per cent stake, it would raise close on EUR 300 million (and it might be tempted to 
accept that if it could secure guarantees on keeping the livery and commitments on connectivity, such as the 
hallowed Heathrow landing slots).
For Ryanair, another major shareholder, it would be a clean and swift exit as it faces a British ruling to sell down its 
29 per cent stake anyway. Walsh may have been seen off for now, but most aviation experts expect him to be back 
at the negotiating table early in 2015 with an improved offer.
Outlook 2015: Irish stocks to watch in 2015
**C&C: will 2015 bring a transformative deal?**
Stephen Glancey has completed the makeover of C&C from a pure cider maker to a wider drinks distribution group. 
The company's performance in Ireland and Scotland has stabilised, but the lack of visibility of Magners cider in 
pubs across England and a deteriorating performance in the US, where it returned a profit of just EUR 700,000 in 
the six months to the end of August last, highlights the need for more action.
The proposed EUR 1 billion takeover of the Spirit Pub group in Britain failed to get off the ground and some 
investors may be weary of the strategy. However, Glancey has warned that something needs to happen to reignite 
its business in England. This could be the year of a transformative deal for the company. Having shown that it won't 
baulk at spending a huge sum of money C&C may have its eyes on other targets. As the C&C boss pointed out, he 
and his chairman have plenty of experience running pub chains and getting the distribution correct could be the 
game changer for Magners.
**Oil: the fallout from the price drop**
The collapse in oil may be good news for the economy and consumers, but for oil majors and explorers, falling 
prices are a nightmare. Tullow saw its share price slide mirror that of crude, dropping more than 50 per cent in 
2014. That's prompted speculation the Aidan Heavey-led company could become a potential takeover target.
Tullow's response to the oil plunge crisis has been to caution investors that its investment spending will be    
significantly reduced   in 2015 and concentrated on its wells and fields in East Africa.
It's those fields in Uganda and Kenya that may prove attractive for potential buyers.
The region has proved successful for Tullow at a time when some of its other assets have turned out to be duds. 
But with substantial capital expenditure required eventually if the African assets are to be developed, it may be one 
of the giants such as China's CNOOC or a Total or BP that complete the work.
Closer to home, Providence Resources will finally need to show that its much-vaunted Barryroe oil and gas play off 
the south coast can attract outside investment. Chief executive Tony O'Reilly has been promising junior 
shareholders a so-called farm out agreement with a major global energy company that will release plenty of cash 
for investors. That deal has been talked about for some time, while Providence insists Barryroe is a prospect that is 
important not just for its fortunes but also Ireland's exploration industry.
Failure to ink a farm out early in the new year will put further pressure on its already weak share price.
**2014 a good year for Datalex, now for 2015**
The software company Datalex, which powers the websites of many of the world's biggest airlines, enjoyed a good 
2014 with a near 30 per cent surge in its shares in 2014.
The company paid its first ever dividend in 2014 and ended the year on a high with a forecast of an 18-20 per cent 
rise in earnings and a range of new global airline customers.
The company's shareholder base includes Dermot Desmond with a 28 per cent holding and Nick Furlong's Pageant 
Holdings with 11 per cent.
**New broom at Paddy Power**
The reins at Paddy Power have been handed from Patrick Kennedy to Andy McCue. With regulation in Britain 
tightening pressure on high street bookies and its business in Italy taking longer to turn a profit McCue will have to 
ensure Paddy Power's stellar growth under Kennedy can continue.
A rugby world cup in 2015 won't make up for not having the soccer equivalent providing a good boost to betting 
revenues last year. And he'll be hoping football results won't sink trading early in the year.
Outlook 2015: Irish stocks to watch in 2015
As usual the banks will get plenty of attention in 2015 with AIB and Permanent TSB looking to sell shares.
Attracting new investors to help reduce the government's 99 per cent stakes in both those banks will also help the 
Iseq keep its rebound going in 2015.
*Ian Guider presents Breakfast Business weekdays 6.30-7am on Newstalk*
Load-Date: January 5, 2015
End of Document
Stock take: market week
Stock take: market week
Sunday Business Post
January 4, 2015
Copyright 2015 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 531 words
Body
Petroceltic's biggest shareholder, Worldview, has called for the resignation of chief executive Brian O'Cathain after 
Dragon Oil dropped its bid to buy the Irish oil explorer.
   Worldview's actions appear rather heavy-handed and we would be surprised if calls for management change 
garnered popular support. Moreover, we would add that Dragon Oil's decision to withdraw from takeover talks was 
entirely down to the falling oil price and unrelated to Petroceltic management.  
*Briefing note from analysts at Mirabaud Securities*
.....
**Ryanair's 'gamechanger' planes continue to drive growth**
   Ryanair is proud and honoured to become the lead operator of Boeing's 737 'gamechanger' aircraft. This order 
will expand our fleet to approx 520 aircraft by 2024 and create another 10,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and 
engineers in Europe, while allowing us to grow our traffic to over 150 million per annum.  
*Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary, speaking after shareholders backed a new aircraft order last year*
.....
**Permanent TSB considers a EUR 400m share sale**
   The only issue that arose in these tests was in respect of the Adverse Stress Test scenario which the ECB itself 
acknowledges as 'extreme' and which does not reflect a number of important factors, including the progress made 
by the bank over the past year or the existence of EUR 400 million of contingent capital. Our capital plan for the 
ECB will demonstrate that we have already closed the gap identified, at that time by over 80 per cent and we are 
Stock take: market week
planning to raise capital from private investors to support both the maintenance of prudent capital buffers and 
profitable growth.  
*Jeremy Masding, PTSB chief executive, speaking when the stress test results were published*
.....
**Facebook believes social ads will become increasingly valuable**
   We believe Facebook's virtual ownership of the social graph, strong competitive moat, and focus on the user 
experience position the company to significantly improve monetisation over time and to become an enduring, blue-
chip company built for the long term. Facebook's massive reach and engagement continue to drive network effects, 
and its targeting abilities provide significant value to advertisers, though it is still early. We believe Facebook's ad 
platform is just beginning to shift toward more social ads with higher quality formats, and it will become increasingly 
valuable to advertisers.  
*JP Morgan research report*
.....
**McDonald's lagging behind rest of food industry**
   McDonald's US comparable sales fell 4.6 per cent in November, the steepest decline since June 2001.  
   Large burger chains appear to be reaching maturity in the US. As the largest, McDonald's would be expected to 
reach maturity ahead of its peers.  
   McDonald's has been underperforming in the food industry in general.  
   Beef prices have risen over the last few years. As an important component of costs, this increase may have a 
negative impact on the . . . Dollar Menu.  
   At its investor meeting on December 10, McDonald's signalled its intention to make strategic and operational 
changes to address the decline.  
*Excerpts from a recent Davy research note on McDonald's*
Load-Date: January 5, 2015
End of Document
Dublin day three highlights
Dublin day three highlights
AirFinance Journal
January 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,AFRICA,ASIA PACIFIC & AUSTRALASIA,EUROPE,LATIN AMERICA & 
CARIBBEAN,MIDDLE EAST,NORTH AMERICA,RUSSIA & 
CIS,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,LESSORS,FUEL,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 223 words
Highlight: News from the third day at the Global Airfinance Dublin Conference 2015.
Body
Dublin 2015: Latin carriers explore EETCs
Banks state they are actively working on at least four non-US EETCs.
Dublin 2015: ACG treasurer moves to Wings Capital
Aviation investment boutique recruits US lessor's senior executive.
HKAC selling A320s
Hong Kong lessor seeks buyers for ten-year-old aircraft. Superjet International could replicate ECA financing
Aircraft marketer could repeat multi-tranche financing supported by three ECAs.
Dublin 2015: Ryanair receives five 737-800s
Deliveries are the first of an order of 180 aircraft. Dublin 2015: DVB A320 purchase update
Sources confirm the seller of the five aircraft.
Dublin 2015: China Southern to lease Airbus aircraft
Chinese carrier will finance lease A320s and an A330 from a Chinese lessor. Dublin 2015: Shenzhen to lease 
A320s
Chinese carrier will receive four of the jets from a Chinese lessor this year. Dublin 2015: CCB to nearly double fleet 
in 2015
Chinese lessor plans to introduce A320s and 737s. Dublin 2015: Ethiopian Airlines to receive seven new aircraft in 
2015
Dublin day three highlights
The first aircraft will deliver later this month. Dublin 2015: Ryanair to receive 737 Max 200s
The aircraft will deliver between 2019 and 2024.
Dublin 2015: New OEMs will drive lessor specialization
Awas CEO Ray Sisson predicts further leasing consolidation but predicts success by new airframers
could change leasing market.
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Low fuel prices will "erode" European airline discipline
Low fuel prices will "erode" European airline discipline
AirFinance Journal
January 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: EUROPE,AIRLINES,FUEL,BREAKING NEWS,ANALYSIS
Length: 325 words
Byline: Dickon Harris
Highlight: HSBC research notes argues that continued low fuel prices will cause bigger benefits for European 
airlines in 2016.
Body
An HSBC research note published today warned that low fuel prices is likely to "an adverse development" for the 
future health of European airlines which included Aer Lingus, Air Berlin, AF-KLM, EasyJet, Finnair, Flybe, IAG, 
Lufthansa, NAS, Ryanair, and SAS. 
Andrew Lobbenberg, an analyst with HSBC Bank argued that falling fuel prices would lead to a short-term bump in 
profits for European carriers but in the long-term would weaken capacity discipline and delay airline consolidation.
Fuel accounted for between 25-45% of European total 2013 costs but most airlines are likely to see an impact in 
2016, argues HSBC as the bulk of their fuel costs are hedged. European carriers had between 27% and 90% of 
their planned fuel use in 2015 already locked.
"We think that falling fuel costs will clearly improve the short-run profitability of airlines, albeit more modestly than 
the headline fall in crude might suggest. We see greater benefits coming in 2016 as the hedging that most of our 
coverage has tends to drop away. On a mid- to long-term basis the impact is less benign. A sustained lower oil 
price will weaken capacity discipline and delay industry restructuring. Higher capacity and less consolidation will 
lead to lower unit revenues and the benefits of lower fuel being increasingly passed to consumers," states 
Lobbenberg.
Lobbenberg argued that the low fuel prices would benefit European flags carriers which tend to have older less fuel 
efficient fleet than their low-cost rivals such as EasyJet and Ryanair, as well as operating at lower profit margins.
Off the back of low fuel prices HSBC upgraded Air Berlin's rating from underweight volatile to neutral volatile while 
keeping ratings for the other carriers the same. The note stated the change was due to expected gains in 2016 for 
the carrier when its existing fuel hedging positions are likely to expire. Air Berlin has 73% of its FY15 fuel needs 
already hedged.
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Low fuel prices will "erode" European airline discipline
Load-Date: February 2, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus open to IAG offer
Aer Lingus open to IAG offer
AirFinance Journal
January 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS,IRELAND
Length: 196 words
Highlight: Irish carrier warms to offer from BA and Iberia parent firm of EUR 2.55 per share.
Body
Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus has today indicated that it would be willing to accept IAG's revised share proposal.
Airfinance Journalreported yesterdaythat International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) has revised its proposal 
for the purchase of Aer Lingus shares, offering the airlinea cash bid of â,¬1.35 billion ($1.52 billion). AIG is willing to 
offer the flag carrier EUR 2.55 ($2.88) per share comprising EUR 2.50 per share and a EUR 0.05 cash dividend.
The Aer Lingus board of directors has now said that the financial terms are "at a level at which it would be willing to 
recommend, subject to being satisfied with the manner in which IAG proposes to address the interests of relevant 
parties."
According to the statement, the revised proposal remains conditional on, amongst "other things", confirmatory due 
diligence, the recommendation of the board of Aer Lingus and the receipt of irrevocable commitments from Ryanair 
and the Minister for Finance of Ireland to accept the offer, all of which may be waived in whole or in part by IAG.
To see all ofAer Lingus's and IAG's recent and historic deals visit Airfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Michael.Allen@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: February 16, 2015
End of Document
Dublin 2015: Ryanair receives five 737-800s
Dublin 2015: Ryanair receives five 737-800s
AirFinance Journal
January 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 105 words
Highlight: Deliveries are the first of an order of 180 aircraft.
Body
Irish carrier Ryanair has received five of its 180 737-800 NG aircraft on order, with the first of the aircraft arriving in 
September last year.
The operator expects the next six deliveries to come before the end of March 2015.
The pre-delivery payments for the aircraftwere paid forin cash.
Ryanair CFO Neil Sorohan toldAirfinance Journalthat the deliveries would allow Ryanair to grow by 40% over the 
next five years. He added that it was likely that Ryanair would fund the remaining balance of the deal in cash.
To see all of Ryanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Dublin 2015: Ryanair to receive 737 Max 200s
Dublin 2015: Ryanair to receive 737 Max 200s
AirFinance Journal
January 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND
Length: 100 words
Highlight: The aircraft will deliver between 2019 and 2024.
Body
Ryanair will receive 100 737 Max 200s between 2019 and 2024.
The Irish carrierfirmed up the orderback in December, which included the option of 100 additional 737 MAX 200s.
The first deliveries will start in winter 2019 or spring 2020.
The aircraft are valued at $11 billion, based on present list prices.
The operator presently has 308 aircraft in its fleet. The arrival of the new aircraft, along with the carrier's order of 
180 737-800s, will take its total fleet number up to 520.
To see all of Ryan Air's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Dublin 2015: Latin carriers explore EETCs
Dublin 2015: Latin carriers explore EETCs
AirFinance Journal
January 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN,BREAKING NEWS,DEALS
Length: 186 words
Byline: Dickon Harris
Highlight: Banks state they are actively working on at least four non-US EETCs.
Body
At least four non-US airlines are planning to do a EETC in 2015 according to a panel of aircraft financiers speaking 
today at the Dublin Airfinance Global Conference.
Thomas Cahill, managing director, Morgan Stanely, stated that the bank was working on at least two EETCs this 
year while ThomasHollahan, managing director at Citi confirmed that the bank was also advising on two non US 
deals.
"A lot of South American countries are starting to look at EETCS quite seriously and Middle Eastern Airlines are 
looking at the structure too," commented Cahill.
Hollahan pointed out that the benefit of the EETC stating that airlines could achieve much cheaper financing than 
ECA financing under the new ASU using the EETC market.
"WestJet and Ryanair- both intended to do EETCs. However they were rated for the EETC and got investment 
grade rating. Once they got rated they could then go to the unsecured bond market and raise Canadian dollars and 
euros respectively - something both carriers were keen to do. We may have lost a couple of EETC issuers but they 
are in a very good place now," added Hollahan.
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Aer Lingus considers revised IAG offer
Aer Lingus considers revised IAG offer
AirFinance Journal
January 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,AIRPORTS,CAPITAL,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND,SPAIN,UK
Length: 180 words
Highlight: IAG comes up with new cash offer to acquire Irish carrier.
Body
Aer Lingus is considering a revised share offer from International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) to take over the 
airline.
The revised offer is valued at $1.53 billion and follows on from two other bids last year, which were both rejected by 
the Irish carrier.
A statement released by IAG this morning said that the proposal consists of an offer of â,¬2.55 per share. It will be 
structured as a cash payment of â,¬2.50 per share payable on completion, along with a dividend of â,¬0.05 per 
share.
According to local media reports, the proposal has won the support of the carrier's board and is expected to be put 
forward to the Irish Cabinet tomorrow.
The two major Aer Lingus investors are Ryanair (holds a 29.8% stake) and the Irish government (holds a 25% 
stake). If the deal is accepted, IAG will gain access to Aer Lingus' 23 take-off and landing slots at Heathrow Airport.
IAG owns three other carriers, including British Airways, Vueling Airlines and Iberia.
To see all ofAer Lingus' recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Jack.Dutton@euromoneyplc.com"[
Load-Date: February 16, 2015
End of Document
Dublin 2015: Latin carriers explore EETCs
Dublin 2015: Latin carriers explore EETCs
AirFinance Journal
January 2015
Copyright 2015 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN,NORTH AMERICA,AIRLINES,CAPITAL,BREAKING 
NEWS,DEALS
Length: 188 words
Byline: Dickon Harris
Highlight: Banks state they are actively working on at least four non-US EETCs.
Body
At least four non-US airlines are planning to do a EETC in 2015 according to a panel of aircraft financiers speaking 
today at the Dublin Airfinance Global Conference.
Thomas Cahill, managing director, Morgan Stanley, stated that the bank was working on at least two EETCs this 
year while ThomasHollahan, managing director at Citi confirmed that the bank was also advising on two non US 
EETC deals. 
"A lot of South American countries are starting to look at EETCS quite seriously and Middle Eastern Airlines are 
looking at the structure too," commented Cahill.
Hollahan pointed out that the benefit of the EETC stating that airlines could achieve much cheaper financing than 
ECA financing under the new ASU using the EETC market. 
"WestJet and Ryanair- both intended to do EETCs. However they were rated for the EETC and got investment 
grade rating. Once they got rated they could then go to the unsecured bond market and raise Canadian dollars and 
euros respectively - something both carriers were keen to do. We may have lost a couple of EETC issuers but they 
are in a very good place now," added Hollahan. 
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: February 9, 2015
End of Document
Honours awarded by Commerce in 2014 achieve karmic symmetry
Honours awarded by Commerce in 2014 achieve karmic symmetry
Financial Times (London, England)
December 31, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 17
Length: 661 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
The Queen used her New Year honours list to award gongs to corporate governance guru Sir Adrian Cadbury and 
Anne Richards, investment boss of Aberdeen Asset Management. Otherwise, pickings for business people were 
extremely thin. With an election in May, the government does not want to buddy up to the City or big business. 
Making good the deficit - something that is beyond the Tories - Lombard is pleased to announce titles awarded by 
another sovereign lady - Commerce - to executives whose activities were noteworthy during 2014.
The deity, who resembles Dame Anita Roddick melded with Storm from the X-Men, pursues a policy of karmic 
symmetry. Honours for some are balanced by dishonours for others, as follows:
Knighthoods for services to rerating go to Manny Roman of hedge fund manager Man Group and Erik Engstrom 
of publisher Reed Elsevier. Cost cutting and better fund performance made Man the standout company in the FTSE 
350 during 2014. Its shares rose 83 per cent, according to Bloomberg. Reed increased profits and pushed further 
into digital services, which lifted its stock 22 per cent.
As a proud Frenchman and a republican, Mr Roman would be compelled to reject his honorary knighthood. As a 
diffident Swede, Mr Engstrom would be required to slip discreetly away from the ceremony before it ended.
The lesser title of Quadplay Cavalier  is bestowed on BT's Gavin Patterson, in recognition of his hairstyle and 
willingness to shell out shareholders' funds on expansion .
Honours awarded by Commerce in 2014 achieve karmic symmetry
Benighthoods for fumbling in the dark are conferred on Sir John Peace and Peter Sands at Standard Chartered. 
Shares have slumped 29 per cent as the sparring duo struggled to shake off Ben Lawsky, a New York regulator 
attached burr-like to the bank. A benighthood also goes to Bob Dudley at BP, who failed to evade the 
consequences of an ill-advised settlement agreement for the Macondo oil spill.
In addition, Messrs Peace, Sands and Dudley receive medals adorned with an eye-catching scapegoat motif. 
These recognise the service their companies have done in the US as foreign hate figures. The irony for Mr Dudley 
is that he is American.
Moving on to peerages, the ranks of Dynamic Dames  are enhanced by the admission of Carolyn McCall, who 
propelled low-cost airline easyJet into the FTSE 100. Her even greater feat was to make Michael O'Leary shut up 
(temporarily) after he twigged Ryanair's combative image contrasted poorly with easyJet's friendlier style.
This year's Lords (and Ladies) of Misrule  are the BG Group board for signing off the £12m golden hello for 
incoming chief executive Helge Lund. Shareholder anger forced them to execute a volte-face.
Harriet Green of Thomas Cook had been shortlisted for a dynamic damehood. Instead, she receives the Order of 
the Early Bath . The high-energy travel agent stepped down unexpectedly in November, after two years in post. 
Was she overcome with uncharacteristic embarrassment at having championed a logo called "The Sunny Heart"? 
Or could she no longer stomach the orange and green colour scheme of her London Wall offices? Mystery veils her 
departure.
Concomitantly, Justin King of J Sainsbury and Resolution's Clive Cowdery are admitted to the Order of the 
Elegant Exit , a chivalric body where company executives are as scarce as football managers. Mr King bailed out 
just before the going got really sticky for supermarkets. Grocers are under attack from hard discounters and online-
only retailers. The three big quoted chains ended the year near the bottom of the FTSE 100, their shares down 32-
45 per cent.
Entrepreneur Mr Cowdery meanwhile saw Aviva agree a £5.6bn takeover of Friends Life, the insurance 
consolidator he created. His share of the proceeds has an estimated value of some £130m. He now plans to pull 
together a new insurance behemoth in the US. You cannot fault his ambition, a quality conspicuous for its absence 
in a year when companies mostly hoarded cash or gave it back to investors.
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com 
Load-Date: December 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair extends Manchester summer 2015 schedule
Ryanair extends Manchester summer 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 31, 2014 Wednesday 7:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 131 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has announced extension to its Manchester summer 2015 schedule with a new route to 
Stuttgart in Germany, which will operate six times weekly from April 2, 2015.
Body
This is in addition to 2 new summer 2015 routes to Eindhoven and Shannon (38 routes in total) and extra flights 
to/from Alicante, Lisbon and Madrid, which will deliver 2.7m customers p.a. and support 2,700 "on-site" jobs at 
Manchester Airport. In Manchester, Ryanair's Sales and Marketing Manager, Maria Macken said: "UK consumers 
already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. Now they can 
also book their flights even earlier on our improved website and great new app, carry a free small 2nd carry-on bag, 
enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their personal electronic 
devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: January 6, 2015
End of Document
Budget Carrier Safety Questioned After AirAsia Disappearance
Budget Carrier Safety Questioned After AirAsia Disappearance
International Business Times News
December 30, 2014 Tuesday 12:02 AM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 996 words
Byline: Shuan Sim
Body
Dec 29, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 Budget air travel has become increasingly popular in Southeast Asia, guided by a boom of low-cost carriers. But 
with the disappearance of AirAsia Flight 8501, experts have expressed concern that the air safety standards of 
carriers and traffic control in the region have been unable to keep up with increased demand.
 Budget airlines have been operating in Asia since 2000, and there are now about 50 budget carriers serving 16 
countries in Asia and Oceania. These airlines account for more than 25 percent of the traffic[1] in Asia these days, 
compared with just 9 percent in 2006. In 2011, the Asia-Pacific region commanded 30 percent of all global 
passengers, becoming the largest air travel market. In comparison, North America accounted for 29 percent and 
Europe accounted for 27.5 percent.
 The rapid expansion of budget airlines in the region may have led to weaker air traffic controls and planes being 
operated by less-experienced personnel, according to Bloomberg[2]. Indonesian flight crews, for example, have 
been known to be overworked, with some pilots at Indonesian carrier Lion Air being arrested in 2012 for use of 
crystal methamphetamine[3] to stay awake on flights.
 The AirAsia flight requested permission Sunday to fly at a higher height due to storm clouds, but six other 
commercial airliners were already in that airspace, forcing it to remain in place. It then went missing.
 Robert Francis, former vice chairman of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, said the subsequent 
AirAsia disappearance closely resembled the 2009 Air France Flight 447 incident, according to the Wall Street 
Journal[4]. Francis said it is likely that ice particles in high-altitude storms caused airspeed indicator malfunctions 
and led to both crashes. In such cases, he said, pilots had to manually fly the plane and rely on expertise to guide 
the plane to safety. The pilot on the AirAsia flight reportedly had the requisite 6,000 hours needed to operate the 
Airbus plane he was flying, but it was unclear if he had experience flying at 34,000 feet or higher, or at handling 
adverse weather conditions at that height.
 Budget airlines are popular because of their low ticket prices, achieved by various cost-saving methods. These 
include fuel savings from fuel-efficient single-aisle jets, premium costs for such "amenities" as baggage check-ins, 
or even eclectic measures such as saving space by not allowing seats to recline, in the case of Irish carrier Ryanair.
 Some low-cost airlines have been criticized for putting savings above safety. The Australian Civil Aviation Safety 
Authority suspended[5] Tiger Airways Australia operations in 2011, saying that the airlines 'poses a serious and 
imminent risk to air safety' for various infractions, including descending below the minimum safe altitude and flying 
dangerously close to other aircraft.
Budget Carrier Safety Questioned After AirAsia Disappearance
 Some Asian airlines' safety records also did not pass international standards. The U.S. Federal Aviation 
Administration downgraded Indonesia's safety assessment[6] to 'category 2' seven years ago for a lack of "technical 
expertise, trained personnel, record keeping or inspection procedures," and India was also downgraded[7] late 
January 2014, joining a list of six other countries, including Bangladesh. The Philippines regained its top rating in 
April this year after being downgraded back in 2008. The downgrade effectively prevents airlines from these 
countries from increasing service into the United States.
 All but five of Indonesia's airlines and two from the Philippines have also been blacklisted[8] from flying into the 
European Union. AirAsia Indonesia is exempt from the ban. Following AirAsia's disappearance, Indonesian 
President Joko Widodo called for an immediate review[9] of all aviation procedures.
 "There's been so much expansion in the low-cost sector, especially in the Asia-Pacific region, that there are 
worries that the regulation that is needed, and which traditionally applies to airlines, hasn't caught up,' Gabriel 
Mocho, civil aviation secretary at the International Transport Workers' Federation, told the Telegraph[10] back in 
2011. "The regulatory authorities are going to have to look more widely than at just one airline. We believe that the 
reported decreases in safety and pilot training are a direct consequence of that low-cost model and that there is a 
price to pay for such low fares and deregulation - and it is safety."
 Despite the alleged lapses in safety standards, passengers are still more than willing to take budget airlines in 
Asia. AirAsia had a rating of 3.5 out of 5 on trip booking site Trip Adviser[11], with 65 percent of the users on the 
site recommending it. Similar budget carriers like Tiger Air and JetStar had a lower rating of 3 stars out of 5, and a 
45 percent average of users recommending them.
 [1]: 
http://www.wsj.com/articles/airasia-helped-transform-plane-travel-in-asia-1419759962 
[2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/07/uk-indonesia-pilot-idUSLNE81602M20120207 
[3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/07/uk-indonesia-pilot-idUSLNE81602M20120207 
[4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.wsj.com/articles/missing-airasia-flight-stirs-old-debates-over-safety-1419816856 
[5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.casa.gov.au/SCRIPTS/NC.DLL?WCMS:STANDARD::pc=PC_100504 
[6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.faa.gov/news/press_releases/news_story.cfm?newsId=8666 
[7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://centreforaviation.com/analysis/faa-downgrade-shows-systemic-flaws-in-indias-aviation-safety-oversight-jet-
airways-most-affected-150822 [8]:            http://ec.europa.eu/transport/modes/air/safety/air-ban/index_en.htm [9]:       
     http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2014/12/29/world/asia/ap-as-indonesia-plane.html [10]:            
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travelnews/8623629/Safety-suffers-in-airline-boom-says-union.html [11]:            
http://www.tripadvisor.com/Airlines 
Load-Date: December 30, 2014
End of Document
Company Watch - Boeing
Company Watch - Boeing
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
December 29, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry News; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 1469 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Company Watch) Mon, Dec 29, 2014
Kuwait Airways finalized a $3.3 billion Boeing 777 jet order Boeing and Kuwait Airways have finalized an order for 
10 jets, a deal valued at $3.3 billion based on list prices. Kuwait Airways ordered 10 777-300ERs, which can carry 
386 passengers and fly up to 7,825 miles nonstop. The tentative order was announced in November. "Kuwait 
Airways has plans to renew its fleet as well as expand its operations and the 777-300ER is a perfect airplane for our 
strategy," Rasha Al Roumi, Kuwait Airways CEO, said in a news release. Ray Conner, president and CEO of 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said the aerospace industry in the Middle East "continues to enjoy a phenomenal 
growth and we are proud to be part of that growth." Wed, Dec 24, 2014
Ku-band connectivity coming to 777s Global Eagle Entertainment says it has been cleared by regulators to install its 
Ku-band connectivity system on Boeing 777 aircraft, which will be available to airlines beginning in January. Tue, 
Dec 23, 2014
Avianca receives its first Boeing 787-8 Avianca took delivery of its first Boeing 787-8, N780AV (msn 37502), at a 
ceremony held at Everett on Thursday, December 18. The aircraft, part of an order for fifteen, was subsequently 
flown to Bogot‡. Once certified and granted an airworthiness certificate by the Colombia civil aviation authority 
(AeroCivil), the aircraft will make its commercial debut between Bogota and New York JFK on January 16. 
Additional airframes will be used to open up flights from Bogota, Cali, and Medell’n JosŽ Maria C—rdova to Madrid 
Barajas, Barcelona El Prat, and London Heathrow. Tue, Dec 23, 2014
EasyJet to start Azores and Lisbon flights EasyJet will begin 3x weekly flights between Ponta Delgada, S o Miguel 
in the Azores, and Lisbon on the Portuguese mainland beginning March 29, 2015. The route will gradually grow to a 
4x weekly service come mid-summer. The carrier's entry follows a recent Ryanair decision to base a Boeing 737-
800 out of the archipelago beginning in April next year. The Government of the Azores' decision to revise its policy 
on Public Service Obligation (PSO) route subsidies was the driving catalyst for both budget carriers' entrance into 
the Azorian market. Tue, Dec 23, 2014
Researchers successfully test hybrid-electric aircraft Researchers at the University of Cambridge in the U.K. are 
collaborating with Boeing and have successfully tested a parallel hybrid-electric plane. An electric motor works with 
a conventionally fueled engine to provide more power during takeoff and landing. Once at cruising altitude, the 
Company Watch - Boeing
motor can help keep fuel consumption low when it's in assist mode or it can be put into generator mode to recharge 
the batteries. Tue, Dec 23, 2014
Boeing gets $6B 737 order from Air China Air China has ordered 60 Boeing 737 aircraft in a $6 billion deal recently 
announced by Boeing. The planes will be delivered between 2016 and 2020. "We are excited to see that the 737 
family will play a significant role in Air China's continued success," said Ihssane Mounir, a Boeing vice president. 
Tue, Dec 23, 2014
Emirates will launch a third daily flight to Birmingham Emirates has confirmed it will launch a third daily flight to 
Birmingham from next year. The carrier will become the first airline to offer a direct first class service to the airport 
when it launches the additional flight, which will be operated by a Boeing 777-300ER, on August 1. Outbound flight 
EK41 will depart Dubai at 0235 and arrive in Birmingham at 0705 local time. Return service EK42 will take-off from 
Birmingham at 0910 and land back in Dubai at 1910. Emirates started flying to Birmingham in December 2000. The 
new service will be operated by a Boeing 777-300ER in a three-class configuration with eight private suites in first 
class, 42 seats in business and 310 in economy. Tue, Dec 23, 2014
Etihad to launch second non-stop Melbourne service Additional flight takes off on August 1, 2015 Abu Dhabi: Etihad 
Airways announced plans for a second daily non-stop service between Abu Dhabi and Melbourne from August 1, 
2015. The additional flight will be operated by a Boeing 777-300ER aircraft with eight seats in First Class, 40 in 
Business Class, and 280 in Economy Class. This brings over 4,500 seats per week to the route, supporting two-
way demand. It will also double the airlineÕs freight handling capacity providing new opportunities for trade. Mon, 
Dec 22, 2014
Blue1 to switch its Boeing 717s for 737s to cut costs Blue 1, based at Helsinki Vantaa, will phase out its remaining 
fleet of seven Boeing 717-200s before the end of 2015 replacing them with 737-600s parent SAS Scandinavian 
Airlines. Announcing a fiscal fourth-quarter net loss of SEK719 million (USD92.95 million), SAS president and CEO 
Rickard Gustafson said the Boeing 717's high unit costs had lead to the decision to switch to the 737. From autumn 
2015, SAS will move five Boeing 737 aircraft from bases in Oslo Gardermoen and Stockholm Arlanda to Blue 1. In 
addition, the recent conclusion of a new Collective Labour Agreement (CLA) with Blue 1 flight crews will allow the 
Finnish carrier to complete its transformation from a commercial airline focused on Finnish domestic traffic to a 
production company offering flexible wet-lease services to SAS. "The agreements make Blue 1 fully competitive 
compared with other wet-lease operators in the market. The exact type of production that will be carried out by Blue 
1 moving forward is currently being evaluated," the carrier said. Overall, structural changes at Blue 1 as well as at 
Cimber, which SAS recently agreed to acquire for DKK20 million (USD3.3 million), are expected to generate 
SEK250 million (USD32.32 million) in savings for SAS Group as a whole. In the medium term, SAS is aiming to 
make SEK2.1 billion (USD273.96 million) in cuts over the period 2015 to 2017 as pressure from European budget 
carriers such as Ryanair and local rival Norwegian (DY, Oslo Gardermoen) continues to mount. Having focussed on 
making SEK3 billion (USD387.8 million) in cost reductions between 2013 and 2015, the new drive will likely 
encounter stiff opposition from unions who in 2012 accused management of bullying them into accepting job cuts 
and lower wages. Mon, Dec 22, 2014
Pegasus Asia takes delivery of its first Boeing 737-800 Pegasus Asia, based at Bishkek, has at last taken delivery 
of its first Boeing 737-800 - EX-37801 (msn 38178). The former Pegasus Airlines aircraft was presented to the 
public in Bishkek on Friday, December 19. The Air Manas subsidiary, which also operates a 737-400, deployed the 
jet on flights to Osh beginning December 20 with plans to use it on routes to Russia as well as to Delhi Int'l and 
Urumqi in China. Mon, Dec 22, 2014
American looking at overhaul of business-class seats on 757s American Airlines is evaluating two types of 
business-class seats for its long-range Boeing 757s, one similar to what American has installed on its Airbus A321 
transcontinental aircraft and the other akin to what JetBlue Airways has put on its Mint subfleet. Mon, Dec 22, 2014
Air France-KLM to defer new Boeing 777s as earnings fall Air France and partner KLM Royal Dutch Airlines 
announced they will defer delivery of ten Boeing 777-300ERs as a result of their current financial year's earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) expected to take a EUR 200million (USD243 million) 
Company Watch - Boeing
knock due, in large part, to a devastating pilots strike in September and depressed international demand. The 
aircraft were to have been delivered over the next two years of which five were due in 2015. Presently, the two 
airlines combined operate a total of forty-five 777-300ERs. Mon, Dec 22, 2014
Malaysia Airlines receives its 100th Boeing 737 Malaysia Airlines received its 100th Boeing 737 jet, a Next-
Generation 737-800, is scheduled to arrive in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Malaysia took delivery of its first 737, a 737-
200, in 1972 and has operated the 737-200, 737-300, 737-400, 737-500 and 737-800 as well as 747-400s and 777-
200ERs (Extended Range). Malaysia Airlines' new 737-800 features the Boeing Sky Interior, with larger pivoting 
overhead stowage bins, larger window reveals and LED lighting to enhance the sense of spaciousness. Malaysia 
was the Asia launch customer for the Boeing Sky Interior. The airline has an additional 10 737-800s on order. Mon, 
Dec 22, 2014 1939-666X
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright © 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: January 8, 2015
End of Document
Ryanair adds three new routes to Athens summer 2015 schedule
Ryanair adds three new routes to Athens summer 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 29, 2014 Monday 5:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 368 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has added three new routes to its Athens summer 2015 schedule, to/from Budapest, 
Bratislava and Santorini.
Body
Ryanair's extended Athens Summer 2015 schedule will deliver: 1 new based aircraft (4 in total); 6 new routes: 
Budapest, Bratislava, Santorini (2 x daily), Brussels, Rome & Warsaw; 12 Athens routes in total; 161 weekly return 
flights; 1.1m new customers (2.2m customers p.a. in total); and support over 2,200 "on-site" jobs p.a. at Athens 
Airport. Greek customers and visitors can choose from 12 routes from Athens next summer, while enjoying 
allocated seating, a free 2nd carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new Greek website, a smartphone app with mobile 
boarding passes, and our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, making Ryanair the ideal choice for 
families, business and leisure travellers. Ryanair will also continue to connect Athens with Europe's major business 
centres, including Brussels (1 x daily), London (2 x daily) and Milan (10 x weekly) offering business customers the 
largest range of destinations at the lowest fares, with the most flights, improved schedules and best service, 
following the launch of Ryanair's tailored business product, Business Plus. 
In Athens, Ryanair's COO, David O'Brien said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce an additional three new Athens 
routes to Budapest, Bratislava and Santorini, as part of an extended Summer 2015 schedule, as we add another 
aircraft to Athens, bringing our investment to over $400m. "With a total of 12 exciting summer routes to choose 
from, including a double daily service to Santorini, Ryanair will double its Athens traffic to over 2.2m customers this 
year and sustain over 2,200 jobs. As Greece's fastest growing airline, we look forward to delivering further jobs, 
traffic and tourism growth across Greece." Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Greek 
consumers already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. 
Now they can also book their summer 2015 flights on our new Greek website and great new app, carry a free small 
2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their 
personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the 
lowest fares."
Ryanair adds three new routes to Athens summer 2015 schedule
Load-Date: January 4, 2015
End of Document
Stock take: market year
Stock take: market year
Sunday Business Post
December 28, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 500 words
Body
**Tullow Oil struggles due to oil price volatility**
   Tullow's share price has fallen 50 per cent year-to-date and 75 per cent from its record high. Is the stock now a 
buy? Most would agree that the price has broken anchor from its true value. However, with a weak oil price, large 
capex projects and a moribund asset market, investors are more concerned that Tullow can continue to fund its 
activities. Management has implemented a number of self-help measures, particularly the extension of debt 
facilities. We believe successful disposals would improve free cashflow generation and therefore be the mostly 
likely catalyst to allow the stock to outperform.  
*Caren Crowley, Davy analyst, in a research note in early December*
......................
**A busy December for Aer Lingus**
Aer Lingus had a busy December. The airline made huge steps towards drawing a close to its long-running pension 
woes, and then, just days later, its shares surged after news of a takeover bid by British Airways owner IAG 
emerged. In a brief statement, IAG confirmed that an offer had been made and rejected.    There can be no 
certainty that any further proposal or offer will be forthcoming,   it said.    A further statement will be made if and 
when appropriate.   A takeover of Aer Lingus would require the backing of the Irish government as well as Ryanair, 
as both are stakeholders in the company. Etihad Airways holds a minority stake.
......................
**Troubled year for retailer Tesco as warning is issued on full year profits**
Stock take: market year
Retailer Tesco had a troubled year, and earlier this month issued another warning on its full year profits. The 
supermarket chain's new chief executive Dave Lewis, took over in September and, on his first day, sent an email to 
staff.
   We are losing market share in our biggest market, and we need to address this with urgency . . .
We need to keep it simple and customer focused.  
*Dave Lewis, chief executive at Tesco, kicks off his reign*
......................
**Apple bounces back in 2014 with launch of iPhone 6**
Apple bounced back in 2014, with the launch of the iPhone 6, a move into the payments space via Apply Pay and 
its $3 billion acquisition of Beats Electronics.
Earlier this month, a Wall Street analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald's Brian White, wrote in a research note that the    stars 
are aligned for Apple to shine this holiday season  .
Last week, Apple boss Tim Cook emailed staff, saying that 2014 was an    unforgettable year  .
......................
**Associated British Foods kept afloat with Primark expansions**
Associated British Foods (ABF), the British sugar and ingredient company that also owns retailer Primark, was 
buoyed by expansion at Primark (Penneys in Ireland) in recent months. The company is continuing to open new 
Primark stores across Europe, and has its sights set on entry to the US market in 2015.
   Primark's trading success and significant expansion delivered another magnificent year.  
*George Weston, ABF chief executive, speaking last month*
Load-Date: December 29, 2014
End of Document
LOW-COST AIRLINES FLY HIGHER
LOW-COST AIRLINES FLY HIGHER
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
December 24, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: C; Pg. 10
Length: 43 words
Byline: THAO HUI
Body
ABSTRACT
Thao Hui Heard On the Street column on benefits of lower fuel prices for European budget airlines like Ryanair 
Holdings, for whom fuel accounts for larger  share of operating costs than among big carriers;  suggests valuations 
are still reasonable (M)
Load-Date: December 24, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches new website in US Ryanair US
Ryanair launches new website in US; Ryanair US
Business World (Digest)
December 23, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 195 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its new United States Ryanair website, targeting US customers travelling in 
Europe.
Body
Ryanair today launched its new United States Ryanair website, targeting US customers travelling in Europe.
Thousands of American customers explore Europe every year on Ryanair with London, Dublin, Barcelona, Rome 
and Paris the top five destinations for US customers, with the most visitors coming from California, New York, 
Texas, Florida and New Jersey.
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair is delighted to launch our new US website allowing even more American 
customers to book Europe's lowest fares directly on www.ryanair.com/us. American consumers know a great deal, 
so it's easy to see why they already choose Ryanair for our low fares and industry leading customer service, as well 
as Europe's biggest route network, connecting 189 destinations, in 30 countries, through over 1,600 routes. US 
customers can now book Ryanair's low fares in dollars and bring a free small second carry-on bag on board, enjoy 
"quiet flights", choose allocated seats and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, making 
Ryanair the ideal choice for European travel for families, friends and businesses across the United States."
For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 26, 2014
End of Document
Company Watch - Lufthansa
Company Watch - Lufthansa
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
December 22, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry News; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 385 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Company Watch) Sun, Dec 21, 2014
Lufthansa outlines initial "Jump" destinations Lufthansa has officially unveiled its planned "Jump" project network 
with Mexico, the Maldives, and Mauritius among its initial destinations. From September 25, it will serve Tampa Int'l 
five times weekly with a fleet of leisure-oriented A340-300s. Starting December 8, Lufthansa will also deploy the 
aircraft on 2x weekly flights from Frankfurt Int'l to Cancœn, MalŽ, and Mauritius. The aircraft, which will feature 298 
seats in Business, Premium Economy and Economy Class, will operate under Lufthansa CityLine's Air Operator 
Certificate. Thu, Dec 18, 2014
Ryanair to aggressively expand German network with Munich base Ryanair is planning to dramatically expand its 
German presence with the longterm aim of establishing a presence at at least twenty central German airports the 
budget carrier's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs, has said. "We will come to all your large airports except 
Frankfurt Int'l," he was quoted by the Wirtschaftswoche business journal. Among the airports in the LCC's 
immediate plans is Munich where, Jacobs said, preliminary talks have already been held with operator Flughafen 
MŸnchen GmbH over the possible establishment of a base. Potential operations could see "double-digit" flight 
frequencies. "We just recently held talks in Munich and the only thing really missing is suitable take-off slots," he 
said. Ryanair currently serves Munich via its secondary airfield, Memmingen. The move is more bad news for 
Lufthansa which has struggled against Ryanair, easyJet and Wizz Air in the battle for the European regional 
market. In a bid to reclaim lost business, the German carrier has unveiled plans to develop its Eurowings subsidiary 
into a budget operation with initial bases to focus on Germany, Switzerland, and Austria before expanding further 
afield. Tue, Dec 16, 2014 1939-666X
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright © 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: January 19, 2015
Company Watch - Lufthansa
End of Document
Aer Lingus confirms pitch from British Airways parent
Aer Lingus confirms pitch from British Airways parent
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
December 21, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 251 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Sun, Dec 21, 2014 - Aer Lingus has confirmed that it 
received a proposal from the International Airlines Group (IAG) - parent to British Airways, Vueling Airlines, and 
Iberia - early last week only to reject it. In a filing to the Dublin Stock Exchange, the Irish carrier said it had rejected 
the "preliminary, highly conditional and non-binding approach" from the IAG on the grounds that "it fundamentally 
undervalues Aer Lingus and its attractive prospects." While neither party disclosed the value of the pitch made, the 
Irish Times quotes industry sources as saying it was 'around' EUR1billion (USD1.21billion). Aer Lingus' counts the 
Irish government and rival Ryanair as shareholders with 25% and 29.8% stakes respectively. Following a lengthy 
court process, the latter was earlier this year directed to cut its stake in Aer Lingus to below 5% - a directive it has 
moved to contest. Ryanair has, however, said it would be willing to dispose of its shareholding to any European 
airline that had the backing of 50.1% or more of Aer Lingusâ€™s shareholders.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: January 16, 2015
End of Document
'Irland boomt!' say Germans
'Irland boomt!' say Germans
Sunday Business Post
December 21, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 208 words
Body
   Irland boomt!   as they say in Germany. That country's stock exchange has singled out Irish equities as top 
performers in 2014, citing various analysts and noting the gains achieved by investors in Bank of Ireland, Ryanair 
and Kerry Group.
In a research note issued last week - that it cautioned was not a buy recommendation - the German stock exchange 
operator Deutsche Boerse said Ireland's projected 4.6 per cent growth rate in 2014 highlighted what a country could 
achieve through    serious reform  .
Its stock exchange has tripled in value since March 2009, and gained another 11 per cent in the year to date, the 
note said.
Bank of Ireland shares have tripled in value - since the start of 2012. The bank, the note said, is    leaving the crisis 
behind  .
Ryanair shareholders are doing even better, it said.    Since October in particular [Ryanair] is rising steeply... all 
eight current recommendations from banks and analysts are to buy.  
Kerry Group shares have doubled in value since 2012, the note said.
And, on the basis of the latest assessment by Standard & Poor's rating agency, average growth of 3.5 per cent can 
be expected through to 2017.
   Irland boomt,   (Ireland is booming) said the note.    From problem child to model student.  
Load-Date: December 29, 2014
'Irland boomt!' say Germans
End of Document
Aer Lingus : the shareholder saga
Aer Lingus: the shareholder saga
Sunday Business Post
December 21, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 408 words
Body
**November 17, 2004:**CEO of Aer Lingus Willie Walsh announces he is resigning. Taoiseach Bertie Ahern 
accuses him of wanting to    steal   Aer Lingus assets and    shaft the interests of the staff  .
**October 2, 2006:**Aer Lingus floated on the Irish and London stock exchanges, with the Irish government 
maintaining a 28 per cent shareholding and employees holding 15 per cent. Ryanair starts to acquire a substantial 
number of shares in Aer Lingus.
**November 29, 2006:**Ryanair confirms it has increased its stake in Aer Lingus to 26.2 per cent.
**December 21, 2006:**Ryanair withdraws its bid, but says it intends to pursue another bid in the near future.
**June 27, 2007:**the European Commission declares the takeover bid incompatible with EU competition rules. 
Ryanair challenges the decision and also brings its shareholding up to 29.8 per cent.
**November 19, 2007:**Aer Lingus Group files a lawsuit in the European Court of First Instance, hoping to force 
Ryanair to sell its 29.8 per cent holding.
**December 1, 2008:**Ryanair launches a second bid for Aer Lingus, making a EUR 748 million all-cash offer. The 
Aer Lingus board rejects the offer and advises shareholders to take no action.
**January 30, 2009:**Ryanair withdraws its bid.
**June 19, 2012:**Ryanair launches its third bid for Aer Lingus at EUR 1.30 a share, which values the airline at 
approximately EUR 694 million.
**August 16, 2012:**Etihad Airways says it is interested in buying Ryanair's stake in Aer Lingus. It also expresses 
interest in the government's 25.1 per cent stake.
Aer Lingus : the shareholder saga
**August 28, 2013:**the British Competition Commission tells Ryanair to sell all but 5 per cent of its 29.8 per cent 
stake in Aer Lingus.
**July 23, 2013:**Ryanair offers to sell its 29 per cent stake in Aer Lingus to any EU airline that makes an offer for a 
50.1 per cent stake in the airline and receives acceptances from a majority of shareholders.
**March 19, 2014:**for the second time in two weeks, Etihad ups its stake in Aer Lingus, bringing its share in the 
airline to 4.11 per cent.
**July 18, 2014:**Christoph Mueller announces plan to step down as CEO and director of Aer Lingus in May 2015.
**November 5, 2014:**Aer Lingus staff vote to accept proposals to address the company's pension scheme deficit 
of EUR 707 million after three years of negotiations.
**December 18, 2014:**British Airways owner IAG confirms that the Irish airline had rejected an initial takeover 
offer.
*Colette Sexton*
Load-Date: December 29, 2014
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
December 21, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 640 words
Body
**Dalata to buy popular hotel chain**
Irish hotel operator Dalata has struck a deal to acquire the Moran Bewley's Hotel Group for EUR 455 million.
The deal, which is subject to shareholder and Competition and Consumer Protection Commission approval, will see 
Dalata acquire a portfolio of nine hotels across Ireland and Britain.
Dalata's chief executive, Pat McCann, said the acquisition was    a transformational development   for the company.    
It is a business we have admired for a long time and the acquisition is a rare opportunity to acquire a large well-
invested portfolio of hotels,   he said.
.......................................
**Tidying up the finances**
As 2014 draws to a close, both the National Treasury Management Agency (NTMA) and Nama have been getting 
their houses in order.
Last Thursday, Minister for Finance Michael Noonan announced that the NTMA had completed the early repayment 
of EUR 9 billion of IMF loans.
The early repayment, which represents nearly 40 per cent of Ireland's EUR 22.5 billion IMF loan, will save more 
than EUR 150 million in interest payments in 2015 and EUR 750 million over the lifetime of the IMF loans, Noonan 
said.
Meanwhile, Nama's chief executive, Brendan McDonagh, told the Public Accounts Committee last week that the 
agency had repaid 55 per cent of its outstanding senior debt two years ahead of schedule and plans to redeem 80 
per cent of the debt by 2016.
Boardroom Briefing
   Our faster-than-anticipated progress on the debt redemption has been made possible by the major improvement 
in conditions in the Irish commercial property market over the past 18 months and the depth of investor capital 
being deployed towards Ireland,   McDonagh said.
.......................................
**Stock exchange starts ISO scheme**
The Irish Stock Exchange (ISE) has announced a major new programme aimed at companies that are on course for 
a stock market listing within the next five years.
The programme, #IPOready, will provide IPO candidates with structured support to equip them with skills in capital 
raising, investor relations and business management.
The programme is being run in conjunction with Dublin City University and ACG business mentors, and is being 
supported by Enterprise Ireland and Invest Northern Ireland.
The programme will begin in March 2015 and will be delivered in three phases over 15 months. The closing date for 
applications is Friday, January 30, and successful applicants will be announced at the end of February.
Aileen O'Donoghue, director of strategy at the ISE, said that listing on public markets    brings enormous benefits 
for successful companies  .
   We want to make it easier for companies with potential to scale to follow in the footsteps of Ireland's biggest 
corporate success stories such as Kerry Group, Ryanair and Paddy Power,   she said.
.......................................
**New boss at PwC**
Feargal O'Rourke has been appointed managing partner at PwC Ireland, and will take over the role on July 1 next 
year. O'Rourke, who is currently head of tax services at the accountancy firm, was one of three partners in the 
competition for the top job, beating audit partners John McDonnell and Andrew O'Callaghan.
O'Rourke, the son of former Fianna Fáil politician Mary O'Rourke, has been a partner in PwC since 1996 and is a 
key figure in multinational tax policy.
.......................................
**New Revenue chair is named**
The Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan, has announced that Niall Cody is to take over from Josephine Feehily as 
chairman of the Revenue Commissioners.
Cody, who has been a Revenue Commissioner since 2012, will take up his position on February 1. Noonan said 
that since 2012 Cody had responsibility    at board level for Revenue's tax policy and legislation divisions as well as 
Large Cases Division and the Collector General's Division  .
Load-Date: December 29, 2014
End of Document
Government should cash in on Aer Lingus
Government should cash in on Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
December 21, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT
Length: 540 words
Body
What is the actual purpose of the Irish government retaining a 25 per cent shareholding in Aer Lingus? Is it to 
prevent the national carrier being taken over by a multinational? Or to impose some class of moral authority over 
the company's boardroom? Or is it merely a legacy issue, a throwback to a not-too-distant time when a Bertie 
Ahern-led government sought to mollify unions through a policy of industrial appeasement?
The answer is, sadly, the last. The unexpected and audacious bid by IAG, the owner of British Airways, for Aer 
Lingus has once again brought the ownership and future of the Irish national carrier into play.
The board of Aer Lingus quickly dismissed the bid, arguing that it fundamentally undervalued the company. But that 
will not be the end of it. Analysts now believe that IAG, headed by the former Aer Lingus boss Willie Walsh, will 
return to the table with an improved offer. There is also the potential for other trade players to enter the process if 
they believe that Aer Lingus could be acquired.
Ryanair, which holds a hefty 29.9 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, has not yet said whether it would be willing to sell its 
stake. However, in the past, the low-fares carrier has said that it would be willing to deal in the event that its 
takeover attempt was unsuccessful. With anti-trust regulators loath to let Ryanair mop up its Irish rival, the feeling is 
that Michael O'Leary would be happy to sell - albeit at the right price.
The Irish government should do likewise. A 25 per cent shareholder is neither here nor there: large enough to 
spook the markets, but too small to influence any real policy change. For example, despite the government voting 
against it, Aer Lingus chief executive Christoph Mueller still received his pay package and pension increase earlier 
this year. Indeed, there is a school of thought that the government only voted against it because it knew the motion 
would be carried. The most important thing is this: in the modern age, there is no compelling reason for the state to 
be owning or running airlines. There are enough other people interested in doing it.
Government should cash in on Aer Lingus
If IAG returns with an increased bid at the right price, the government should sell. But as part of that deal, it should 
seek assurances that flights between Britain and Ireland will continue, while also seeking assurances regarding Aer 
Lingus's most prized asset: precious landing slots at Heathrow.
Walsh, who once sought to buy Aer Lingus from the inside, is now trying to do it from the outside. In reality, he 
wants the airline for its Heathrow slots and the additional capacity. Aer Lingus is valued at around EUR 1 billion, 
with a successful bid likely to have to pay a 20 per cent premium, according to analysts. That would allow the 
government to walk away with almost EUR 300 million.
Aer Lingus has performed strongly in recent years under the shrewd leadership of Mueller. But the airline market is 
cyclical; the carrier will have to spend heavily in the latter part of this decade to upgrade its fleet, with Davy 
Stockbrokers noting last week that this challenges cashflow generation without a substantial improvement in its 
operating performance. If the offer is right, now is the time to sell.
*letters@sbpost.ie*
Load-Date: December 29, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus shuns takeover bid by former chief Walsh Audacious move by British Airways owner IAG 
'undervalues' Irish carrier
Aer Lingus shuns takeover bid by former chief Walsh; Audacious move by 
British Airways owner IAG 'undervalues' Irish carrier
Financial Times (London, England)
December 19, 2014 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1
Length: 432 words
Byline: Jane Wild and Arash Massoudi
Body
Ireland's Aer Lingus has rejected an audacious takeover bid from its former chief executive Willie Walsh , who now 
runs British Airways owner IAG, thwarting his desire to expand one of Europe's biggest airline operators.
The Irish flag carrier said that an approach on Sunday from IAG, which was formed by the 2011 merger of BA and 
Spain's Iberia, "fundamentally undervalued" Aer Lingus.
Shares in Aer Lingus rose as much as 20 per cent after the bid was first reported by the Financial Times, prompting 
BA's owner to confirm that it had made an offer.
Aer Lingus shares closed 8.8 per cent higher at EUR1.98.
The bid comes amid frantic efforts by legacy European carriers, including Germany's Lufthansa and Air France-
KLM, to combat the growing threat from low-cost operators such as Ryanair and easyJet on short-haul routes and 
from rich gulf airlines on long-haul flights.
Acquiring Aer Lingus would give IAG valuable take-off and landing slots at the highly congested Heathrow airport, 
BA's main base, and give the airline greater scale.
Aer Lingus shuns takeover bid by former chief Walsh Audacious move by British Airways owner IAG 
'undervalues' Irish carrier
One person familiar with the matter said the offer valued shares in Aer Lingus at EUR2.20 each, giving it a valuation 
of EUR1.16bn. Both companies declined to comment beyond their public statements.
Any deal would require the backing of Ryanair, which holds a 29.9 per cent stake in the rival carrier. The low-cost 
airline has been ordered to sell the stake by UK competition authorities, but is appealing against that decision.
The Irish government, which also has a 25 per cent holding, would be likely to seek assurances that flights between 
the UK and Ireland would continue. A deal would also require regulatory approval by Brussels.
The Irish carrier has the third-largest number of take-off and landing slots with 23 pairs at Heathrow, behind BA and 
Virgin. One analyst valued a pair of slots at EUR15m. Aer Lingus had net cash of about EUR381m in November.
Credit Suisse analysts said the IAG bid could be seen as a defensive reaction to Aer Lingus's desire to siphon off 
transatlantic traffic.
The dramatic drop in oil prices has provided relief to airlines and boosted shares but they remain under pressure. 
Yesterday, Air France-KLM issued a profit warning, blaming the disappointing performance from its long-haul 
business.
Aer Lingus is a former member of the BA-led Oneworld alliance. But the closest link remains Mr Walsh, the chief 
executive of IAG, who has held the same role at both BA and Aer Lingus.
Additional reporting by Vincent Boland in Dublin, and Mark Odell and Neil Hume in London
Lex page 16 Walsh eyes up Aer Lingus page 18 Lombard page 22
Load-Date: December 18, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus shuns takeover bid by former chief Walsh Audacious move by British Airways owner IAG 
'undervalues' Irish carrier
Aer Lingus shuns takeover bid by former chief Walsh; Audacious move by 
British Airways owner IAG 'undervalues' Irish carrier
Financial Times (London, England)
December 19, 2014 Friday
London Edition 2
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1
Length: 434 words
Byline: Jane Wild and Arash Massoudi
Body
Ireland's Aer Lingus has rejected an audacious takeover bid from its former chief executive Willie Walsh , who now 
runs British Airways' owner IAG, thwarting his desire to expand one of Europe's biggest airline operators.
The Irish flag carrier said that an approach on Sunday from IAG, which was formed by the 2011 merger of BA and 
Spain's Iberia, "fundamentally undervalued" Aer Lingus.
Shares in Aer Lingus rose as much as 20 per cent after the bid was first reported by the Financial Times, prompting 
BA's owner to confirm that it had made an offer.
Aer Lingus shares closed 8.8 per cent higher at EUR1.98.
The bid comes amid frantic efforts by legacy European carriers, including Germany's Lufthansa and Air France-
KLM, to combat the growing threat from low-cost operators such as Ryanair and easyJet on short-haul routes and 
from rich Gulf airlines on long-haul flights.
Acquiring Aer Lingus would give IAG valuable take-off and landing slots at the highly congested Heathrow airport, 
BA's main base, and give the airline greater scale.
Aer Lingus shuns takeover bid by former chief Walsh Audacious move by British Airways owner IAG 
'undervalues' Irish carrier
One person familiar with the matter said that the offer valued shares in Aer Lingus at EUR2.20 each, giving it a 
valuation of EUR1.16bn. Both companies declined to comment beyond their public statements.
Any deal would require the backing of Ryanair, which holds a 29.9 per cent stake in the rival carrier. The low-cost 
airline has been ordered to sell the stake by UK competition authorities, but is appealing against that decision.
The Irish government, which also has a 25 per cent holding, would be likely to seek assurances that flights between 
the UK and Ireland would continue. A deal would also require regulatory approval by Brussels.
The Irish carrier has the third-largest number of take-off and landing slots with 23 pairs at Heathrow, behind BA and 
Virgin. One analyst valued a pair of slots at EUR15m. Aer Lingus had net cash of about EUR381m in November.
Credit Suisse analysts said that the IAG bid could be seen as a defensive reaction to Aer Lingus's desire to siphon 
off transatlantic traffic.
The dramatic drop in oil prices has provided relief to airlines and boosted shares but they remain under pressure. 
Yesterday, Air France-KLM issued a profit warning, blaming the disappointing performance from its long-haul 
business.
Aer Lingus is a former member of the BA-led Oneworld alliance. But the closest link remains Mr Walsh, the chief 
executive of IAG, who has held the same role at both BA and Aer Lingus.
Additional reporting by Vincent Boland in Dublin, and Mark Odell and Neil Hume in London
Lex page 16 Walsh eyes up Aer Lingus page 18 Lombard page 22
Load-Date: December 18, 2014
End of Document
IAG and Aer Lingus : luck of the Irish
IAG and Aer Lingus: luck of the Irish
Financial Times (London, England)
December 19, 2014 Friday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 16
Length: 399 words
Body
It is an old trick. Executives moving jobs often return to their old stamping ground to pick up favoured employees or 
clients. Far rarer, though, for them to return for the entire company. Willie Walsh , chief executive of Aer Lingus 
from 2001 to 2005, is proposing to do just that. The Irish airline has knocked back Mr Walsh, who is now chief 
executive of IAG. But he may be back.
The prize for Mr Walsh is not staff or customers but landing slots at London's Heathrow airport. Aer Lingus controls 
23 slots there. IAG already has six slots on the Dublin-Heathrow route but over time it could reallocate them to more 
profitable routes. Aer Lingus also has access to seven slots at Gatwick.
On its undisturbed price the Irish airline had a market value of EUR970m. Set against that is net cash of nearly 
EUR381m. Assume a 30 per cent premium to the undisturbed price and IAG would be getting these slots for 
EUR827m (or EUR29m per slot). That is not cheap - other deals have valued Heathrow slots at half of that.
Mr Walsh might be able to squeeze out some cost savings to make the price look more attractive - maybe. Aer 
Lingus made operating margins of 21 per cent in the third quarter. All of IAG's brands - BA, Iberia and Vueling - 
have margins below that. But Aer Lingus would definitely benefit from rejoining the Oneworld alliance which it left in 
2008, as it would gain added routes into the US and elsewhere.
Even if it offers a chunky premium, though, IAG might struggle to get the deal over the line. The Irish government 
owns 25 per cent and it might balk at letting its flag carrier be taken over by a multinational, even one controlled by 
an Irishman.
IAG and Aer Lingus : luck of the Irish
If the Irish government kicks up a fuss, Mr Walsh will have to get to work on the other shareholders. Ryanair, which 
owns 30 per cent of Aer Lingus, should be easier to convince. It has been ordered by UK competition authorities to 
sell its stake down to 5 per cent (although it is appealing against the ruling). The stake is in Ryanair's books at 
EUR1.42, although when it started building it up in 2006 it paid an average of EUR2.42. After jumping on news of 
the bid interest, Aer Lingus shares are now trading at EUR1.98.
Etihad, the UAE airline that owns 5 per cent of Aer Lingus, might be more equivocal. Given that it has taken control 
of Air Berlin and Alitalia, it might be happy to let Mr Walsh finish the job he started in 2001.
Load-Date: December 18, 2014
End of Document
Walsh eyes chance to soak up Aer Lingus potential Travel & leisure
Walsh eyes chance to soak up Aer Lingus potential; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
December 19, 2014 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 18
Length: 615 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger in London and Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
Willie Walsh has come a long way since he joined Aer Lingus to train as a pilot at the age of 17. Yesterday it 
emerged that the man who is now running IAG, one of the world's top 10 airline groups and the parent of British 
Airways and Iberia, wants to take over his old employer.
Mr Walsh's approach was made on Sunday night. Within two days, Ireland's flag carrier rebuffed his offer. But few 
doubt that the tenacious Mr Walsh will be back. He has his eye, not just on the lucrative slots that Aer Lingus has at 
Britain's Heathrow airport - where it is the third-largest carrier - but on the potential to soak up some of the 
transatlantic opportunities that a combination with Aer Lingus would present.
"Aer Lingus has been expanding quite aggressively on the Atlantic over the past year or so," says Jonathan Wober, 
analyst with the Capa Centre for Aviation. He points out that its transatlantic routes via Dublin offer pre-take-off 
customs clearance for the US - enticing passengers who want to avoid the lengthy queues at the other end.
For Gerald Khoo, aviation analyst at Liberum, Aer Lingus could also help BA to make better use of its routes out of 
Heathrow. Given Aer Lingus's customs clearance advantage, BA could transfer some traffic via Dublin, opening up 
the possibility of using some of its London routes for other purposes. There is also the enticement that Aer Lingus is 
"a profitable airline with a lower cost base" - a more attractive proposition than Iberia was at the time of the merger 
with BA in 2011.
Walsh eyes chance to soak up Aer Lingus potential Travel & leisure
Mr Walsh has timed his approach well. IAG has turned round Iberia, and would be likely to win the support of 
investors for another acquisition.
Indeed, the IAG model was specifically designed to accommodate further acquisitions. In addition, this is at a 
vulnerable moment for the Irish carrier. Christoph Mueller , the Irish airline's highly regarded chief executive, is set 
to step down by next May; his successor has yet to be appointed. One person in Dublin said yesterday that an 
announcement could be made on the succession by the end of the year.
The 30 per cent stake held by Ryanair has been in effect on the market for months after regulators ordered it to sell 
the holding, following three failed takeover attempts. Aer Lingus has also been locked in negotiations with trade 
unions over how to close the EUR750m hole in the pension scheme it runs along with the Dublin Airport Authority. 
This deficit has long seen as a deterrent to any prospective buyer, apart from Ryanair - although the problem 
moved a step closer to resolution last week after shareholders voted for the airline to make a one-off payment of 
EUR191m to fund the scheme.
Aer Lingus's underlying business, however, is strong after a painful turnround. It said last month that its operating 
profit for 2014 would be ahead of earlier expectations for no change from last year. Its financial position has been 
bolstered by a strong performance in its long-haul routes, which saw revenue rise by more than a third in the three 
months to September, with new routes from Dublin to San Francisco and Toronto. A new route to Washington DC is 
also to come into service next year.
But any sale of Aer Lingus to a rival airline will depend in the end on the attitude of the Irish government. Though 
ministers are keen to reverse some of the forced nationalisations that occurred during the financial crisis, Aer 
Lingus does not fall into that category. And now that the airline's finances have recovered, ministers may feel under 
no pressure to sell the state's stake.
Ireland's transport ministry said yesterday that IAG's approach "is a matter for the board in the first instance".
Lex page 16 Lombard page 22
Load-Date: December 18, 2014
End of Document
British Airways owner rejected by Aer Lingus
British Airways owner rejected by Aer Lingus
City A.M.
December 19, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 175 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON
Body
IRISH flag carrier Aer Lingus yesterday revealed that it had knocked back an offer from international rival IAG, 
owner of British Airways.
Despite the knock-back, IAG is expected to come back with an improved offer, which could be supported by 
Ryanair. The budget carrier is a major shareholder in Aer Lingus, although it may soon be forced by the UK 
Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) to reduce its 29 per cent stake to five per cent. Ryanair is appealing this 
order, which was issued by the CMA's predecessor, the Competition Commission, in August 2013. A result is 
expected within the next few weeks.
Ryanair has made three previous attempts to take over Aer Lingus itself, most recently in 2012. After that bid failed, 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary described Aer Lingus as a "Mickey Mouse airline".
Aer Lingus, which was previously led by IAG chief executive Willie Walsh, said yesterday that it had received a 
"preliminar y, highly conditional and non-binding approach from IAG". It said the offer "fundamentally undervalues 
Aer Lingus."
Graphic
 
Controversial Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary
British Airways owner rejected by Aer Lingus
Load-Date: December 19, 2014
End of Document
Airline SAS feels pressure from budget carriers
Airline SAS feels pressure from budget carriers
City A.M.
December 19, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 22
Length: 116 words
Byline: TOM BECK
Body
SCANDINAVIAN airline SAS has announced a set of disappointing financial results for the fourth financial quarter 
and the full year.
These results included a loss of 575m kroner for the year, with 352m of that figure coming in the fourth quarter 
alone.
As a result, the company will now implement its sixth savings plan in the past twelve years. Reasons for the 
company's lack of success have primarily been attributed to intense competition from other airline services that 
cater to the Scandinavian region such as Ryanair and Norwegian Air.
The company, which is 50 per cent owned by Denmark, Norway and Sweden, has also announced nine new 
routes, including one from Stockholm to Hong Kong, for 2015.
Graphic
 
Airline SAS is feeling the heat from rival carriers
Load-Date: December 19, 2014
Airline SAS feels pressure from budget carriers
End of Document
Aer Lingus rejects bid by British Airways parent
Aer Lingus rejects bid by British Airways parent
Associated Press Financial Wire
December 18, 2014 Thursday 6:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 382 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Irish airline Aer Lingus has rejected a takeover bid by the International Consolidated Airlines Group, 
the parent company of British Airways and Spain's Iberia.
Shares in the Dublin-based carrier surged by as much as 21 percent Thursday amid rumors of a bid. Those gains 
were sharply pared after IAG issued a statement confirming its proposal had been rejected by the Aer Lingus board, 
but the stock still finished Dublin trading up 9 percent at a seven-year high of 1.99 euros ($2.45).
Aer Lingus described the IAG offer as "preliminary, highly conditional and non-binding" and said it "fundamentally 
undervalues Aer Lingus and its attractive prospects."
No price details of Sunday's offer were disclosed. Aer Lingus rejected the offer two days later.
Analysts long have seen IAG as a likely bidder for Aer Lingus. Its Irish chief executive, Willie Walsh, was previously 
chief executive of Aer Lingus before the formerly state-owned airline's 2006 privatization.
Aer Lingus operates a substantial European short-haul network and a half-dozen routes to the United States. In 
recent years it has struggled to compete with larger Dublin-based rival Ryanair, which has mounted three failed 
takeover bids. Ryanair remains Aer Lingus' largest shareholder with a 30 percent stake, while the Irish government 
has retained 25 percent.
Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways has stoked speculation that it hopes to acquire Aer Lingus by building a 5 percent 
stake in the past two years and striking a code-sharing agreement.
Any successful bidder would win coveted slots at Heathrow in London, the highest-demand airport in Europe. Aer 
Lingus holds the fourth largest number of slots at Heathrow, a strategic hub for trans-Atlantic travel.
Aer Lingus has struggled to record consistent profits since its flotation, hampered by frequent clashes with its 
unionized work force and unrelenting demands to reduce the deficit in its pension pot. To compete, it adopted many 
of the trading practices of Ryanair, reducing short-haul frills and adding charges for everything from bags to credit 
card use.
Aer Lingus rejects bid by British Airways parent
Last month Aer Lingus reported its best quarterly profit since 2008 and raised its full-year outlook, citing strong 
performance of trans-Atlantic services, including on two new routes to Toronto and San Francisco.
Load-Date: December 19, 2014
End of Document
ISE scheme to help firm list on Exchange IPO Scheme
ISE scheme to help firm list on Exchange; IPO Scheme
Business World (Digest)
December 18, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 316 words
Highlight: The Irish Stock Exchange (ISE) today announced a major new programme aimed at companies that are 
on course for a stock market listing (initial public offering or IPO) in the next 5 years.
Body
The Irish Stock Exchange (ISE) today announced a major new programme aimed at companies that are on course 
for a stock market listing (initial public offering or IPO) in the next 5 years.
The scheme will be launched on 15 January 2015.
The #IPOready programme, which is supported by Enterprise Ireland and Invest Northern Ireland, will provide IPO 
candidate companies with a structured support programme to equip them with crucial skills in capital raising, 
investor relations and business management. The programme is being run in conjunction with DCU and ACG 
business mentors.
#IPOready will provide extensive support over 15 months to prepare successful applicants for the requirements of 
listing on the ISE and attracting investment from domestic and international shareholders. It will include lectures 
from corporate finance experts, investment practitioners and academics from DCU; coaching from mentors; and 
advice from senior ISE figures, entrepreneurs and leaders from Irish quoted companies. Aileen O'Donoghue, 
Director of Strategy at the ISE, said: "Listing on public markets brings enormous benefits for successful companies. 
Companies that have listed on the ISE raised  23.5bn between 2004 and 2013. Eight new companies have listed 
successfully in the past two years. This programme is designed to support more Irish companies to become IPO 
ready." "We want to make it easier for companies with potential to scale to follow in the footsteps of Ireland's 
biggest corporate success stories such as Kerry Group, Ryanair and Paddy Power. We're looking for ambitious 
companies to come to the market and this programme will give them the skills they need to take their business to 
the next level as a successful quoted company. Our aim is to build a strong pipeline of high-quality companies with 
the business and the skills to prosper on the public markets." For more visit www.businessworld.ie
ISE scheme to help firm list on Exchange IPO Scheme
Load-Date: December 23, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus Rejects IAG Takeover Bid
Aer Lingus Rejects IAG Takeover Bid
RTT News (United States)
December 18, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 270 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish airline Aer Lingus on Thursday said it has rejected a takeover offer from British Airways parent 
company International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG.L, ICAGY.PK).
Aer Lingus, based in Dublin, said it received a preliminary, highly conditional and non-binding offer from IAG on 
Sunday and rejected the proposal on Tuesday, as the offer fundamentally undervalues Aer Lingus and its attractive 
prospects.
Following the announcement, Aer Lingus shares gained 12 percent on the London Stock Exchange.
Meanwhile, IAG said it has noted the recent movement in the share price of Aer Lingus and confirms it submitted a 
proposal to make an offer for the company, which has been since been rejected.
IAG said there can be no certainty that any further proposal or offer will be forthcoming.
A bid to buy Aer Lingus needs the approval of the Irish government, which has about 25 percent stake in the airline, 
and also of Ryanair, which has a near 30 percent stake and had made unsuccessful offers to acquire Aer Lingus.
IAG, a leading global airline group, reported revenue of 15.2 billion euros in the first nine months of 2014, up 7.4 
percent from last year. Smaller airline Aer Lingus reported passenger and cargo revenue of 1.23 billion euros in its 
nine month period, up 9.3 percent from a year ago.
AERL.L closed Thursday at 2.04 pence, up 0.22 pence or 12.15%, on a volume of 2.6 million shares on the LSE.
IAG.L closed at 463.50 pence, up 19.90 pence or 4.49%, on a volume of 12 million shares on the LSE.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 18, 2014
End of Document
BA owners may bid for Aer Lingus A Lingus Buy
BA owners may bid for Aer Lingus; A Lingus Buy
Business World (Digest)
December 18, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 155 words
Highlight: Shares in Aer Lingus surged higher today, as the Financial Times reported that British Airways-owner 
International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) was considering a takeover bid.
Body
Shares in Aer Lingus surged higher today, as the Financial Times reported that British Airways-owner International 
Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) was considering a takeover bid.
Aer Lingus shares traded up 14 percent at 1439 GMT while shares in IAG - which also runs Iberia and Vueling - 
were up by 3.3 percent, after the Financial Times story, which cited "people familiar with the situation".
Buying Aer Lingus would give IAG additional slots at Heathrow Airport, the main British Airways hub in London 
which is operating close to its capacity.
Officials at IAG and Aer Lingus could not be immediately reached for comment. Any acquisition of Aer Lingus would 
need the backing of budget Irish carrier Ryanair which owns a 29.9 percent stake in Aer Lingus after three failed 
takeover attempts and the Irish government which owns 25 percent of carrier. No one at Ryanair was available to 
comment. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 23, 2014
End of Document
The low-frills, long-haul gamble FT BIG READ: AIR TRAVEL
The low-frills, long-haul gamble; FT BIG READ: AIR TRAVEL
Financial Times (London, England)
December 18, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: ANALYSIS; Pg. 11
Length: 2179 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: Many airlines have tried but none has succeeded in carving out a business model that makes a profit 
from flying long-distance routes at cut-price fares. Will Norwegian Air be any different? By Jane Wild
Body
The destinations are unremarkable: New York, Los Angeles, Fort Lauderdale. But, if successful, the gamble 
Norwegian Air Shuttle is taking would transform the business model for long-haul travel .
From last winter, passengers boarding one of the airline's Boeing Dreamliners at Copenhagen have been able to fly 
direct to these US cities using tickets half the price offered by larger rivals.
Europe's third-biggest budget airline is not the first to bet on a low-cost long-haul business: think Sir Freddie Laker 
in the 1970s and more recently Air Asia. But Norwegian believes the advent of a new generation of fuel-efficient 
aircraft - shrinking a fuel bill that can account for up to half an airline's operating costs - makes the enterprise viable.
"It is key," says Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian chief executive, of the importance of the Dreamliner to his operation. "We did 
our mathematics on other types of aircraft and it couldn't add up."
The fall in oil prices since the summer will help the calculation, although many airlines hedge their spending on fuel. 
But Norwegian has also incurred millions in costs stemming from problems with the Dreamliner , and Mr Kjos says it 
is too early to say whether the technical problems are over.
Stretching the low-cost modelto profitably operate intercontinental flights would open a new chapter in aviation.
The low-frills, long-haul gamble FT BIG READ: AIR TRAVEL
"The low-cost model, short-haul, has been so phenomenally successful that on the surface it seems an obvious 
idea to apply that model in long-haul," says James Stamp, global head of aviation at KPMG. "There have been a 
number of unsuccessful attempts, as structural reasons make replicating the model difficult.
"But if someone could crack it and establish a niche, the example set by the low-cost carriers that started early is 
that they have tended to become dominant and hard to displace."
The original budget operators such as the US carrier Southwest Airlines in the 1970s, and then Ryanair and 
easyJet in Europe in the 1990s, revolutionised short haul air travel - making flying suddenly affordable for millions of 
people. The model of selling cheap air fares was a winner and the rapid growth of the new kids on the block rocked 
the established players, luring away their customers and forcing them to slash costs in response.
Some are hoping to have a similar impact in the long-haul end of the business. Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's 
combative chief executive, has made no secret of his desire to offer rock-bottom fares across the Atlantic, if only the 
aircraft could be bought at a price that would make an attractive deal.
"There is an opportunity for someone to do a transatlantic, low fares airline in long-haul," says Mr O'Leary. "We'd be 
very interested in doing it, if I could get some long-haul fleet cheaply."
For it to work, he believes a fleet of dozens of aircraft would be needed to link US cities with parts of Europe. 
However, analysts suggest the fact that the Ryanair boss has not yet done it speaks volumes for how difficult the 
long-haul market is. Norwegian Air, launched just over 20 years ago, has invested huge sums in the past year on a 
fleet of seven Dreamliners, which will rise to 17 by 2018. The list price of a 787-8 used by Norwegian is $218.3m, 
although typically airlines secure a substantial discount.
The operation on the ground looks anything but revolutionary. At Copenhagen airport, a 787 rests by a terminal as 
maintenance crew bustle through the aircraft. Inside, 32 grey padded seats make up a premium cabin, with 259 
less upholstered seats further back.
Aside from Copenhagen, Norwegian also runs long-haul flights out of Oslo, Stockholm and London Gatwick. The 
scale is small: at Gatwick there are two services a week to Los Angeles and Fort Lauderdale, and three to New 
York. It is a similar picture in Oslo and Stockholm. The competition is daunting. British Airways alone flies 16 times 
a day out of London to New York.
Making the routes pay 
Norwegian's calculation is that it can make its long-haul service profitablein spite of widespread scepticism.
The cost of flying an aeroplane from New York to London on a 787-9, the Dreamliner model Norwegian has on 
order, is roughly $90,000 one way, says one industry figure. That includes fuel, crew, maintenance, navigation and 
landing fees, ground handling and ownership or lease costs - but not sales, marketing, distribution, back office, 
other overheads or profit margin. Taxes and non-fuel charges are passed directly to the passenger.
If that aircraft had 354 seats like the 787-9 and typical load factors - a measure of how full planes are - for low-cost 
airlines, a year-round average one-way airfare, including passenger ancillaries such as food and drink, would need 
to be about $340-$380 to earn a margin of about 4 per cent.
Seat mile costs, another standard industry measure, on the smaller 787-8 are slightly higher, requiring an estimate 
of about 5 per cent more revenue. According to Mr Kjos, the Dreamliners each bring a 20 to 30 per cent fuel cost 
saving - close to $10m a year each - but the planes need to be put to work for up 18 hours a day to make the 
operation viable.
With Norwegian pricing its transatlantic airfares out of London at around £300 return, compared with the £500-£600 
offered by rivals, the scale of its low-cost ambition is so daring many doubt it can pull it off.
The low-frills, long-haul gamble FT BIG READ: AIR TRAVEL
"This feels like yet another airline that starts up, has a go and runs out of money," said Gerald Khoo, an airline 
analyst at Liberum, a broker. It was unclear whether Norwegian's maths added up, he says, adding: "I don't see 
how the Norwegian model is any different to lots of other airlines that have tried and failed."
The flamboyant British entrepreneur Laker was first to try transatlantic routes, launching at £59, not far off the 
average gross weekly wage in 1977. It was wildly popular with the public and the fare was well below the average 
£100 charged by rivals such as BA and PanAm. However, five years later Laker was bankrupt, the venture killed off 
by a declining economy, aircraft problems and competition. The following year, low-cost US carrier People Express 
tested the transatlantic routes but imploded five years later, overstretched and hit by management problems.
Three business class-only airlines, Silverjet and the US-based carriers MaxJet and Eos, all tried transatlantic routes 
before the companies folded between 2007 and 2008.
But Mr Kjos, a former fighter pilot, is not alone in his bet on air travel. Lufthansa is also looking to set up a low-cost, 
long-haul operation . Chief executive Carsten Spohr said the no-frills service could run flights to holiday destinations 
such as the Seychelles or to cities in China from late 2015, as part of an overhaul at the airline to fend off low-cost 
and Middle Eastern carriers.
So how close is Norwegian to profitability on its transatlantic routes?
The operation is "starting to stabilise", says Mr Kjos, without giving any detail on when the routes will become 
profitable. Planes are running at about 80-90 per cent full on all routes, he says. Expansion is being mapped out. 
Paris, Barcelona and Rome are on the long-haul list, as part of Norwegian's strategy to target the tourist market. 
Traffic will be added on existing routes from 2016, when it is due to receive the 787-9s.
He maintains that Norwegian will be able to retain its advantage even when rivals take delivery of their fuel-efficient 
aircraft, arguing it still has a lower cost base. "If they lower fares, we know that will drive up volume. And then there 
will be enough for everybody."
Mr Kjos does admit its stab at low-cost long-haul might be too small initially to threaten the bigger airlines on the 
transatlantic routes. "In order to fly a good set-up, you would need more Dreamliners, maybe twice as many."
Protectionism 
But it is not just capacity that threatens the fledgling operation. Norwegian is locked in a dispute with US authorities 
over further flying rights despite an open-skies agreement with Europe.
Pilot unions and rival airlines have railed against what they see as Norwegian's creative ways of squeezing out 
costs. The airline obtained an Irish operating licence which critics say is an attempt to sidestep Norway's high 
labour costs, while it is also employing cabin crew from Thailand. Meetings between EU and US officials have failed 
to break the deadlock, which means the airline cannot obtain the rights to operate US flights with its Irish licence.
The unions argue that the short-term benefits of cheap tickets would come at the expense of the industry's long-
term stability, driving down wages and standards. Labour is one-fifth of Norwegian's overall costs.
Mr Kjos says rivals are afraid of competition and that the airline will operate flights out of Ireland - not just use the 
licence as a way to enter other markets. Norway is not an EU member so is not part of bilateral agreements 
between the EU and Asia, unlike Ireland.
Also stacked against the Scandinavian airline's chances of success, critics say, is its rapid rate of expansion, in an 
echo of the undoing of those who have tried and failed before.
What Norwegian is trying is "monumentally difficult", says Mr O'Leary, in simultaneously developing short and long-
haul. "While they're doing [long-haul] they've taken their eye off the ball in growing the short-haul business," he 
says, pointing to half-year results in July that took it into the red with operating losses before tax and interest of 
Nkr85m.
The low-frills, long-haul gamble FT BIG READ: AIR TRAVEL
The real opportunity, to build a low-cost, long-haul business is in Asia, say observers. "If we look at the underlying 
view of how the market will develop in Europe, it will be inbound leisure traffic from Asia," said Chris Tarry, an 
aviation consultant. "The growth markets are in China and south Asia."
While AirAsia is having some success in the region, the challenge for European carriers such as Norwegian is to 
build a profitable low-cost, long-haul model. In spite of the significant barriers to success, industry experts insist 
someone will manage to make the model work.
As one analyst says: "At some point someone is going to find ways around the complicated airline industry 
restrictions that still exist, in order to develop a lower-cost model on long-haul as well as short-haul."
Asia
Drop in oil boosts 'sexy proposition' for airlines
A growing middle class has driven low-cost, long-haul air travel in Asia. Companies began testing the model in the 
mid-2000s with the creation of Jetstar, partly backedby Australian national airline Qantas and Malaysia's Air Asia. 
Analysts say the latter's Air AsiaX, Asia's largest low-cost airline, is in prime position, with an order book for 50 fuel-
efficient A330-900neo aircraft, which carry 315 passengers.
Ninety per cent of its growth is forecast to come within Asia, but London, Paris and Rome top its list as "vanity 
routes", says the airline's founder Tony Fernandes. Those routes will begin to be added when it takes delivery of its 
aircraft. Having a high number of passengers transfer from its short-haul flights has been essential, as has been a 
12-seat premium cabin.
"This model will work, there's no doubt about it," says Mr Fernandes, despite having had to cut a previous initiative 
that ran routes to Paris and London in 2012, after a rise in fuel prices. "This is an airline that could be not too far off 
what Emirates is doing [in terms of its reach]."
The optimism is based on the new aircraft cutting fuel and running costs but also the airline's strength in connecting 
passengers from its short-haul routes, and infrastructure such as the dedicated low-cost terminal at Kuala Lumpur.
"We have a huge opportunity to be one of the largest long-haul carriers in the business," says Mr Fernandes. "The 
vision is to grow as quick as you can, being profitable, have a few bases around Asia and, combined with the short-
haul flights, be able to dominate the space." With oil languishing around $60 a barrel, he adds, the model has 
become even more of "a sexy proposition".
His confidence comes in spite of overcapacity in the region. In an increasingly competitive market, Air Asia reported 
a third-quarter net loss of Rm210.9m in November and has reviewed its growth plans.
Although in an experimental phase and with profitability uncertain, others in the region are dabbling in long-haul, 
among them Korean budget airline Jin Air and Singaporean-Thai venture NokScoot. Aviation consultancy OAG 
says a number of carriers are well positioned to step into the market.
In China, the big three state-owned carriers - Air China, China Eastern and China Southern - have been able to 
keep low-cost competition at bay, with the aviation regulator banning the establishment of new carriers from 2007 to 
2013. "They [the state-owned trio] love the status quo," says a Hong Kong-based industry analyst who asked not to 
be named. "They have an oligopoly that controls 80 per cent of the domestic market. Whenever times are bad, all 
they need to do is jack up ticket prices."
Additional reporting by Tom Mitchell in Beijing, Kana Inagaki in Tokyo and Jung-a Song in Seoul
Load-Date: December 17, 2014
The low-frills, long-haul gamble FT BIG READ: AIR TRAVEL
End of Document
eDreams ODIGEO Selects Boxever to Drive Customer Engagement Through Big Data and Personalized 
Marketing
eDreams ODIGEO Selects Boxever to Drive Customer Engagement Through 
Big Data and Personalized Marketing
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
December 16, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 592 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Tue, Dec 16, 2014 - Boxever, the leading provider of 
predictive marketing solutions for the travel industry, announced that leading online travel agency (OTA), eDreams 
ODIGEO, is rolling out Boxever's solution across all of its brands. The company is implementing Boxever to support 
its overall initiatives around putting the customer at the center of all its activities. "To improve customer experience 
and confidence, we were looking for a new type of CRM solution that was designed for our volume and scale and 
could be implemented quickly across all brands and each distribution channel," said Riccardo Casalino, Group 
CMO. 
"Our expectation was that the Boxever platform, and its travel-centric, predictive marketing engine, would 
significantly improve customer engagement and conversion. We saw this firsthand with the initial Boxever 
implementation, and expect even greater results as we roll this out across all channels and brands." eDreams 
ODIGEO is using Boxever to create a single, unified view of their customers, incorporating information from web 
behavior, mobile, transactional history, email interactions, ad engagement, customer service, and more. Insights 
gained through predictive analytics will drive a decision engine that intelligently delivers the right message at the 
right time, personalized specifically for the individual customer. Boxever integrates this intelligence with eDreams 
ODIGEO's existing channel marketing tools, such as email, display servers, web site, and more. "The foundation for 
creating 1:1 customer experiences is a single customer view -- from there you can develop insights and take 
actions to personalize communications and engagements that drive revenue," said Dave O'Flanagan, CEO, 
Boxever. "We're delighted to help eDreams ODIGEO achieve their CRM and personalization goals, and are 
extremely happy with the results they have already achieved during the initial phase of the project. We look forward 
to supporting their success across brands and channels." About eDreams ODIGEO eDreams ODIGEO is the 
world's largest online travel company in the flight sector and the largest European e-commerce company with more 
than 14 million customers in 42 countries worldwide. With five well-known brands; eDreams, Go Voyages, Opodo, 
Travellink and Liligo, the company offers the best deals on regular flights, charters, low-cost airlines, hotels, cruises, 
car rentals, cruises, holiday packages and travel insurance to its clients. The company also provides advertisers 
with an effective platform to reach their target markets in a personalized way, both locally and globally. About 
Boxever Boxever's predictive marketing platform helps airlines and online travel agents (OTAs) deliver 
personalized, 1:1 marketing experiences to their customers across all channels and at all stages of the customer 
lifecycle. Companies like Ryanair, Air New Zealand, TigerAir, Wideroe, Atlantic Airways, and more achieve higher 
eDreams ODIGEO Selects Boxever to Drive Customer Engagement Through Big Data and Personalized 
Marketing
conversion rates, increased revenue, and improved loyalty using Boxever's SaaS-based platform. Learn more at 
boxever.com or follow us on Twitter @Boxever.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: January 16, 2015
End of Document
Irish Stock Exchange too small' for public listing, says Avolon boss
Irish Stock Exchange too small' for public listing, says Avolon boss
Sunday Business Post
December 14, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 459 words
Body
The Irish Stock Exchange is too small for companies of Avolon's size to list their shares on, according to the 
founder and chief executive of the aircraft leasing company, Dómhnal Slattery.
   We're only a tiny little country,   Slattery said, speaking after Avolon launched its shares on the New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE) last week.    I'd like the Irish Stock Exchange to be [the same] as the New York Stock Exchange, 
but it's not.  
Both Slattery and company president John Higgins would consider a secondary listing in Ireland if plans by the Irish 
Stock Exchange to facilitate such listings come to fruition, but the draw of large, long-holding institutional investors 
will still make New York a better option.
   It's a simple fact - it's the deepest pool of equity capital in the world, by a multiple, so it's an obvious choice,   
Slattery said.
The currency in which those shares are traded is also a factor, according to Higgins.
   Our industry is a dollar industry - everything is bought in dollars, traded in dollars, and rented in dollars - so it 
makes sense to go to the deepest dollar market,   Higgins said.
Nevertheless, this should not dampen Ireland's enthusiasm for companies like Avolon, he said.    One fact we've 
just learned,   Slattery said,    is that our IPO [initial public offering of shares] is the largest IPO of an Irish-founded 
company in the New York Stock Exchange, a metric we can all be proud of.  
Aircraft leasing is a growing sector, with Ireland at the heart of it. Industry projections claim that in 2015, $124 billion 
will be spent on aircraft purchasing, rising to $156 billion by 2019. Of that, around 40 per cent - according to some 
estimates - will be aircraft leasing. At present, Ireland handles half of all aircraft leasing in the world.
Irish Stock Exchange too small' for public listing, says Avolon boss
Avolon's first day as a publicly traded company started slowly, with the stock trading around $19, well below the 
expected range of $21 to $23. The IPO raised about $270 million, according to reports.
Slattery put this down to a broader weakness in the markets.
In relation to the drop in oil prices below $60 a barrel, Slattery pointed out that neither expensive oil nor cheap oil 
would particularly inconvenience the company.
   The equation is pretty simple,   he said.    Oil is 30 per cent of a cost base for airlines. Cheaper oil allows them to 
price fares more competitively; low fares are good for traffic; and that's good for leasing.  
......
**The Numbers**
227: Total size of Avolon's fleet of aircraft
49: Number of customers, including Ryanair, American Airlines and Air France
63: Number of staff in Dublin, USA, China, Singapore and Dubai
$120bn: Amount that will be spent on aircraft next year
$25bn: The International Air Transport Association's profit forecast for 2015
Load-Date: December 15, 2014
End of Document
Recruiter finds 'true North' in international expansion
Recruiter finds 'true North' in international expansion
Sunday Business Post
December 14, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: SMALL BUSINESS
Length: 678 words
Body
A blended approach to tech recruitment, combining an online platform with traditional selection techniques, is 
proving a winner for Cork's Zartis as the company prepares for expansion abroad.
The brainchild of tech entrepreneur John Dennehy, Zartis is taking its unique recruitment model to four overseas 
markets, with new offices in Germany, Russia, Britain and Spain.
In the past eight months, Zartis has supplemented its existing four-strong staffing cohort with eight new hires. Zartis 
RU, a Moscow-based joint venture, employs 12 more.
A recently-secured contract with Ryanair will see the company handle all of the low-cost airline's IT recruitment, and 
Dennehy is confident that the Zartis model has potential applications in other sectors and locations.
Despite its recent success, however, the company's future has not always looked so assured.
   We made all the mistakes a start-up tends to make. We set up the company in 2009 looking for opportunities in 
the online HR or recruitment space,   said Dennehy.
   We went through a lot of twists and turns, building out products we couldn't scale at the start. Then, around 
December last year, we launched Zartis.com and we've got a good product/market fit with that. It's taken a few 
years to find our true North, but we've finally found it."
In its current incarnation, Dennehy describes Zartis as an online marketplace connecting tech and multilingual 
candidates with employers.
   Candidates create a professional profile on the site, including information such as where they want to work and 
what they want to earn,   he said.
Recruiter finds 'true North' in international expansion
   We get about about 250 candidates every week coming to us,   said Phelan.    We screen those candidates with a 
follow-up phone call and we ascertain if they're abroad, their true desire to move, their availability, their salary 
expectations - those kind of details.
   We publish those details on Zartis.com on a private part of the site, where employers can log in. Every week, they 
see the 20 candidates we think are the best.  
The companies can then contact those candidates directly to request an interview through the website.
   Then, ultimately, the candidates get interviewed and hired, and we charge companies 10 per cent of the 
candidate's annual salary.  
Zartis publishes 30 new profiles each week, during which time 50 companies log on to use the service, on average, 
including Apple and PayPal.
   Most of the candidates are software developers with .Net, Java, or mobile - iOS/Android - front-end developers 
and designs, product managers, QA engineers, and online marketing professionals,   said Dennehy.
Since launching just under six years ago, half of Zartis' candidates have been based in Ireland, and the remainder 
in other European countries.
   What's happening now is there is a migration from the south and east of Europe to the north and west of Europe,   
said Dennehy.
   We're sourcing candidates for software developers. A lot come from Spain, Portugal and Eastern Europe, and 
then they're getting placed in Dublin, London and Berlin.
   We've just opened a small office in London and another in Berlin. We have the joint venture in Moscow and we 
are opening in Madrid at the end of January.
   That office will be specifically to source software developers from Spain and Portugal and bring them to Northern 
European cities.  
The company plans to introduce a referral fee, so that if a candidate tweets about a role or puts it on Facebook or 
LinkedIn, and somebody else sees it, applies for the job and gets hired, we're going to give that candidate EUR 
250.
Dennehy's longer term plans for Zartis include possible expansion into other sectors, including financial services, 
pharmaceutical and energy.
   The model we have is equally applicable in those markets,   said Dennehy.    I don't think you can completely 
automate the recruitment process.
   I don't think it's possible to take humans out of the process. There's 'value add' - nuances that come into it. You 
must have really good software and I think you need to have a really strong service component as well.  
Load-Date: December 15, 2014
End of Document
Typetec finishes Ryanair pilots iPad contract
Typetec finishes Ryanair pilots iPad contract
Sunday Business Post
December 14, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 182 words
Body
Company: Typetec
**Done deal:**iPad roll-out for Ryanair pilots
**The clincher:**   The logistical challenges of delivering information to crew are instantly simplified with the 
introduction of the iPad as an Electronic Flight Bag.  - **Michael Hickey,**group director of operations, Ryanair
.....
IT firm Typetec has completed a Ryanair contract to supply iPads to 3,500 pilots for use in place of traditional flight 
manuals. Under the terms of the contract, Typetec deployed electronic flight bags to 60 European destinations, 
supplying all of the necessary hardware to support the deal and liaising with third party app companies.
The electronic flight bags will eliminate 15kgs of manuals from each cockpit, according to Michael Hickey, group 
director of operations, Ryanair.
   The logistical challenges of delivering information to crew are instantly simplified with the introduction of the iPad 
as an electronic flight bag,   said Hickey.
   Our progression towards a paperless flight deck has efficiency benefits recognised across the industry. A 
paperless cockpit is an efficient cockpit.  
Load-Date: December 15, 2014
End of Document
The Man Who Might Just Save Malaysia Airlines
The Man Who Might Just Save Malaysia Airlines
International Business Times News
December 12, 2014 Friday 12:01 AM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1193 words
Byline: Ismat Sarah Mangla
Body
Dec 11, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 It's being called the toughest job in aviation: turning around the fortunes of beleaguered Malaysia Airlines, which 
suffered the loss of two planes and 537 lives this year, not to mention widening financial losses[1]. But now, 
Malaysia's flag carrier, which is undergoing privatization, has its man. Christoph Mueller, the 52-year-old German 
head of Ireland's Aer Lingus, was named[2] as Malaysia Airlines' next CEO and is expected to join the board in 
January.
 In a statement issued by Khazanah Nasional Bhd, Malaysia's sovereign wealth fund that currently owns 70 percent 
of the airline, Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak called Mueller's appointment[3] 'part of efforts by the 
government and Khazanah to lay strong foundations for the future success of our national carrier.'
 That's a tall order for anyone, and many analysts are skeptical about whether it can even be done. 'Mr. Mueller 
faces an uphill battle in turning around Malaysia Airlines,' said Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst with 
Atmosphere Research Group. 'But I also believe he is about to experience one of the most exciting parts of his 
professional career.'
 John Strickland, an independent aviation consultant based in London, says that Mueller can handle the turbulence 
-- he has a history of taking on tough challenges. 
 'He has not taken easy positions in his career,' said Strickland. 'You want someone calm and battle-hardened for 
this role, and that's what he is. He's got really superb real-world experience facing and overcoming challenges.'
 Mueller's most recent experience at Aer Lingus seems to bode well for his tenure at Malaysia Airlines. He joined 
Ireland's national carrier as CEO in 2009, when the struggling airline was facing tough competition from low-cost 
rival Ryanair. Mueller steered the company through several difficult battles, including fending off a takeover bid from 
Ryanair. He managed to expand the airline's trans-Atlantic services and reposition it as a more service-oriented 
carrier. 
 Malaysia Airlines also has to stave off competition from low-cost carriers like AirAsia, at the same time contending 
with full-service giants in the region, such as Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific. 
 'Under Christoph's strategic leadership, Aer Lingus has been transformed into a strong, consistently profitable 
airline with a clear strategic direction, a resilient business model as a value carrier and an improved cost base," 
said[4] Aer Lingus Chairman Colm Barrington when Mueller announced in July that he was stepping down from that 
role.
 Khazanah managing director Tan Sri Azman Mokhtar said[5] this kind of experience made Mueller stand out, 
especially as the airline undergoes restructuring as it buys out minority shareholders. The job would require 
The Man Who Might Just Save Malaysia Airlines
'absolutely the best aviation management expertise, and in particular,... a strong track record of turning around 
national flag carriers,' said Mokhtar.
 Not everything in Mueller's career has gone as smoothly. In the early aughts, he was at the helm of Sabena, 
Belgium's national airline, which was also suffering huge losses. Mueller, who could not be reached for this story, 
had to cut jobs[6], which provoked bitter strikes, and eventually the airline went bankrupt in 2001. Similarly, he will 
have to cut about 6,000 jobs at Malaysia Airlines, analysts said, a process that's already underway.
 'If Mr. Mueller succeeds, he will be lauded as a management genius,' said Harteveldt. 'If he fails, he will be able to 
argue that the airline was 'terminal' before he got there and that external factors were simply too great.' 
 Marisa Garcia, aviation editor at Skift, says Mueller's tough experiences with Sabena actually make him more 
suited to the role at Malaysia Airlines. 
 'He's had both success and failure, with Sabena, though that failure was due to factors outside his control. That's 
actually an advantage. Experience with failure will have helped him build resilience, and given him time to rethink 
his approach to tough turnarounds,' she said.
 Mueller completed an advanced management program at Harvard Business School, and before joining Aer Lingus, 
was executive aviation director at TUI Travel, an international leisure travel group, and chief financial officer of DHL 
Worldwide before it was bought by Deutsche Post AG. 
 He will be the first foreign CEO to head up Malaysia Airlines, which could work in his favor, argues Mike Boyd, an 
aviation consultant in Colorado. 'He's a foreign guy with a briefcase, coming in with some European magic. It was 
important to have that,' said Boyd.
 'He's coming in as an outsider. It could be a challenge, in terms of culture, but it could also be seen as an 
opportunity,' added Strickland. 'He's untainted by politics or previous regimes.' 
 But Garcia says the job will be complicated by his need to assimilate into and communicate effectively within a 
different culture. 'He won't receive a unanimous warm welcome. We already see a political reaction to the 
announcement of his appointment and it will likely intensify,' said Garcia, referring to the reaction of critics within the 
country[7] who believe the job should have gone to a Malaysian.
 That's just the beginning of the challenges he'll face at Malaysia Airlines. He must also restore trust in a brand that 
is currently synonymous with tragedy. Flight MH17 was shot down by a missile over Ukraine in July, and flight 
MH370 disappeared in March with 287 aboard, in a still-unsolved mystery. One crash was not the airline's fault, and 
the other may have been -- if indeed a crash it was -- also due to factors beyond its control. But they tainted the 
company's name heavily. 
 'That won't be corrected by a new name or livery. It will be led by fundamentals such as having excellent on-time 
performance, as well as exploring how it can better improve its pilot training and ensuring its aircraft maintenance is 
viewed as among the world's best,' said Harteveldt.
 It would be a herculean task for anyone, experts agree.
 'The question isn't really whether Mueller has what it takes to turn around an airline, or even to turn around 
Malaysia Airlines,' said Garcia. 'The question is whether Malaysia Airlines has what it takes to let any CEO turn it 
around.'
 [1]: http://www.wsj.com/articles/malaysian-airline-system-third-quarter-loss-widens-1417174497 [2]:            
http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/business/christoph-mueller-leaves-aer-lingus-for-troubled-malaysian-airlines-
30801665.html 
[3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/838c6440-7c7f-11e4-aa9c-
00144feabdc0.html#axzz3LQhvswdx [4]:            http://www.rte.ie/news/business/2014/0718/631536-christoph-
mueller-aer-lingus/ [5]:            http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/business/christoph-mueller-leaves-aer-lingus-for-
troubled-malaysian-airlines-30801665.html [6]:            http://www.independent.ie/business/irish/aer-lingus-sabena-
axe-man-is-used-to-turbulence-26551845.html [7]:            http://www.irishtimes.com/business/transport-and-
tourism/appointment-of-white-man-mueller-causes-malaysian-storm-1.2030513 
Load-Date: December 12, 2014
End of Document
Typetec wins Ryanair tech contract Ryanair Deal
Typetec wins Ryanair tech contract; Ryanair Deal
Business World (Digest)
December 11, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 293 words
Highlight: Irish IT firm Typetec today announced the rollout of a new "electronic flight bag" contract with Ryanair.
Body
Irish IT firm Typetec today announced the rollout of a new "electronic flight bag" contract with Ryanair.
As part of the contract, Typetec delivered electronic flight bags to Ryanair pilots, deploying more than 3,500 iPads 
during November. Ryanair pilots will use the devices in place of traditional flight manuals.
The electronic flight bags will reduce dependency on paper products, eliminating 15kgs of manuals from each 
cockpit.
As part of the agreement, Typetec provided and deployed all hardware, in addition to delivering comprehensive end 
user training to 3,500 pilots. Services included liasing with third party app companies to ensure a working solution, 
implementation of comprehensive mobile device management and logistical management to over 60 destinations 
across Europe. Ryanair's Group Director of Operations, Michael Hickey said: "With a rapidly growing operation 
across 72 European bases, the logistical challenges of delivering information to crew are instantly simplified with 
the introduction of the iPad as an Electronic Flight Bag. This is yet another display of Ryanair's commitment to 
improving our already outstanding operational performance. Ryanair recognises the value of this cutting edge 
technology as a powerful and flexible solution. Our progression towards a paperless flight deck has efficiency 
benefits recognised across the industry. A paperless cockpit is an efficient cockpit." Typetec Chairman, Tom Close 
added: "As a wholly owned Irish company, this is an important deal for Typetec as it reinforces our position as a 
trusted IT partner with the capability to engage and deliver on large scale projects. We are delighted to partner with 
Ryanair as they embark on this 'digital' journey." For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 15, 2014
Typetec wins Ryanair tech contract Ryanair Deal
End of Document
Stansted owner calls for further rail investment
Stansted owner calls for further rail investment
City A.M.
December 10, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 326 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON
Body
THE AIRPORT group which owns Stansted has called on the government to increase investment in rail 
infrastructure in the south east.
Neil Thompson, chief financial officer at Manchester Airport Group, made the comments yesterday as the company 
reported its results for the first half of the 2014 financial year.
The firm posted an eight per cent improvement in revenue in the six months to 30 September 2014, up to £421m 
from £390m. The company also saw passenger numbers grow, by 8.5 per cent, from 25.9m to 28.1m.
Thompson said the improved results could be attributed to the fact that the company had broadened its existing 
carrier base while also adding new routes.
"Volume growth has been absolutely key," he added. "And some of the longer term deals with the likes of Ryanair 
are starting to bear fruit."
He stated that the group had been "working pretty hard with the government to improve the rail infrastructure to 
Stansted".
"There's a really big opportunity for the government to invest in that trainline," Thompson commented. "It needs 
more work - if it was improved it would be good for British infrastructure more broadly. The government needs to put 
that business case higher up on its agenda."
Thompson also commented on the impact falling oil prices would have on the air travel industry.
Stansted owner calls for further rail investment
While he said the long-term results of low oil prices "are yet to be seen", he added: "In the short term, they will have 
benefits for airlines. But are they going to go out and order new planes off the back of it? Probably not."
As well as Stansted, the group owns airports in Manchester, Bournemouth and the East Midlands. With 11.3m 
passengers, up almost 12 percent on the first half of 2013, Stansted is now the UK's fastest growing airport.
At Manchester Airport, the firm saw the number of passengers increase from 12.3m to 13.2m, and the company has 
estimated that full-year figures will see Manchester's passenger numbers climb to a pre-recession peak of 22m.
Graphic
 
Manchester Airport Group has seen passenger numbers grow to 28.1m this year
Load-Date: December 10, 2014
End of Document
A Lingus shareholders back pension deal A Lingus Vote
A Lingus shareholders back pension deal; A Lingus Vote
Business World (Digest)
December 10, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 90 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus' shareholders today voted in favour of a plan to inject E191 million into a staff pension fund, 
one of the final obstacles to resolving a dispute that has weighed on Aer Lingus' share price for years.
Body
Aer Lingus' shareholders today voted in favour of a plan to inject E191 million into a staff pension fund, one of the 
final obstacles to resolving a dispute that has weighed on Aer Lingus' share price for years.
Seventy-eight percent of shareholders backed the deal, indicating the airline's largest investor Ryanair, which 
controls 30 percent, voted in favour. Ryanair and Aer Lingus declined to comment on how Ryanair voted.
Less than 1 percent of shareholders voted against, while the remainder did not vote.
For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to open fourth Portuguese base in Azores
Ryanair to open fourth Portuguese base in Azores
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 9, 2014 Tuesday 7:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 227 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced that it will open its fourth Portuguese base at Ponta Delgada Airport in Azores in 
April 2015.
Body
Ryanair's base in the Azores will deliver: 1 based Boeing 737-800 aircraft; 3 new routes to London Stansted (1 x 
weekly), Lisbon (2 x daily) and Porto (1 x daily); 20 weekly flights with morning and evening schedules; 350,000 
customers p.a.; and 350 "on site" jobs p.a. as it invests $100m following the removal by INAC of the PSO 
restrictions. Ryanair is also in discussions with the Government of the Azores about possible services to Terceira 
and additional international flights to the Islands. 
Customers can fly on Ryanair's twice-daily service to Lisbon and daily service to Porto while enjoying allocated 
seating, a free 2nd carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding passes, and 
our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, business and 
leisure travellers. Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, David O'Brien said: "Ryanair welcomes the Government's 
decision to open the Azorean market to competition to the benefit of Island residents, tourists and consumers. Our 3 
new Azores routes with daily frequencies and great timings are ideal for business passengers, Island residents and 
families booking their low fare summer holiday getaways, with fares starting from just 29.99 one-wayfor travel in 
April, May and June which are available for booking until Monday (8 Dec)."
Load-Date: December 15, 2014
End of Document
FTSE retreats as oil slips on global growth concerns
FTSE retreats as oil slips on global growth concerns
Citywire
December 8, 2014 Monday 4:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 602 words
Body
Pleasure at the strong US jobs figures on Friday quickly evaporated as disappointing data from Japan and China 
and a downgrade of Italy by ratings agency S&P revived worries about the state of the global economy.
The FTSE 100 quickly shed its gains from the end of last week as the UK's leading index slid 58 points or 0.9% to 
6,685. Commodity-related stocks were sold off as new GDP data in Japan confirmed the country's third quarter 
recession was worse than first estimated. Meanwhile, the slowdown in China was underlined by a drop in export 
and imports last month.
Oil-related stocks suffered the most again as the price of Brent crude fell to a new five-year low of $67.25 a barrel 
and news emerged of a note released on Friday by Morgan Stanley predicting a base level of $70 next year.
On Wall Street the S&P 500 was nine points or 0.5% lower at 2,065. But in Canada the Toronto Stock Exchange's 
S&P/TSX composite index, which is dominated by resources stocks, plunged 2%.
In London Weir (WEIR) was the biggest faller, tumbling more than 5% to £17.45 after US broker Cowen and Co 
slashed its target price for the valve maker, whose products are widely used in oil exploration and mining, from 
£26.07 to £22.97.
Royal Dutch Shell (RDSb) retreated 2.3% to £21.78 while BP (BP.L) shed 1.5% to 418.5p on reports that hundreds 
of jobs will be cut at offices in London, Sunbury and Aberdeen as the group grapples with plunging oil prices on top 
of the compensation costs for the Gulf of Mexico spill. Tullow Oil (TLW) shed 3p or 0.8% to 393p.
BHP Billiton (BLT) was down over 2% to £14.43 after investors took a jaundiced view of the global miner's plans to 
spin off a bunch of assets it did not want into a new listed company called South32. This will incorporate 32 
operations in the southern hemisphere in aluminium, nickel, silver and coal.
EasyJet (EZJ) retreated 2.8% to £17.11 after analysts at BofA Merrill Lynch warned the airline sector was 
expanding capacity too fast and that 'high profile profit warnings' were likely. In a note to investors it said it preferred 
IAG (ICAG) and Ryanair (RYA), which it said was doing better than rival EasyJet.
In Europe, the FTSEurofirst 300 index lost seven points or 0.5% in response to the soft Asia data and the 
downgrade to Italy. Italy's MIB index slipped 0.6% after S&P's decision to cut the country's sovereign debt rating 
from BBB to BBB-, one notch above 'junk'. The ratings agency cited poor competitiveness which it said was 
undermining the sustainability of its huge debts.
FTSE retreats as oil slips on global growth concerns
On currency markets, the pound recovered to trade at $1.5631 against the dollar after weakness caused by the 
strong US jobs data on Friday.
Marks & Spencer (MKS) fell 2.6% to 484p after the Guardian reported problems at its Castle Donnington 
distribution centre were forcing it to extend deliver times for Christmas orders.
Sainsbury (SBRY) rose initially after weekend reports that activist fund Crystal Amber (CRSL) was building a stake 
in the supermarket group on behalf of other investors. But the speculation cooled and the shares closed 2p or 1% 
lower at 236p.
Hargreaves Lansdown (HRGV) shed another 28p or 2.8% to 963p as the wealth manager announced Simon 
Cleveland, a partner at accountancy firm Deloitte, would act as interim chief financial officer following the 
announcement on Friday that Tracey Taylor was leaving.
Premier Foods (PLC) continued to look off colour, down 2p or 6% at 31.4p, as it strived to re-set controversial 'pay-
to-stay' schemes with suppliers.
Silicon chip designer ARM Holdings (ARM) gained 2% to 965p and drinks can maker Bunzl (BNZL) added 0.8% to 
£18.30.
Load-Date: December 8, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair November passenger traffic increases 22%
Ryanair November passenger traffic increases 22%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 8, 2014 Monday 3:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 119 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of November 2014 was 6.35 million 
passengers, an increase of 22%, compared to 5.2 million passengers for November 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of November 2014 was 88%, an increase of seven percentage points, compared to 81% 
for November 2013. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 22% to 6.35m 
customers in November, while our load factor rose by 7% points to 88%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger 
forward booking strategy and the continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer programme, which 
delivered better than expected load factors in the first month of our significantly expanded winter schedule. With our 
new routes, increased frequencies and Business Plus service, Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just 
the lowest fares in every market we operate in."
Load-Date: December 14, 2014
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
December 7, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 690 words
Body
**Next step in AIB plan is on way**
Last week saw Minister for Finance Michael Noonan tell the Dáil that the government was not    rushing   into selling 
its stake in AIB.
However, he suggested that the sale of some of the bank could happen late next year or during 2016.
Last month Noonan warned investors that AIB shares were overvalued.    I am issuing a kind of a warning to 
investors. Wait until it's restructured before you buy. If you buy now you will lose money,   he said.
Ciaran Callaghan, a senior credit analyst with Merrion Capital, said in a briefing note last week that Noonan    
believes the taxpayer will recoup its full EUR 21 billion investment in the bank in due course  .
   While AIB's management team has been working on readying the bank for a potential sale in early H1 2015, the 
initial reprivatisation timeline appears to have been extended, likely reflecting the state's immediate priority to focus 
on Permanent TSB's European Central Bank capital plan,   Callaghan said.
   In the meantime the delay should allow AIB to demonstrate further earnings improvements and consequently 
maximise the sales price.  
..............................
**Ryanair to open fourth Portuguese base**
Ryanair has announced that it will open its fourth Portuguese base next year.
The airline will base one aircraft at the new base in the Azores and will operate three new routes to London 
Stansted, Lisbon and Porto from it, a move involving an investment of $100 million (EUR 81 million).
Boardroom Briefing
Meanwhile, Ryanair's former deputy chief executive Howard Millar has joined the board of Irelandia Aviation, the 
low cost carrier development company behind Ryanair in Europe, Tiger Airways in Asia, Allegiant in the US, Viva 
Aerobus in Mexico and VivaColumbia in Columbia.
Millar will step down completely as a full time executive at Ryanair this month, and is due to join Ryanair's board 
next year as a non-executive director.
..............................
**Mueller gets new job**
Aer Lingus group chief executive Christoph Mueller has been unveiled as the new head of Malaysia Airlines, 
charged with reviving the airline after it had two high-profile disasters this year.
Malaysia's sovereign wealth fund Khazanah Nasional is planning a major restructuring of the airline, with trading in 
the airline's shares due to be suspended from December 15.
Earlier this year Aer Lingus announced that Mueller would step down as chief executive in May 2015.
..............................
**Expansion at Gillen Markets**
Brian Delaney, a former head of private clients at Goodbody and a former head of equities at NCB, has joined the 
Irish-based investment training and advisory firm, Gillen Markets, as executive chairman.
Delaney's career started at Bank of Ireland, before a move to Goodbody in 1987.
According to Rory Gillen, founder of Gillen Markets, he and Delaney    share ideas and values that are fundamental 
to providing private clients with the best care for their investments  .
Gillen was a co-founder of Merrion Capital, and was head of institutional research there before establishing Gillen 
Markets in 2009.
..............................
**Growth at Aryzta**
Global bakery group Aryzta delivered a trading update at its annual general meeting last Tuesday.
The company, which makes Cuisine de France bread and pastry products, reported a 13.8 per cent increase in 
group revenue to EUR 1.26 billion.
The company's chief executive Owen Killian cited a "modest" increase in underlying revenue, buoyed by a strong 
performance by new acquisitions.
A briefing note from Cantor Fitzgerald said it was a    solid interim management statement  .
   The North America unit saw a 3.2 per cent decline, in underlying growth, as it moved production from the region 
to new bases. While this has had a short-term impact on the unit's performance, it should free up capacity to grow 
the division in coming months, with the company expecting its pipeline of new customers to drive revenue,   the 
note said.
Aryzta has a primary listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange, and a secondary listing in Ireland. The company holds the 
majority stake in agri services group Origin Enterprises.
Boardroom Briefing
Load-Date: December 8, 2014
End of Document
Stock take: market week
Stock take: market week
Sunday Business Post
December 7, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 485 words
Body
**Ryanair powers ahead as Aer Lingus plays the long haul game**
   Despite adding 13 per cent in seat capacity, and adding more routes to new cities, Ryanair's November load 
factor rose by 7 per cent year on year, from 81 per cent to 88 per cent. Aer Lingus enjoyed another strong period in 
its long haul operations. Though the load factor declined 3.7 per cent year on year, this is of little concern given the 
growth in passenger numbers, which rose 28.4 per cent on the same routes. Given Ryanair's successes within 
Europe, it is not surprising that Aer Lingus reported a 9.1 per cent decline in its short haul passenger numbers.  
*Cantor Fitzgerald briefing note*
.........................
**Dublin-based Avolon announces IPO plans**
   The company's committed portfolio reflects a strong push towards new technology aircraft with 66 next-gen 
A320neos, Boeing 737 MAX, A330neos and Boeing 787s to be added to its portfolio. Avolon boasts a global 
customer base with capital providers across geographies, with an emphasis on emerging high growth markets such 
as China, South-East Asia, the Middle East and Latin America. As of September 30, 2014, its customer base 
comprised 49 customers in 27 countries.  
*Goodbody Stockbrokers briefing note*
.........................
**Bank of Ireland looks to Britain as slow recovery continues**
   Bank of Ireland's strong capital build in 2014 helps address concerns regarding its ability to redeem the 2009 
preference shares in 2016. Future conservative HPI-driven releases of mortgage impairments provide additional 
Stock take: market week
support to the ongoing organic capital build. With redemption concerns allayed, the possibility of capital returns and 
potential for further upside to loan impairment charges, we are maintaining our 'Outperform' rating.  
*Davy briefing note*
.........................
**Irish gamblers contribute to Betfair strong growth**
   Betfair's customer base in Ireland rose 40 per cent between May and October.
The 2014 World Cup was the most significant single event of the period, with over 500,000 bets placed on Betfair in 
Ireland. There was traditionally strong trading at the Punchestown Festival in May, an encouraging start for Irish 
Champions Day in September, and the All-Ireland senior football and hurling championships proved popular as ever 
in a vintage season under both codes.  
*Betfair half-yearly results statement*
.........................
**Petroceltic share price plummets as Dragon drops bid**
   The board of Petroceltic remains confident in the ongoing execution of its strategy as an independent company. 
Petroceltic's production and development business has delivered a strong performance to date in 2014, with 
important progressions made and milestones met regarding our world-class Ain Tsila asset in Algeria.  
*Petroceltic response to Dragon announcement*
   It is hard not to conclude that the stock is oversold.  
*Davy analyst Job Langbroek*
Load-Date: December 8, 2014
End of Document
A bad website hurts your sales
A bad website hurts your sales
Sunday Business Post
December 7, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: TECHNOLOGY
Length: 777 words
Body
Poor user experience (UX) is costing Irish businesses the vast majority of potential sales online, according to John 
Beckett, founder of ChannelSight.
Beckett, who shot to prominence at the turn of the century after designing Ryanair's first online sales channel, said 
companies don't make it easy enough for customers to make a purchase.
   Just over half of people who visit large brand sites have an active buying intent but only 4 per cent will ever 
convert. All of the friction in the process means you have a lot of drop off.  
Beckett's firm has built a plug-in that creates a buy-now link on a company's website, including details of retailers 
who have the product, facilitating customers to make an immediate purchase.
ChannelSight, spun off in March 2013 from Beckett's enterprise software business AirTight, has 15 staff spread 
across Dublin, Romania, and Greece.
Since its launch, the firm has partnered with 200 retailers in 40 countries.
   We're selling a business to business product but they typically already have product pages and agencies working 
on that content. The problem is they aren't effectively using the traffic they are spending this money to generate,   
he said.
Beckett said traffic was too often prioritised over conversion rate. He said firms need to focus more on the ad forms 
that lead to sales more than those which increase visits to brand pages.
   We're able to show the conversion rate that's generated from each person that is on the site and what brought 
them to the site in the first place,   he said.
A bad website hurts your sales
   UX is a critical part of every engagement with the consumer, and there are so many huge brands that are doing 
all of the basics wrong. They have people leaking out all over the place. They need to plug them early in the 
process.
   Even where the content is good, there can be problems. Philips were our first client and had a refined offering. 
They were looking after consumers, but they weren't presenting a good option to buy. In that area we are still 
making an impact.  
The ChannelSight founder said the firm was looking to increase its customer base substantially in 2015, with a 
focus on getting clients to think less about getting visitors to business websites.
   We've got big ambitions for the company. We are talking to a lot of platform providers to remove another layer of 
friction in the buying process. When someone searches for an item, we want to give them an opportunity to buy 
from that rather than generate traffic,   he said.
   People searching want to make a purchase but they are getting frustrated and they just drop off. Large brands 
know this is important, they are looking for ways to remove obstacles to make it easier for people to buy.  
Beckett said Ryanair's moves to improve its UX was a promising sign.    When the site was really bad, there were 
too many layers, it was so complicated. It started off reasonably good because it was simple. There was a big 
learning curve along the way there,   he said.
   What they didn't have internally was the UX staff to show where the drop-off was, people would specifically avoid 
Ryanair. It was almost like puberty, now the site has graduated to being an adult.  
Data analytics is an area where Beckett expects serious improvements from businesses online in the next year. He 
said firms are getting smarter at targeting customers but there is still work to do.
   Personalised recommendations are getting better. Retargeting companies like AdRoll are doing some clever 
things. With retargeting, however, there are still problems; there needs to be a way of working out when someone 
has finished off a purchase. There's a long way to go,   he said.
While Beckett is confident in the ability of businesses to reach customers, he said the education system needs to 
get better at developing sales skills.
   I started when I was 14 and I only ever wanted to run my own business. In Ireland, no-one is taught how to sell. In 
business studies in school, you're taught how to do a balance sheet. Who cares? You are never going to use that 
unless you're an accountant,   he said.
   They should be teaching how to define a value proposition, how to quantify if something is a good business idea. 
That's one of the things I focus on with mentoring. It's particularly important with tech companies as the people 
running them are usually technologists, they are focused on delivering the product. They need to step back and 
think who is going to buy it.
   Too many people go into business thinking they are going to be bought by Google for EUR 1 billion. That doesn't 
happen. You don't build a company to sell it. You build cool technology and then companies buy you.  
Load-Date: December 8, 2014
End of Document
Malaysia Airlines hires chief who turned round Aer Lingus Travel & leisure
Malaysia Airlines hires chief who turned round Aer Lingus; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
December 6, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 13
Length: 324 words
Byline: Joel Lewin
Body
Malaysia Airlines has tapped the man credited with transforming Aer Lingus, the Irish carrier, to become chief 
executive of its successor company, which is being privatised after struggling to recover from two aviation disasters 
this year.
Christoph R Mueller will lead Malaysia Airlines Berhad, which will start operating next July, Khazanah Nasional Bhd, 
the country's sovereign wealth fund, said yesterday.
In a statement issued by Khazanah, Najib Razak , Malaysia's prime minister, said the appointment was "part of 
efforts by the government and Khazanah to lay strong foundations for the future success of our national carrier".
The airline said its shares would be suspended from the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange on December 15 as it 
moves to delist and advance with a Rm6bn ($1.7bn) government restructuring programme.
Mr Mueller, a German aviation industry veteran, faces considerable challenges when he takes the helm at Malaysia 
Airlines, which has not made an annual profit since 2010.
Last week, it reported its worst quarterly loss since 2011, with losses widening to Rm576.1m, up from Rm375.4 m 
for the same period last year.
Malaysia Airlines hires chief who turned round Aer Lingus Travel & leisure
The carrier's woes were exacerbated after flight MH370 with 239 people on board disappeared in March while flying 
from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The disaster resulted in a dramatic fall in passenger numbers from China, which is 
one of the airline's most important markets.
The downing of flight MH17 by a surface-to-air missile near an area controlled by Russian-backed separatists in 
eastern Ukraine in July, with the loss of all 298 passengers and crew, prompted Khazanah to launch a rescue plan.
Mr Mueller spent five years at Aer Lingus, which he turned round in a weak market with measures such as 
expanding transatlantic services. He also fought off takeover attempts from Ryanair, the low-cost airline.
He will be appointed CEO-designate from January 1 and nominated as non-executive director of the MAS board.
Load-Date: December 5, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers jump 22% as it revises up profits Travel & leisure
Ryanair passenger numbers jump 22% as it revises up profits; Travel & 
leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
December 5, 2014 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 22
Length: 424 words
Byline: Joel Lewin
Body
Ryanair has offered further proof that trying to please customers is more profitable than annoying them as it 
reported that passenger numbers in November jumped 22 per cent over the past year to 6.35m.
Europe's largest budget airline also revised up profits for the fourth time this year, a stark contrast to last year when 
it issued two profit warnings as passenger numbers and fares fell.
The Irish low-cost carrier yesterday raised its full-year post-tax profit forecast to EUR810m-EUR830m, up from 
EUR750m-EUR770m. Shares jumped 8.5 per cent to EUR9.46 in early trading.
Ryanair said the improvements were due to its focus on customer service, which it has put at the forefront of its 
strategy since Michael O'Leary , chief executive, announced last year that the airline would try not to "unnecessarily 
piss people off".
The company also finalised its ambitious growth plans with the completion last week of an $11bn order for 100 
Boeing 737 Max aircraft. The aircraft will increase Ryanair's annual capacity to more than 150m passengers by 
2020.
"These new 'game-changer' aircraft will allow Ryanair to lower our costs and air fares, while improving our customer 
experience with more leg room," said Mr O'Leary.
Ryanair passenger numbers jump 22% as it revises up profits Travel & leisure
On Wednesday, the airline industry received a shot in the arm in George Osborne's Autumn Statement when the 
chancellor announced that air passenger duty would be scrapped for children under 12.
Ryanair's low-cost rival, easyJet, also reported a bumper November, with passenger numbers up 3.1 per cent year-
on-year to 4.39m.
Ryanair has thrived since it overhauled its approach to customer service in late 2013. It has scrapped charges for 
printing boarding passes, increased its carry-on baggage allowance, renovated its website and started offering 
allocated seating. This has paid dividends as the airline seeks to eat into the market share of the higher-fare, legacy 
carriers that dominate the lucrative business market. The airline's load factor - a measure of how many seats it fills - 
jumped 7 percentage points to 88 per cent in November.
Stephen Furlong, analyst at Davy, said the outlook for Ryanair was strong as "it incrementally takes profitable 
market share and generates positive free cash flow and it is clear that its business model improvements are 
working".
In October, Mr O'Leary ended speculation about his future and signed a contract keeping him at the helm for five 
years. The airline said it had taken advantage of the fall in oil prices to extend fuel hedging to 90 per cent for 2015-
16 at about EUR93 a barrel.
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
Load up
Load up
Financial Times (London, England)
December 5, 2014 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 352 words
Body
The largest UK-listed budget airlines, Ryanair and easyJet, have made a good business of digging away at the 
foundations of the flag carriers. Both eroded the price of short-haul holiday flights, forcing larger airlines to adopt 
similar discounting. Next easyJet, followed by Ryanair, took aim at the flag carriers' business customers. By doing 
so, both found another rich vein of passengers. Yesterday's November air traffic data, released by both companies, 
prompted Ryanair to upgrade its full-year earnings forecast. Share prices of both reacted positively, with Ryanair up 
8 per cent and easyJet 3 per cent.
One reason for the delight is the suggestion of less seasonality in their businesses. November falls between holiday 
travel periods. Yet load factor (passengers as a proportion of available seats) grew for both - Ryanair's by seven 
percentage points. This despite having 13 per cent more seats available than last year. Rising load factors hint that 
pricing is relatively firm.
All airlines' share prices have done well this year: the MSCI European Airlines index is up 15 per cent. Ryanair and 
easyJet have outrun this benchmark, and not just because of lower fuel prices. Ryanair and easyJet both have 
substantial fuel price protection in place for the coming year - so they cannot take full advantage of the lower fuel 
costs from falling crude. Citi thinks easyJet (with 80 per cent coverage of its fuel costs) could get a £70m lift to its 
profits, at most, and expects operating profit of £620m in 2015. Ryanair, given its even higher hedging (90 per 
cent), should benefit less still.
The real reason to own these two airlines is their stronger return on capital, which is notable given their lack of net 
debt. Their returns on invested capital (equity plus net debt) have consistently remained above larger rivals. The 
Load up
question is whether the two can sustain these relatively high returns, as their fleets expand further and they 
continue to take on the bigger airlines. The risk is that the budget carriers' ambition outruns their capital discipline.
Then they would be digging a hole for themselves.
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair says being nicer has lifted earnings
Ryanair says being nicer has lifted earnings
City A.M.
December 5, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 203 words
Byline: JOSEPH MILLIS
Body
IRISH budget airline Ryanair yesterday raised its full-year profit forecast, following a 22 per cent jump in passenger 
numbers to 6.35m people in the year to November.
The airline said it now expected profits to be between (EURO)810m and (EURO)830m (£636m-£652m), partly due 
to better customer service.
Just last month, Ryanair had raised its profit outlook by 20 per cent to a range of (EURO)750m-(EURO)770m. The 
latest profit upgrade sent shares in the airline up 8.5 per cent to (EURO)9.46.
Ryanair said improvements in customer service had brought about a stronger than expected performance in the 
first month of its winter schedule.
The results represent a turnaround for Ryanair. Last year, it was forced to issue two profit warnings as a result of 
lower passenger numbers and airfares, which chief executive Michael O'Leary blamed on "three or four years of 
austerity across Europe".
O'Leary also admitted earlier this year that his high profile abrasiveness might have put some off flying with the 
airline.
In response, Ryanair cut baggage check-in fees in an attempt to boost passenger numbers, and also allowed 
passengers to book seats for the first time in February, in a response to a similar move from rival EasyJet.
Load-Date: December 5, 2014
Ryanair says being nicer has lifted earnings
End of Document
Internet-based strategy helps boost visitor numbers
Internet-based strategy helps boost visitor numbers
Financial Times (London, England)
December 5, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - INVESTING IN PORTUGAL; Pg. 4
Length: 870 words
Byline: Alison Roberts
Highlight: Tourism Online marketing and investment in hotels and services help create more buoyant sector, writes 
Alison Roberts 
Body
Tourism has long been a key sector in Portugal's economy and its importance is growing; having held up well in the 
recession, it is rapidly diversifying away from traditional beach holidays. According to the World Travel and Tourism 
Council, by 2024 the industry should account for 20 per cent of jobs in Portugal, 13 per cent of investment and 21 
per cent of exports and services income.
Lisbon, which overtook the Algarve in terms of visitor numbers in the wake of the Euro 2004 football championship, 
is a prime city-break destination. Porto, the second city and a hub for low-cost airlines, has carved out a similar 
niche.
Around the country, 19th-century spas and rural guesthouses have been given contemporary makeovers and are 
drawing customers keen to try out new experiences.
Between January and July, according to Turismo de Portugal, the national tourist board, the number of overnight 
guests was up 11.6 per cent on the same period of 2013. All southern Europe has benefited from the impact of the 
Arab spring on tourism in north Africa, but Portugal seems to be winning more business than its rivals.
The French, in particular, are arriving in unprecedented numbers; in Lisbon they are now the largest group, with 
some hotels reporting a 30 per cent rise.
At a time when good investment returns are hard to find, the response has been enthusiastic.
Internet-based strategy helps boost visitor numbers
Deloitte, the consultancy, has forecast 12 hotels will have opened this year in Lisbon, four in central Portugal and 
10 in Porto and the north. Algarve resorts are to add six; even the rural Alentejo expects two, both five-star. Despite 
pressure on rates as capacity expands, revenue from all accommodation to July was up 10 per cent at EUR5.35bn.
Lisbon's inclusion in budget airlines' networks - first EasyJet, now Ryanair - has helped, but the country's smart 
approach to promotion in austere times has also been a factor. Eschewing costly advertising campaigns, its 
marketers woo foreign opinion makers while wringing all they can out of online analytics and social media.
The way prospective tourists research their travel plans has changed radically, says João Cotrim Figueiredo, 
president of Turismo de Portugal. "You start by thinking you may want something before knowing exactly what, and 
are immediately online, looking for inspiration," he says.
"We have a chance to be present when people start their research. Once they are ready, by clever use of online 
marketing, you can put yourself on the shortlist."
The team then actively tries to manage what happens afterwards, as tourists share their experiences online.
"The first part - the choice - we do with search engine optimisation: we pay for it," Mr Figueiredo says. "The sharing 
part, on social networks, we don't. But we try to make it viral whenever possible, and it's that buzz that's invaluable 
in ensuring that the next potential tourist has Portugal at the top of their mind when starting the process."
Success is predicated on visitors enjoying their stay: the Portuguese talent for hospitality and a balmy climate help, 
but the industry offer has also been transformed by a huge reduction in red tape. As secretary of state for tourism 
since early 2013, Adolfo Mesquita Nunes (described by one enthusiastic columnist as "the government's only 
liberal") has abolished licences for most tourist services; now, mere notification of premises or vehicle used, plus 
proof of insurance, suffice.
Meanwhile, programmes to stimulate new tourism concepts are positioning Portugal as a European start-up hub.
The result? A thousand flowers blooming in the form of funky hostels and other local accommodation, specialist 
tours and, in Lisbon, fleets of tuk-tuks offering tourist rides.
This proliferation of services and the tourism boom itself have prompted concerns over potential friction with locals 
of the kind seen in Barcelona. In general, though, the new enterprises have simply parted tourists from more of their 
money than they would otherwise have spent.
Elsewhere, there has been strong growth in wine and eco-tourism. Douro Azul, a river-cruise operator, is focusing 
on the lucrative upstream business in the Douro wine region; last year it launched two new vessels, each with more 
than 100 berths.
Portugal faces some challenges, such as the lack of direct flights from growth markets such as China and, in the 
short term, the limitations of Lisbon's airport, which is in a very built-up central area.
"By the end of 2015 it will hit capacity and they'll have to do something," says Nicolas Roucos, general manager of 
Lisbon's Inspira Santa Marta Hotel. While the global financial crisis scotched plans for a shiny new facility, he is 
among those who see bolt-on alternatives in the form of regional airfields.
Solutions to such problems will have to be found if officials are right to hope that the boom can be extended with the 
help of an online strategy.
"It's no secret that we're working closely with Google, Amazon and Facebook, so their knowledge of the consumer 
can be used to fine-tune our marketing effects," says Mr Figueiredo.
"We hope to [stay at] the forefront of this approach for years. Because these big players tell us that not many [other 
countries] are trying to do the same thing."
Internet-based strategy helps boost visitor numbers
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair soars to new high after 3rd profit upgrade
Ryanair soars to new high after 3rd profit upgrade
Associated Press Financial Wire
December 4, 2014 Thursday 12:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 329 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Ryanair keeps soaring higher and higher.
Europe's biggest budget airline announced its third profits upgrade of the year Thursday on the back of 
unexpectedly strong winter seat sales. Shares surged more than 9 percent to above 9.50 euros ($11.70), a record 
high and nearly 50 percent above the stock's price a year ago.
The Dublin-based airline said it expects net profits for the fiscal year ending in March to reach at least 810 million 
euros ($1 billion), 8 percent higher than its previous upgraded forecast issued last month. The upgrade means that, 
unusually, Ryanair now expects to score profits in the traditionally loss-making winter months.
Ryanair said it filled 88 percent of seats in November, compared to 81 percent a year ago, despite a 7 percent 
expansion of winter services. It credited strong sales of its newly introduced business-class tickets, which allow 
passengers to change their flights without penalty and to check a bag without a fee.
The airline said it now expects to carry 90 million passengers this year, 1 million more than previously forecast. 
Ryanair already operates from more than 180 airports in 30 countries across Europe and North Africa, is eyeing 
expansion opportunities into the Middle East and Russia, and plans to carry 150 million passengers annually by 
2024.
Ryanair's gains appear to be coming at the expense of higher-cost European rivals, many of which are in debt, 
cutting services and struggling to record profits.
Its main Irish competitor, Aer Lingus, announced Thursday its November business fell 3.6 percent as just 72.6 
percent of its seats were sold, down slightly from 2013.
Ryanair is Aer Lingus' biggest shareholder with a 30 percent stake. But its efforts to take control of Aer Lingus since 
the formerly state-owned airline's 2006 privatization have been blocked by European Union competition officials as 
well as by the Irish government and labor union-controlled trusts, the other two major shareholders.
Ryanair soars to new high after 3rd profit upgrade
Load-Date: December 5, 2014
End of Document
Britain 's FTSE remains steady FTSE
Britain's FTSE remains steady; FTSE
Business World (Digest)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 311 words
Highlight: British blue chips held steady early on Thursday, supported by travel and airline stocks after a number of 
encouraging corporate updates from the sector.
Body
British blue chips held steady early on Thursday, supported by travel and airline stocks after a number of 
encouraging corporate updates from the sector.
TUI Travel rose 2.9 percent, the top FTSE 100 riser, after it said profit jumped 11 percent, beating forecasts and 
that the coming tie-up with Germany's TUI AG would accelerate long-term growth.
Airline easyJet rose 2.5 percent, with traders saying sentiment in the travel and leisure sector had been boosted 
after easyJet and Irish peer Ryanair, which is not in the FTSE 100, both reported higher passenger numbers.
Ryanair was up 7.2 percent at all-time highs after lifting its profit guidance. "Both easyJet and Ryanair figures paint 
a similar picture, and in combination with the low oil price, these traffic figures are especially encouraging," Tony 
Cross, market analyst at Trustnet Direct, said. The FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure sector was up 0.9 percent, taking 
its rally since lows on Oct. 16 to over 20 percent as the sector benefits from a lower oil price. Britain's FTSE 100 
was flat in percentage terms at 6,714.76 at 0841 GMT. The index had fallen 0.4 percent in the previous session. It 
was still up 10.6 percent from a mid-October low but was 2.8 percent off the year's high of 6,904.86, set on Sept 4. 
Taking the most points off the index was GlaxoSmithKline . The heavyweight pharmaceutical fell 1 percent, enough 
to trim 2.9 points off the index, after it said it would shed "several hundred" U.S. commercial jobs and a similar 
number of research positions as it restructures operations in its biggest market, where drug sales are flagging. 
Utility Severn Trent was the top faller in percentage terms, down 1.9 percent, as it traded without entitlement to its 
latest dividend payout, along with Next , London Stock Exchange, Whtibread and Land Securities. (Reuters) For 
more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 9, 2014
Britain 's FTSE remains steady FTSE
End of Document
Ryanair raises profit forecast Ryainair
Ryanair raises profit forecast; Ryainair
Business World (Digest)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 355 words
Highlight: Ryanair raised its profit forecast for the second time in a month on Thursday after passenger numbers 
jumped 22 percent in November, a rise which it said was due in part to the improvements it has made to its much-
criticised customer service.
Body
Ryanair raised its profit forecast for the second time in a month on Thursday after passenger numbers jumped 22 
percent in November, a rise which it said was due in part to the improvements it has made to its much-criticised 
customer service.
Since a pledge last year by outspoken Chief Executive Michael O'Leary to stop "unnecessarily pissing people off," 
Ryanair has slashed penalty charges such as for excess baggage and not having a boarding pass, overhauled its 
web site, tripled its marketing budget and launched business class fares.
It attributed the stronger than expected initial winter performance to the newfound focus on customer service, a 
stronger forward booking strategy and substantial fare and unit cost advantages over other European airlines.
The Irish airline, which only last month raised its after-tax profit forecast for the year ending next March by almost 
20 percent to 750-770 million euros, said it now expects to make a profit of between 810 million and 830 million 
euros. Analysts have on average been predicting a 40 percent rise in net profits this year to 732 million euros, 
according to Thomson Reuters data. Shares in Europe's largest low-cost carrier were 7.9 percent higher at 9.42 
euros by 0858 GMT, up almost 60 percent in the past 12 months. Ryanair said that despite increasing its seat 
capacity by 13 percent in the month and opening a large number of new routes designed to appeal to business 
customers, it also increased its load factor, an indication of the number of seats sold as a percentage of capacity, 
by seven percentage points to 88 percent. It added that its final full-year profit would still be heavily reliant on 
bookings and fare yields in the January-March quarter over which it said it "presently has very little visibility". The 
improved focus on service by Ryanair and budget rival easyJet has increased the pressure on higher cost "full-
service" airlines like Air France-KLM and Lufthansa. The German airline's board approved plans on Wednesday to 
Ryanair raises profit forecast Ryainair
expand its budget flight operations against the backdrop of strikes by staff. (Reuters) For more visit: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 9, 2014
End of Document
European shares near seven-year highs EU Markets
European shares near seven-year highs; EU Markets
Business World (Digest)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 394 words
Highlight: European stocks rose on Thursday, with a benchmark index hovering near a seven-year high, helped by 
expectations the European Central Bank will embark on a sovereign bond-buying programme in coming months to 
boost the economy.
Body
European stocks rose on Thursday, with a benchmark index hovering near a seven-year high, helped by 
expectations the European Central Bank will embark on a sovereign bond-buying programme in coming months to 
boost the economy.
ECB President Mario Draghi is set to present updated forecasts for growth in output and inflation at a news 
conference following an ECB meeting on Thursday.
Investors expect Draghi to open the door wider to a U.S.-style government bond-buying scheme, seen strongly 
supportive for the equity market. He is not expected to announce such a programme on Thursday, but markets will 
scour his post-meeting news conference for any clues to when it might start.
"The ECB will probably launch a quantitative easing programme at some point," said Patrick Mange, head of 
emerging markets strategy at BNP Investment Partners, which has 497 billion euros (612 billion DOLLARS) in 
assets under management. "The liquidity that this will bring, along with the liquidity from the Bank of Japan, will 
partly offset tighter U.S. policy. There will be a bit more volatility in markets, but globally, equities are quite attractive 
versus sovereign bonds." At 1141 GMT, the FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was up 0.2 percent at 
1,402.49 points, just a few points below a near seven-year high hit in mid-September. Germany's DAX was up 0.5 
percent, at 10,022.54 points, just shy of a record high of 10,050.98 reached in June. "The latest macro data from 
Europe has been disappointing, so all eyes are now on the ECB to see what the bank will do," Barclays France 
Director Franklin Pichard said. "Draghi's speech today should set the tone for the rest of the year for the stock 
market." Shares in oil and gas firms lost ground again, as Brent crude failed to rebound above 70 dollars a barrel. 
Statoil was down 2.2 percent and BP down 1.3 percent. Ryanair featured among the top gainers, up 7.5 percent 
after the low-cost airline raised its profit forecast for the second time in a month as passenger numbers jumped 22 
European shares near seven-year highs EU Markets
percent in November. Other airlines also gained ground, with Air France-KLM up 0.7 percent and Deutsche 
Lufthansa up 1.1 percent. Airlines have been the big winners of the recent drop in oil prices as jet fuel, derived from 
crude, accounts for around a third of airlines' operating costs.(Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 9, 2014
End of Document
UK Market Advances, Sage Group Climbs
UK Market Advances, Sage Group Climbs
RTT News (United States)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 341 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market is in positive territory on Thursday, ahead of the interest rate decisions from the 
European Central Bank and Bank of England later in the day.
On the economic front, U.K house prices rose more-than-expected in November, after declining in the previous 
month, survey data from the Lloyds Banking Group unit Halifax showed.
House prices climbed 0.4 percent monthly in November, in contrast to a 0.4 percent decline in October. Economists 
had forecast a 0.3 percent rise for the month.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks added 0.50 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which 
includes some major U.K. companies, gained 0.13 percent.
The FTSE 100 index gained 0.10 percent.
Sage Group climbed 5 percent. Several analysts raised their price targets on the software firm.
TUI travel, which reported a surge in full year profit, climbed 3.4 percent.
Low-cost airline EasyJet advanced around 3 percent and Ryanair climbed 7.5 percent. Both reported traffic data for 
November, and Ryanair raised its full year profit forecast.
Miners Rio Tinto, Anglo American and BHP Billiton are losing between 2.4 percent and 1.7 percent.
Taylor Wimpey gained 3.6 percent and Barratt Developments added around 3 percent. The home builders will be 
added to the FTSE 100 index, effective December 22.
Other markets in the region are also trading higher.
The Asian stocks rose broadly as record highs on Wall Street amid fresh signs of resilience in the U.S. economy 
and continued hopes that central banks in China and Europe will unveil further stimulus encouraged investors to 
buy riskier assets.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the Dow rose 0.2 percent and the 
S&P 500 gained 0.4 percent to reach fresh record closing highs, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq added 0.4 percent.
UK Market Advances, Sage Group Climbs
Crude for January delivery gained $0.39 to $67.77 per barrel, while gold lost $4.2 to $1204.5 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
European Markets Rise Ahead Of Rate Decisions
European Markets Rise Ahead Of Rate Decisions
RTT News (United States)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 439 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are in positive territory on Thursday, ahead of the interest rate decisions from 
the European Central Bank and Bank of England later in the day.
On the economic front, U.K house prices rose more-than-expected in November, after declining in the previous 
month, survey data from the Lloyds Banking Group unit Halifax showed.
House prices climbed 0.4 percent monthly in November, in contrast to a 0.4 percent decline in October. Economists 
had forecast a 0.3 percent rise for the month.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks added 0.42 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which 
includes some major U.K. companies, gained 0.09 percent.
The German DAX rose 0.49 percent, the French CAC 40 gained 0.42 percent and the FTSE 100 index of the U.K. 
advanced 0.10 percent. Switzerland's SMI added 0.45 percent.
In Frankfurt, Infineon Technologies rose 2 percent and Lufthansa gained 1.2 percent.
Daimler added 1.6 percent, BMW advanced 1 percent and Volkswagen gained 0.9 percent.
Meanwhile, Henkel, Siemens and Beiersdorf were moderately lower.
In Paris, Renault climbed 1.9 percent and Peugeot gained nearly 3 percent.
Luxury group LVMH and contact lens maker Essilor added 1.7 percent and 1.6 percent, respectively.
Orange gathered 1.6 percent. Credit Suisse raised the stock to "Neutral" from "Underperform."
In London, Sage Group climbed 5 percent. Several analysts raised their price targets on the software firm.
TUI travel, which reported a surge in full year profit, climbed 3.4 percent.
Low-cost airline EasyJet advanced around 3 percent and Ryanair climbed 7.5 percent. Both reported traffic data for 
November, and Ryanair raised its full year profit forecast.
Miners Rio Tinto, Anglo American and BHP Billiton are losing between 2.4 percent and 1.7 percent.
European Markets Rise Ahead Of Rate Decisions
Taylor Wimpey gained 3.6 percent and Barratt Developments added around 3 percent. The home builders will be 
added to the FTSE 100 index, effective December 22.
The Asian stocks rose broadly as record highs on Wall Street amid fresh signs of resilience in the U.S. economy 
and continued hopes that central banks in China and Europe will unveil further stimulus encouraged investors to 
buy riskier assets.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the Dow rose 0.2 percent and the 
S&P 500 gained 0.4 percent to reach fresh record closing highs, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq added 0.4 percent.
Crude for January delivery lost $0.14 to $67.24 per barrel, while gold fell $6.1 to $1202.6 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Lifts Full Year Profit Forecast After Nov. Traffic Climbs 22%
Ryanair Lifts Full Year Profit Forecast After Nov. Traffic Climbs 22%
RTT News (United States)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 201 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) Thursday said its traffic in November 
climbed 22 percent to 6.35 million customers, while load factor rose by 7 percentage points to 88 percent from from 
81 percent in 2013.
Ryanair attributed this stronger than expected initial winter performance to the continuing success of its "Always 
Getting Better" customer program, stronger forward booking strategy and the airline's substantial fare and unit cost 
advantage over all other European airlines.
Considering the better than expected performance in the first month of its substantially expanded winter schedule, 
Ryanair revised its full year traffic guidance up from 89 million to just over 90 million customers.
The airline also raised its full year profit after-tax forecast from its previous range of 750 million euros to 770 million 
euros, to a new range of 810 million euros to 830 million euros.
Ryanair noted that the final full year profit will still be heavily reliant on close in bookings and yields in the fourth 
quarter over which it presently has very little visibility.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Lifts FY Profit View After Nov. Traffic Jumps; EasyJet Load Factor Up
Ryanair Lifts FY Profit View After Nov. Traffic Jumps; EasyJet Load Factor 
Up
RTT News (United States)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 341 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Low-cost airlines Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) and easyJet Plc (ESYJY.PK, EZJ.L) 
Thursday reported increases in passengers and load factor for the month of November. In addition, citing the better 
than expected performance in the first month of its substantially expanded winter schedule, Ryanair lifted its full 
year forecast for profit and traffic. Both stocks climbed significantly in early trade.
Irish low-cost airline Ryanair said its traffic in November climbed 22 percent to 6.35 million customers, while load 
factor rose by 7 percentage points to 88 percent from 81 percent in 2013.
Ryanair attributed this stronger than expected initial winter performance to the continuing success of its "Always 
Getting Better" customer program, stronger forward booking strategy and the airline's substantial fare and unit cost 
advantage over all other European airlines.
Considering the better than expected performance in the first month of its substantially expanded winter schedule, 
Ryanair revised its full year traffic guidance up from 89 million to just over 90 million customers.
The airline also raised its full year profit after-tax forecast from its previous range of 750 million euros to 770 million 
euros, to a new range of 810 million euros to 830 million euros.
Ryanair noted that the final full year profit would still be heavily reliant on close in bookings and yields in the fourth 
quarter over which it presently has very little visibility.
Meanwhile, UK-based easyJet said its passengers, representing the number of earned seats flown, for the month 
grew 3.1 percent to 4.39 million from 4.26 million in the same month last year.
Load factor advanced 0.5 percentage points to 89.5 percent from 89 percent.
For the 12 months ending November, passengers rose 6.6 percent and load factor advanced 1.5 percentage points.
RYA.L climbed 9.7 percent in early trade to 9.56 pence.
EZJ.L jumped 4.7 percent to 1,745.60 pence.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Ryanair Lifts FY Profit View After Nov. Traffic Jumps; EasyJet Load Factor Up
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Come Under Pressure Amid Disappointment With Draghi
European Stocks Come Under Pressure Amid Disappointment With Draghi
RTT News (United States)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 467 words
Body
(RTTNews) - After seeing early strength, European stocks moved mostly lower over the course of the trading day 
on Thursday. The losses on the day came after the major markets ended the previous session mixed.
The pullback by European stocks reflected a negative reaction to remarks by European Central Bank President 
Mario Draghi, who spoke to reporters following the bank's decision to keep interest rates unchanged at record lows.
While Draghi reiterated that the ECB remains committed to providing additional stimulus if needed, traders seemed 
disappointed that the bank did not adopt quantitative easing today.
Draghi said the bank's Governing Council will wait until next quarter to reassess current stimulus and specifically 
called for an evaluation of the impact of the recent drop in oil prices.
"If there is any surprise in the reaction, it is that Draghi still has enough credibility to move markets considering the 
determined opposition he faces on the governing council," said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial. "We'll 
see how long it lasts if he continues to disappoint in 2015."
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone blue chip stocks plunged by 1.7 percent. Around Europe, the U.K.'s FTSE 
100 Index fell by 0.6 percent, while the German DAX Index and the French CAC 40 Index tumbled by 1.2 percent 
and 1.6 percent, respectively.
In corporate news, U.K. travel company TUI Travel, which has agreed to merge with TUI AG, reported better than 
expected full year underlying profit.
Meanwhile, U.K. luxury retailer Mulberry reported a loss for its first half, dragged lower by higher costs and lower 
revenues.
Irish low cost airlines Ryanair reported a 22 percent increase in traffic for November and raised its profit forecast for 
the full year.
On the economic front, a report released by French statistical office INSEE showed that the jobless rate in France 
calculated based on ILO standards rose to 10.4 percent in the third quarter from 10.1 percent in the second quarter. 
Economists expected the jobless rate to come in at 10.3 percent.
European Stocks Come Under Pressure Amid Disappointment With Draghi
Many of the stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region saw considerable strength on Thursday. Japan's Nikkei 
225 Index advanced by 0.9 percent, Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index jumped by 1.7 percent and China's Shanghai 
Composite Index soared by 4.3 percent.
Meanwhile, U.S. stocks have moved mostly lower on the day amid a negative reaction to Draghi's remarks. The 
major averages have all slid into the red, with the Dow and the S&P 500 pulling back off yesterday's record closing 
highs.
In commodities trading, crude for January delivery is falling $0.89 to $66.49 a barrel, while gold for February 
delivery is inching up $0.10 to $1,208.80 an ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
Lufthansa plans low-cost departure Travel & leisure: Airline competition
Lufthansa plans low-cost departure; Travel & leisure: Airline competition
Financial Times (London, England)
December 4, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 653 words
Byline: Chris Bryant in Stuttgart
Highlight: Plans at advanced stage to be first large carrier offering a budget, long-haul service
Body
Lufthansa will press ahead with plans for new low-cost services in spite of the opposition of its pilots and doubts 
among analysts that the plan will deal decisively with intensifying competition.
The German airline's supervisory board yesterday approved the new "Eurowings" short-haul and long-haul offering 
through which the company aims to compete better against budget and Middle Eastern carriers.
Carsten Spohr , chief executive, said: "For several years now we've been facing fierce competition from the rapidly 
growing low-cost carriers . . . not only in Germany but throughout Europe, too. And we are sure to see this 
competition extend more and more to the long-haul travel segment in the years ahead".
The straight-talking qualified pilot, who previously headed the Lufthansa passenger airline business, has endured a 
turbulent first six months in charge. Lufthansa has cut profit forecasts twice and nine separate strikes have cost the 
airline more than EUR170m.
Lufthansa pilots refused to enter their cockpits again on Monday and Tuesday, disrupting the travel plans for about 
150,000 customers. They are set to strike again today. Mr Spohr apologised for "disappointing" customers.
Lufthansa plans low-cost departure Travel & leisure: Airline competition
The pilots are ostensibly protesting over changes to early retirement rules but their underlying grievances run 
deeper and concern Mr Spohr's new strategy. This involves equipping Lufthansa's little-known Eurowings 
subsidiary with 23 Airbus A320 aircraft by 2017, which will operate on direct services in Europe.
In addition, the company will start a low-cost intercontinental service in conjunction with SunExpress, its jointventure 
with Turkish Airlines. The two parties have signed a letter of intent.
The Eurowings long-haul service will initially be equipped with three leased 310-seat Airbus A330 aircraft and serve 
Florida, southern Africa and the Indian Ocean. The fleet could be expanded to seven aircraft, management said.
Lufthansa's pilots are aggrieved because the new Eurowings services will operate outside a 10-year old collective 
labour agreement, which prescribes generous pay and conditions for pilots at the flagship carrier and its lower cost 
Germanwings subsidiary.
With pilots reluctant to give up their privileges, Mr Spohr is circumventing Lufthansa's legacy cost structures in order 
that the airline can grow.
Under previous management Lufthansa took a first step to lower costs by transferring short-haul services, which do 
not feed its Frankfurt and Munich hubs, to the Germanwings brand. The shift was unpopular with some business 
customers but should enable the group to make a profit on these routes in 2015.
However, Germanwings is now facing intensifying competition from low-cost carriers. Ryanair and easyJet have 
respectively opened new bases in Cologne and Hamburg while Vueling and Norwegian Air Shuttle have also added 
Germany-Spain routes.
Germanwings' cost base is about 20 per cent below the Lufthansa brand but Eurowings is expected to be another 
20 per cent below that.
"We think it will be necessary to bring the entire non-hub operations down to Eurowings cost level to ensure a 
sustainable business model," Neil Glynn at Credit Suisse told clients.
Although Lufthansa is set be among the first major carriers to test a low-cost, long-haul service, overall it has been 
slower to take painful remedial action than some of its European rivals.
International Airlines Group, owner of British Airways, overcame strike action to turn around the performance of its 
Iberia unit. Lufthansa shares have tumbled 20 per cent since early June, compared to a 10 per cent gain at IAG.
Damian Brewer, at RBC Capital Markets, concluded: "Before doing the peripheral stuff there is a need to fix the 
fundamentals, and that means making sure the core airline's costs and productivity are competitive. Trying to face 
down the pilots is part of that, but developing new business lines risks creating a distraction."
Load-Date: December 3, 2014
End of Document
Markets fall as Draghi rejects QE before Christmas
Markets fall as Draghi rejects QE before Christmas
Citywire
December 4, 2014 Thursday 2:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 739 words
Body
Markets have fallen after European Central Bank (ECB) president Mario Draghi disappointed investors hoping for 
the launch of further stimulus measures in the eurozone.
Draghi reiterated the central bank's commitment to taking further measures to boost the eurozone's flagging 
economy, which is likely to involve buying government bonds, and said the bank had stepped up technical 
preparations for those measures.
He was also more explicit about when that decision could be taken. Draghi said the ECB would consider 'early next 
year' the impact of its existing stimulus measures as well as effect of the tumbling oil price.
But he disappointed investors hoping for the launch of further measures before Christmas.
'The governing council will reassess the monetary stimulus achieved, the expansion of the balance sheet and the 
outlook for price developments,' he said.
'We will also evaluate the broader impact of recent oil price developments on medium-term inflation trends in the 
euro area. Should it become necessary to further address risks of too prolonged a period of low inflation, the 
governing council remains unanimous in its commitment to using additional unconventional instruments within its 
mandate.'
The FTSE 100, which had been trading marginally lower ahead of Draghi's press conference, fell 30 points, or 
0.4%, to 6,687 on the news. European markets, which had been making gains in the run-up to the ECB 
announcement, fell into the red. France's CAC fell 1.4%, Italy's FTSE MIB and Spain's Ibex both dropped 1.3% and 
the German DAX 30 was trading 0.1% lower.
The ECB earlier announced interest rates would be kept unchanged, while the Bank of England has also kept rates 
on hold.
Airlines support FTSE ahead of ECB meeting 10:27 Airlines have helped to keep the FTSE 100 on an even keel as 
investors wait to see if European Central Bank (ECB) president Mario Draghi will launch more stimulus to boost the 
eurozone's flagging economy later today.
The FTSE 100 edged five points lower to 6,712, with budget airline EasyJet (EZJ) rising 2.7% to £17.13 after 
reporting a 3.1% rise in passenger numbers in November. But it was eclipsed by rival Ryanair (RYA.I), which lifted 
Markets fall as Draghi rejects QE before Christmas
the travel and leisure sector after reporting a 22% rise in passenger numbers over the same period, and raised its 
profit forecast for the second time in a month. The Irish-listed stock soared 9% to 9.50 on the news.
TUI Travel (TT) meanwhile rose to the top of the FTSE 100, up 4% to 446p, after reporting a forecast-beating 11% 
rise in profits over the year to the end of September and said its merger with German parent TUI AG (TUIGn.De) 
would accelerate growth.
British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines Group (ICAG) meanwhile inched 3.4p higher to 469.6p.
The travel sector has been boosted in recent weeks by the tumbling oil price, while airlines were yesterday handed 
a small boost from chancellor George Osborne, who cut tax on air travel for children in his Autumn Statement.
House builders meanwhile built on yesterday's rally prompted by Osborne's surprise overhaul of stamp duty on 
house purchases that he claimed would benefit 98% of home buyers. Persimmon (PSN) rose 2.6% to £15.81 while 
Barratt Developments (BDEV) and Taylor Wimpey (TW), which will be joining it in the FTSE 100 later this month, 
rose 2.7% and 3.4% to 471.4p and 136.9p respectively. Oil and gas services group Petrofac (PFC) and engineering 
company IMI (IMI) will drop into the FTSE 250 as part of the index shake-up.
Other house builder stocks to rise up the FTSE 250 included:
Bellway (BWY) +3.5% to £19.25 Bovis Homes (BVS) +2.6% to £25.33 Redrow (RDW) +2.6% to 288.9p Crest 
Nicholson (CRST) +3.1% to 370.1p Berkeley (BKGH), which focuses on the London housing market feared to be 
worst hit by Osborne's measures, recovered losses made yesterday to trade 2.6% higher at £25.33. The chancellor 
said yesterday only those buying properties worth £937,000 or more would be worse off as a result of the changes.
Annuity provider Just Retirement (JRG) rose 2.6% to 144.5p, continuing to makes gains on the Autumn Statement's 
tax cut for joint life annuity payments made after a partner has died.
Investors were meanwhile looking towards the outcome of today's ECB meeting, where president Mario Draghi 
could announce further stimulus measures. European markets have edged higher on anticipation the central bank 
could launch a full-blown quantitative easing programme.
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches electronic flight bags for pilots
Ryanair launches electronic flight bags for pilots
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 3, 2014 Wednesday 9:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 276 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched electronic flight bags, or EFB, for all pilots across its entire fleet of 300 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft.
Body
Ryanair pilots will now use iPads in place of traditional flight manuals. As part of its "Always Getting Better" 
programme, Ryanair pilots now have full electronic use of Boeing's Onboard Performance Tool (OPT), which 
includes take-off performance calculations, as well as instant access to the most up to date electronic flight 
manuals, which will further improve time management and productivity, reducing dependency on paper products. 
These two applications are the first in a suite of products that Ryanair is preparing to roll out over the coming 
months, including electronic charts and load sheets, subject to testing and approval from the Irish Aviation 
Authority. Over the coming months, Ryanair plans to remove paper from the flight deck, eliminating 15kgs of 
manuals from each cockpit, and with Ryanair operating over 550,000 flights annually, creating fuel savings, while 
also eliminating more than 10 million pages of paper documentation, reaffirming Ryanair's position as Europe's 
greenest and cleanest airline. Ryanair's Group Director of Operations, Michael Hickey said: "With a rapidly growing 
operation across 71 European bases, the logistical challenges of delivering information to crew are instantly 
simplified with the introduction of the iPad as an Electronic Flight Bag. This is yet another display of Ryanair's 
commitment to improving our already outstanding operational performance. "Ryanair recognises the value of this 
cutting edge technology as a powerful and flexible solution. Our progression towards a paperless flight deck has 
efficiency benefits recognised across the industry. A paperless cockpit is an efficient cockpit."
Load-Date: December 9, 2014
End of Document
CORPORATE WATCH
CORPORATE WATCH
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
December 2, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 5
Length: 40 words
Byline: ANGELA CHEN
Body
ABSTRACT
Ryanair Holdings has finalized order for 100 Boeing 737 MAX jets, with list price of $11 billion before typical 
discounts;  Ryanair will be launch customer for roomier 737 MAX 200 aircraft, which it hopes will bring in more 
revenue (S)
Load-Date: December 3, 2014
End of Document
Shannon Airport performing strongly; Aviation
Shannon Airport performing strongly; Aviation
Business World (Digest)
December 1, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 249 words
Highlight: Michael O'Leary has commended the government for the abolition of taxes at Shannon Airport according 
to a press release issued by Fine Gael. It quotes Mr O'Leary as saying that "there is huge potential for Shannon to 
grow in 2015."
Body
Michael O'Leary has commended the government for the abolition of taxes at Shannon Airport according to a press 
release issued by Fine Gael. It quotes Mr O'Leary as saying that "there is huge potential for Shannon to grow in 
2015."
Ryanair are currently preparing their new schedules and routes for the second half of 2015 and plan to make 
Shannon an integral part of their business.
Pat Breen, Chairman of the Oireachtas Committee on Foreign Affairs and Trade has said the commitment of 
Ryainair to Shannon is great news for the airport and the surrounding counties, "Mr O'Leary said that Ryanair are 
proud to be associated with Shannon and he commended the Government for its foresight when it abolished the 
travel tax. Ryanair added 10 new routes to Shannon since the air travel tax was abolished and they will carry an 
additional 300,000 passengers through Shannon in the year to March 2015.
"Mr O'Leary said that the abolition of the travel tax was a brave decision by Michael Noonan, considering that it 
brought in over 30 million euro in revenue. The consequence of that decision however is that the additional VAT 
brought in by the extra flights amounts to 40 million euro, far exceeding any revenue lost. That's even before the 
estimated additional tourism spend of 220 million euro is taken into account. All in, the decision to abolish the travel 
tax has been hugely beneficial for tourism in this country and has benefited nearby counties like Clare." For more 
visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
Shannon Airport performing strongly; Aviation
End of Document
FTSE hits one-week low FTSE
FTSE hits one-week low; FTSE
Business World (Digest)
December 1, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 330 words
Highlight: Britain's top stock index fell sharply to its lowest level in more than a week on Monday, with commodity 
shares slumping following a steep decline in prices of industrial and precious metals and crude oil.
Body
Britain's top stock index fell sharply to its lowest level in more than a week on Monday, with commodity shares 
slumping following a steep decline in prices of industrial and precious metals and crude oil.
Sentiment worsened after Chinese economic data disappointed further, compounding global slowdown jitters. An 
official reading showed growth in China's factories slowed more than expected in November, while a private sector 
survey showed momentum stalled.
Oil fell more than dollar 2 a barrel to a five-year low, extending a sell-off after OPEC decided not to cut production 
last week, gold slid 2 percent after Swiss voters rejected a proposal to boost central bank gold reserves and copper 
tumbled to its lowest in four-and-a-half years.
"Mining and energy stocks have given up considerable ground on the back of China manufacturing data, confirming 
a slowing of economic growth and adding to existing commodity weakness," Mike van Dulken, head of research at 
Accendo Markets, said. The UK Oil and Gas index fell 2.2 percent, while the mining index slipped 2.7 percent. 
Shares in BG Group Weir Group, Randgold Resources , BHP Billiton and Anglo American, down 2.8 to 4.5 percent, 
were among the top decliners. Tullow Oil fell 7.2 percent, further hit by a cut in its target share price by Citigroup 
and JPMorgan. The blue-chip FTSE 100 index fell 0.9 percent to 6,659.52 points by 0859 GMT after falling as much 
as 6,650.22, the lowest since Nov. 20. It is down 1.3 percent this year. However, lower oil prices helped airline 
stocks. British low-cost airline easyJet, Ryanair and British Airways owner IAG rose between 1.3 and 2.4 percent. 
Aberdeen Asset Management was up 1 percent after saying underlying pre-tax profit rose 2 percent to 490 million 
pounds (dollar 766 million) in its financial year to Sept. 30. However, it reported a 20 billion pounds (dollar 31.3 
billion) of net outflows, citing weakness in emerging markets. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
FTSE hits one-week low FTSE
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
End of Document
European stocks knocked lower EU
European stocks knocked lower; EU
Business World (Digest)
December 1, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 291 words
Highlight: European shares fell on Monday, led lower by oil and mining stocks, as weak Chinese and euro zone 
economic data fueled a rout in the commodities market.
Body
European shares fell on Monday, led lower by oil and mining stocks, as weak Chinese and euro zone economic 
data fueled a rout in the commodities market.
Shares in UK telecom group Vodafone sank 4.4 percent on talk it would bid for cable operator Liberty Global .
Sources said Vodafone is reviewing potential acquisitions, including Liberty Global, to counter pending 
consolidation among rivals in Britain.
At 1300 GMT, the FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was down 0.6 percent at 1,384.27 points. Shares 
in oil majors and oil services companies sank as Brent crude oil tumbled to a five-year low below dollar 68 a barrel. 
Fugro fell 2.6 percent, ENI 1.6 percent and Royal Dutch Shell 0.8 percent. The STOXX Europe 600 energy sector 
index has fallen into bear market territory, down 23 percent since late June. That amounts to wiping out market 
capitalisation of roughly dollar 250 billion - more than the entire market value of Shell, according to Reuters data. 
Mining shares also dropped, falling along with copper prices, which tumbled to a 4 1/2-year low, hurt by signs of 
slowing factory growth in Europe and China. BHP Billiton fell 2.2 percent and Rio Tinto dropped 1.4 percent. Data 
showed that manufacturing slowed more than expected in China in November and stalled in the euro zone, where 
new orders fell at the fastest pace in 19 months. Bucking the trend, shares in airlines rallied on Monday. Air France 
rose 0.4 percent and Ryanair 1.3 percent. Fuel accounts for around a third of airlines' operating costs. Germany's 
biggest utility, E.ON, rose 4.1 percent after announcing plans to split in two and spin off most of its power 
generation, energy trading and upstream businesses. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 4, 2014
European stocks knocked lower EU
End of Document
Analysis: Minsheng plans Hong Kong expansion
Analysis: Minsheng plans Hong Kong expansion
AirFinance Journal
December 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: ASIA PACIFIC & AUSTRALASIA,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,LESSORS,ANALYSIS,HONG KONG (SAR OF 
CHINA)
Length: 777 words
Byline: Dickon Harris
Highlight: Airfinance Journal sits down with Minsheng Financial Leasing's vice-president Kai Qiao, who is in 
charge of the firm's shipping and aviation business, to discuss its aircraft leasing ambitions.
Body
Kai Qiao, Minsheng Financial Leasing's vice president,the man in charge of both shippingand aviation at the 
company, stresses its commercialaircraft leasing arm is "key" for the firm'slong-term growth.
Minsheng began leasing commercial aircraftin 2013, and owns a portfolio of 27 commercialaircraft through both 
portfolio acquisition andsale/leasebacks. These include Airbus A320s andA330s, Boeing 737s, as well as two cargo 
aircraft.In 2014 the lessor counted full-service carriers,such as China Eastern and China Airlines, andlow-cost 
carriers, such as Ryanair and NorwegianAir, among its clients. The firm also recently purchasedtwo aircraft on 
lease to Pegasus Airlines,the Turkish carrier, from Avolon.
Sources at Minsheng confirm the lessor iskeen to expand the range of its commercialaircraft financings to 
encompass export creditagency financings, mezzanine debt and, eventually,capital market issuances.
Airfinance Journal: What are Minsheng'simmediate plans?
Kai Qiao: For the second five-year plan towards2018 we want to build up our own aviation businessand make sure 
we are a significant player forboth bizjets and commercial aircraft. No matterhow much change is happening in the 
market, wewill still continue in this commercial aircraft businessbecause it is key for us to grow our assets.
Is the market much harder now to acquireaircraft?For the business jet side we have confidence wecan reach our 
target; for commercial aircraft weare still new to this market as we entered last year[2013]. We are still in the stage 
where we are tryingto work out how to distinguish ourselves fromother lessors.
We are still in the stage where we are buildingup our team and we are also perfecting our internalprocess. That is 
why during this period we arelessor profileMinsheng plans Hong Kongexpansionnot simply pursuing asset growth 
very quickly. Wetry to find some good market opportunities andmake some smart deals. At a later stage we 
mayconsider some big asset growth, including possiblymaking some mergers and acquisitions.
You have a shipping background. Howdoes shipping compare with commercialaviation?
Analysis: Minsheng plans Hong Kong expansion
They have something in common in that they areboth cyclical businesses. They have their peaksand their troughs. 
Compared to commercialaircraft, shipping is more volatile. Regardless ofthe cyclicality there are always market 
opportunitiesthat you can seize, and get cheaper assets togain margins. So you need to always look aroundthe 
market, and try to tap that information, andseize the market.
For shipping there are more types of classesof assets than aviation so there is less standardization,so there is a lot 
more variety and morespeculative opportunities. Some shipping orderswill give you a very good return but of 
coursethere is more risk.Recently we started researching the type ofaircraft and the particular assets we might want 
toorder. We want to develop an approach to growour assets. So far we don't have any definitiveanswers, because it 
will take some time for us todo this research, which will include client analysisand current portfolio analysis. 
Execution is alsosomething the manufacturer takes very seriouslywhen we discuss potential orders.
So is an order likely for Minsheng?
Internally, we have a clear plan that we want tomake this kind of order, but it is not 100% ourdecision. The order 
slots are very poor for themanufacturers, for Airbus and Boeing, for thepopular types of aircraft. They are very busy 
withthe orders. We suspect it will take another four orfive years to get deliveries, even if we make theorder today.If 
you were thinking about the market fouror five years ahead it would take more consideration:will the assets even be 
popular at that time,and will the market support that order becauseyou have to place the aircraft? Also, we are at 
thestage where we are picking out our own internalbusiness model. We need to make sure that anyorder we make 
is going to be in line with ourbusiness strategy. This is not something we willmake a snapshot judgment on. We 
want to takeconsideration of the risk.
Are you considering the Neo or the Max?Are you still looking at classics?We are more inclined to the new-
technologytypes.
What is next for Minsheng?
We have our on-shore platform in Tianjin, sowhat we are going to do is have our Hong Kongsubsidiary focusing on 
aviation and anothersubsidiary focused on shipping in Singapore. InIreland we are preparing our Ireland office 
foraviation. We are in the middle of applying forour overseas subsidiaries from CBR, the ChineseBanking regulatory 
committee. Once we havea legitimate entity established, we will definitelyconsider an overseas bond issuance.
dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: January 12, 2015
End of Document
Boeing Finalizes Order For 100 737 MAX 200s With Launch Customer Ryanair
Boeing Finalizes Order For 100 737 MAX 200s With Launch Customer 
Ryanair
RTT News (United States)
December 1, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 633 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Aerospace giant Boeing, Inc. (BA) finalized Monday an order for 100 737 MAX 200 aircraft from low-
cost Irish airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L) that is valued at $11 billion at current list prices. The order, which 
includes options for 100 additional 737 MAX 200 airplanes, was initially committed in September.
Ryanair is the launch customer for the 737 MAX 200 aircraft that is the newest member of the 737 MAX family, 
which has 11 additional seats that will lead to a total seating of up to 200.
"These new 'gamechanger' aircraft will allow Ryanair to lower our costs and airfares, while improving our customer 
experience with more leg room and the Boeing Sky Interior, as we roll out new offers, particularly for our Business 
Plus and Family Extra customers," Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said in a statement.
The new aircraft order will enable Ryanair to expand its fleet to about 520 aircraft by 2024 and create another 
10,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in Europe. It will also boost its traffic to over 150 million by 
2024 from the 82 million passengers last year.
Dublin-based Ryanair, Europe's largest budget airline, said the aircraft variant will enable it to grow at many more of 
Europe's primary airports even as many of Europe's flag carriers cut capacity on short haul routes.
The airline currently operates an all-Boeing fleet of more than 300 next-generation 737-800s. It took delivery of its 
first 737 in 1994. This will be Ryanair's first order for the 737 MAX family aircrafts.
Ryanair had last year finalized an order for 175 current generation 737-800s, which will expand Ryanair's fleet to 
more than 400 737-800s.
Ryanair describes itself as Europe's favorite low fares airline, operating more than 1,600 daily flights connecting 
186 destinations in 30 countries.
Boeing's 737 MAX, the top selling narrow-body single-aisle planes, competes with the A320neo's manufactured by 
Boeing's European rival Airbus Group N.V. (EADSF, EADSY). The 737 MAX is a new-engine variant of the world's 
best selling Boeing 737 airplane and builds on the strengths of Next-Generation 737.
Boeing Finalizes Order For 100 737 MAX 200s With Launch Customer Ryanair
Boeing's 737 MAX family of aircrafts are powered with the latest-technology LEAP-1B engines from CFM 
International, a joint venture of General Electric Co. (GE) and Safran SA. Meanwhile, the A320neos offer a choice 
of engines either from CFM or Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp. (UTX).
Chicago, Illinois-based Boeing, which breached the 2000 mark for orders for 737 MAXs in May 2014, said its orders 
for the 737 MAX currently stand at 2,550 from more than 50 customers.
The unprecedented demand for 737 MAXs is fueled by air traffic growth and the need for more fuel-efficient 
airplanes. The aircraft has been quite popular due to its 14 percent more fuel efficiency and lowest operating costs 
with an eight percent operating cost per seat advantage over tomorrow's competition.
The 737 MAX 200 will further improve operating costs by about 5 percent as it will accommodate an additional 11 
seats, increasing revenue potential and providing customers up to 20 percent better fuel efficiency per seat than 
today's most efficient single-aisle airplanes.
"The 737 MAX 200 will be a excellent addition to Ryanair's all-Boeing fleet, providing the additional capacity, 
improved economics and high-levels of reliability that are required for its continued expansion," said Todd Nelp, 
vice president of European Sales, Boeing Commercial Airplanes.
Boeing said the fast growing low-cost sector is forecasted to account for 35 percent of single-aisle airline capacity 
by 2033.
BA closed Friday's regular trading session at $134.36, up $0.85 on a volume of 2.09 million shares.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 1, 2014
End of Document
Boeing Announces Order For 100 737 MAX 200s From Ryanair - Quick Facts
Boeing Announces Order For 100 737 MAX 200s From Ryanair - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
December 1, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 151 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Boeing (BA) and Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced they have finalized an order for 100 737 MAX 
200s, valued at $11 billion at current list prices. The order, originally announced as a commitment in September, 
includes options for 100 additional 737 MAX 200 airplanes.
The 737 MAX 200, a variant based on the 737 MAX 8, can accommodate up to 200 seats, increasing revenue 
potential and providing customers up to 20 percent better fuel efficiency per seat than the single-aisle airplanes.
"Ryanair is proud and honored to become the lead operator of Boeing's 'gamechanger' 737 MAX 200 aircraft, which 
will expand our fleet to approximately 520 aircraft by 2024, while allowing us to grow traffic from 82 million 
passengers last year to over 150 million by 2024," said Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: December 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair firms order for 737 Max 200s
Ryanair firms order for 737 Max 200s
AirFinance Journal
December 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS,IRELAND,USA
Length: 49 words
Highlight: The Irish carrier has ordered 100 jets from Boeing.
Body
Ryanair has firmed an order for 100 Boeing 737 Max 200 airplanes.
The order was announced as a commitment in September, and included the option of 100 additional 737 MAX 200s 
being purchased by Ryanair.
The aircraft is valued at $11 billion, based on present list prices.
jack.dutton@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: December 22, 2014
End of Document
Capitol Buzz: December 1, 2014
Capitol Buzz: December 1, 2014
Newstex Blogs
Capitol Buzz - Washington State House Republicans
December 1, 2014 Monday 6:24 PM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 3806 words
Body
Dec 01, 2014 (Capitol Buzz - Washington State House Republicans:http://houserepublicans.wa.gov/news/ 
Delivered by Newstex)
            http://houserepublicans.wa.gov/capitol-buzz
            www.houserepublicans.wa.gov
            http://www.facebook.com/wahouserepublicans/            http://www.twitter.com/wahousegop/            
http://www.pinterest.com/wahousegop/            http://flickr.com/photos/wahousegop/            
http://www.youtube.com/wahouserepublicans/            http://www.delicious.com/wahousegop/            
https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/capitol-report-washington/id579017734
 AGRICULTURE WATER
State traps find no vineyard pests (AP/The Spokesman-Review)[1] OPINION: Agriculture remains economic power 
in county (Ron Dunning, Port of Walla Walla Commisssion/Walla Walla Union-Bulletin)[2]
BORDER STATES
Union walks off the job at Port of Portland: Is a strike or lockout next? (Puget Sound Business Journal)[3] 
EDITORIAL: The Oregon Legislature should help in establishing the marijuana market (Oregonian)[4]
BUDGET TAXES
OPINION: Don't rob higher education to fund other education mandates (Stan Barer, attorney and former regent at 
the University of Washington, and Hugh Spitzer, teaches state constitutional law at the University of Washington 
School of Law/The Seattle Times)[5] OPINION: Funding K-12 education will require multiple solutions (State Sen. 
Kevin Ranker, D-Orcas Island/The Bellingham Herald)[6] OPINION: Opportunity in conservation (Garry Schalla, 
Okanogan Land Trust/The Wenatchee World)[7] COLUMN: California golden again   and we're the fiscal mess 
(Danny Westneat/The Seattle Times)[8] EDITORIAL: Allow sales tax break for electric cars to expire (The Everett 
Herald)[9]
BUSINESS, LABOR ECONOMY
Port problems hurt Washington apple exports (The Spokesman-Review)[10] West Coast port slowdown continues 
as holiday period reduces activities further (The News Tribune)[11] Aviation insiders aren't worried about change in 
Congress (The Everett Herald)[12] Ryanair finalizes 737 MAX 200 Boeing order (The News Tribune)[13] Cram 
them in: Boeing-Ryanair finalize 100 737 Max 200 order (Puget Sound Business Journal)[14] Competing airlines 
back off at Sea-Tac as Delta, Alaska joust for dominance (Puget Sound Business Journal)[15] Protests force 
Westlake Center to close early on the busiest shopping day of the year (Puget Sound Business Journal)[16] 
Capitol Buzz: December 1, 2014
Amazon: Now with 15,000 robots at its distribution centers (Puget Sound Business Journal)[17] Spotlight on 
Nadella at Microsoft shareholder meeting (Puget Sound Business Journal)[18] Seattle salaries: How does yours 
compare? (Seattle P-I)[19] BLOG: Minimum-wage rally planned for Thursday in Olympia (Joe O'Sullivan/The 
Seattle Times)[20] EDITORIAL: Should we raise Washington's minimum wage? (Pro: Kathleen McKenzie, Working 
Washington/ Con: Emory Cole, former mayor of Mukilteo)[21] EDITORIAL: Greed may put firms out of business 
(Walla Walla Union-Bulletin)[22] EDITORIAL: Buy local, and keep dollars here (The Wenatchee World)[23]
COMMUNITY FAMILY ISSUES
Jesse Jackson urges crowd in Seattle to keep protests going (The Seattle Times)[24] People stepping up to adopt a 
Carlton Complex family (The Wenatchee World)[25]
COURTS, CRIME LAW ENFORCEMENT
Local police have no plans to use body cameras (Walla Walla Union-Bulletin)[26] Prison program helps inmates 
practice sustainability (Walla Walla Union-Bulletin)[27] Yakima Valley agencies differ on how to handle officer-
involved shooting investigations (Yakima Herald-Republic)[28] Two arrested for human trafficking near Tumwater 
(The Chronicle)[29] Sheriff Mansfield prepares for exit from sheriff's office (The Chronicle)[30] BLOG: 'The Long 
Night' film sheds real light on sex trafficking in Seattle, King County (Thanh Tan/The Seattle Times)[31] 
EDITORIAL: Give us a clearer image of police actions (The Olympian)[32] EDITORIAL: Privacy vs. the public good 
(The Columbian)[33]
EDUCATION (K-12) SCHOOL SAFETY
Nutrition rules lead to skinnier profits at local student stores (The Daily News)[34] R.A. Long, MM students find little 
appeal in new school lunches (The Daily News)[35] Fight continues over Washington's No Child Left Behind waiver 
(The News Tribune)[36] Nyland considered for Seattle schools chief job (Herald staff and AP/The Everett 
Herald)[37] OPINION: Middle school shows the way to keeping kids in school (Jay Jordan, principal of Bellingham's 
Shuksan Middle School/The Bellingham Herald)[38]
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS SERVICES
County fire academy disbands (Kitsap Sun)[39] PSE continues work following weekend storm (Kitsap Sun)[40] 
Homes crushed, power dashed by snow and winds Saturday (Kitsap Sun)[41]
ENERGY UTILITIES
What stricter clean-fuel rule could mean for state, consumers (The Seattle Times)[42] Rail expert to speak on oil 
transportation safety (The Daily News)[43] EDITORIAL: Study against nuclear power plant lacks credibility (Tri-City 
Herald)[44] EDITORIAL: Washington should not invest in coal (The Olympian)[45]
ENVIRONMENT NATURAL RESOURCES
Lake Cle Elum proposal geared to help efforts to recover native fishery (Yakima Herald-Republic)[46] Lake 
Whatcom pollution report still imposes strict cleanup requirement (The Bellingham Herald)[47] Olympic National 
Forest uses infrared technology to monitor trail use (Kitsap Sun)[48] As climate warms, more outbreaks of disease 
for sea life (The Seattle Times)[49] Could Puget Sound become too acidic for shellfish? New website tracks ocean 
acidification in real time (Puget Sound Business Journal)[50] Inslee promotes electric cars to tackle pollution 
(AP/The Everett Herald)[51] OPINION: 'Greener' fuels not yet worth the risks (State Sen. Curtis King/The Everett 
Herald)[52] OPINION: Gov. Inslee and Carbon Emissions Reduction Taskforce should carefully consider climate 
policy (Mike Elliott, labor activist and spokesman for the Washington State Legislative Board of the Brotherhood of 
Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen/The Seattle Times)[53] EDITORIAL: Give a gift that sustains life on Earth (The 
Olympian)[54]
GAMBLING
As tribal gaming booms, fewer gamblers pick up pull tabs (The News Tribune)[55]
GUN RIGHTS
Expanded gun background checks begin Thursday (AP/The Spokesman-Review)[56]
HANFORD
Funds for Hanford plant in doubt (AP/The Spokesman-Review)[57] EDITORIAL: Better safeguards needed for 
Hanford nuclear tank-farm workers (The Seattle Times)[58]
HEALTH CARE
State seeks feedback on plan for Alzheimer's (Daily Record)[59] IsoRay presents 'striking' brain cancer test results; 
stock soars (Puget Sound Business Journal)[60] Doc will 'see' you now (Puget Sound Business Journal)[61] 
Exchange picks up speed in two weeks (Puget Sound Business Journal)[62] OPINION: Doctors must learn to talk 
Capitol Buzz: December 1, 2014
about death, end-of-life care options (Michael Bradburn, president of the Whatcom Hospice Foundation Board of 
Directors/The Bellingham Herald)[63]
HIGHER EDUCATION
UW gives future engineers a 'redshirt season' (The Seattle Times)[64] WWU president goes to China, Mongolia to 
boost school profile (The Seattle Times)[65] Auditors fault South Puget Sound Community College for serving 
alcohol (The Olympian)[66] CWU hosting HIV/AIDS event (Daily Record)[67] FedEx donates three retired Boeing 
727s to Washington colleges, fire department (Puget Sound Business Journal)[68] ?Whitman College's incoming 
president (Puget Sound Business Journal)[69] Eastern Washington's president Mary Cullinan (Puget Sound 
Business Journal)[70] To infinity and - wait, not that high (Puget Sound Business Journal)[71] Washington colleges 
ramp up tech, health efforts (Puget Sound Business Journal)[72]
IMMIGRATION
Local immigration-reform advocates call for permanent fix (The Wenatchee World)[73]
LAND USE PROPERTY RIGHTS
Growth game: Housing prices challenge Puget Sound (Crosscut.com)[74]
LEGISLATURE
Manweller elected to GOP leadership spot (Daily Record)[75] Ethics Board to consider if lawmakers should report 
free meals (NW News Network)[76] EDITORIAL: Note To Legislature: Hands off the initiative process (The 
Chronicle)[77]
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Mill Creek city manager on paid leave pending firing (The Everett Herald)[78] Wolfe takes his place as Kitsap 
County commissioner (Kitsap Sun)[79] Bellingham planners hope to speed up process that approves construction 
projects (The Bellingham Herald)[80] EDITORIAL: Forethought lacking in Moses Lake's excise tax decision 
(Columbia Basin Herald)[81] EDITORIAL: Restore funding for First Steps (The Everett Herald)[82] EDITORIAL: 
Investigate alleged hostile comments by county's deputy exec (The Everett Herald)[83]
MARIJUANA
Prospective marijuana retailer sues state Liquor Control Board over Kennewick ban (Tri-City Herald)[84] Union Gap 
pot shops not drawing crime, police say (Yakima Herald-Republic)[85] Centralia pot lawsuit officially dead (The 
Chronicle)[86] Lewis County pot licensee sues Liquor Control Board (The Chronicle)[87] Drive high, keep your 
license? State officials want fix in law (The News Tribune)[88] Washington researchers developing breath test for 
marijuana's THC (Oregonian)[89] Breath test to detect pot is being developed at WSU (The Olympian)[90] How the 
proposed medical marijuana laws would affect dispensaries (Puget Sound Business Journal)[91] That pot shop next 
door might have to move: Seattle's new law (Puget Sound Business Journal)[92]
MEDIA
EDITORIAL: It's essential that Forest Service make access for journalists clear (The Spokesman-Review)[93]
MILITARY
Army wants to build special drone airstrip (Daily Record)[94] EDITORIAL: Defense cuts make sense (The 
Columbian)[95]
OSO LANDSLIDE
Panel to hold last meeting on safety recommendations after Oso mudslide (The Everett Herald)[96]
POLITICS
 BALLOT MEASURES
Tougher gun background-check law takes effect this week (AP/The Seattle Times)[97] EDITORIAL: NRA needs to 
keep hands off Initiative 594 (The Seattle Times)[98] EDITORIAL: I-1351 vs. two-year colleges -- and much else 
(The News Tribune)[99]
STATE
Ex-GOP leader, talk-show host Kirby Wilbur trains young journalists to be objective (The Seattle Times)[100]
 SECURITY
Cybersecurity: Public sector's growing concerns and Washington's growing industry: Part 1 (Washington State 
Wire)[101]
STATE GOVERNMENT 
WSDOT agrees to pay $500K to settle suit (The Columbian)[102]
TRANSPORTATION
Capitol Buzz: December 1, 2014
Search for new transit leader goes nationwide (The Everett Herald)[103] EDITORIAL: With Washington roads in 
poor shape, tax breaks need scrutiny (The Spokesman-Review)[104]
TRIBES
Gas tax collection remains sticking point for Yakamas, state (Yakima Herald-Republic)[105] Two Yakama tribal 
officials suspended (Yakima Herald-Republic)[106]
You can read our Capitol Buzz policy here[107].
Washington State House Republican Communications[108]
461 John L. O'Brien Building
P.O. Box 40600
Olympia, WA 98504-0600
(360) 786-5758
 [1]: http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2014/nov/30/state-traps-find-no-vineyard-pests/ [2]:            http://union-
bulletin.com/news/2014/nov/29/column-agriculture-remains-economic-power-county/ 
[3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/news/2014/11/26/union-walks-off-the-job-at-port-of-portland-is-a.html [4]:            
http://www.oregonlive.com/opinion/index.ssf/2014/11/the_legislature_should_help_in.html 
[5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://seattletimes.com/html/opinion/2025124962_spitzeropedhighered30xml.html 
[6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://sdc.wastateleg.org/ranker/ [7]:            http://www.wenatcheeworld.com/news/2014/nov/27/opportunity-in-
conservation/ [8]:            http://seattletimes.com/html/localnews/2025125656_westneat30xml.html [9]:            
http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141201/OPINION01/141209967/Allow-sales-tax-break-for-electric-cars-to-expire 
[10]:            http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2014/nov/27/port-problems-hurt-washington-apple-exports/ [11]:       
  
 
 
 
http://www.thenewstribune.com/2014/11/26/3510311/west-coast-port-slowdown-
continues.html?sp=/99/261/1244/ [12]:            http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141201/BIZ/141209952/Aviation-
insiders-aren [13]:            http://www.thenewstribune.com/2014/12/01/3517728/ryanair-finalizes-737-max-
200.html?sp=/99/261/1470/ [14]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/morning_call/2014/12/cram-them-in-
boeing-ryanair-finalize-100-737.html [15]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/news/2014/11/26/smaller-
airlines-back-off-at-sea-tac-as-delta.html [16]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/blog/2014/11/protests-
force-westlake-center-to-close-early-on.html 
[17]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/blog/techflash/2014/12/amazon-now-with-15-000-robots-at-its-distribution.html 
[18]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-edition/2014/11/28/spotlight-on-adella-at-microsoft-
shareholder.html [19]:            http://www.seattlepi.com/local/article/Seattle-salaries-How-does-yours-compare-
5922664.php [20]:            http://blogs.seattletimes.com/politicsnorthwest/2014/11/29/minimum-wage-rally-planned-
for-thursday-in-olympia/ [21]:            http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141130/OPINION03/141139978/Should-
we-raise-Washingtons-minimum-wage [22]:            http://union-bulletin.com/news/2014/nov/30/editorial-greed-may-
put-firms-out-business/ [23]:            http://www.wenatcheeworld.com/news/2014/nov/30/buy-local-and-keep-dollars-
here/ [24]:            http://seattletimes.com/html/localnews/2025138456_jessejacksonspeech1xml.html [25]:            
http://www.wenatcheeworld.com/news/2014/nov/29/people-stepping-up-to-adopt-a-carlton-complex-family/ 
[26]:       
     http://union-bulletin.com/news/2014/nov/27/local-police-have-no-plans-use-body-cameras/ [27]:            
http://union-bulletin.com/news/2014/nov/30/prison-program-helps-inmates-practice-sustainabili/ [28]:            
http://www.yakimaherald.com/news/latestlocalnews/1941653-8/yakima-valley-agencies-differ-on-how-to-handle 
[29]:            http://www.chronline.com/news/article_1ee12f7e-7786-11e4-80b6-4fba000735aa.html [30]:            
http://www.chronline.com/news/article_9bcdd52e-778a-11e4-870d-bfa0c2277d22.html 
[31]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://blogs.seattletimes.com/opinionnw/2014/12/01/the-long-night-film-sheds-real-light-on-sex-trafficking-in-seattle-
king-county/ [32]:            http://www.theolympian.com/2014/12/01/3447554/give-us-a-clearer-image-of-
police.html?sp=/99/109/207/ [33]:            http://www.columbian.com/news/2014/nov/30/privacy-vs-the-public-good/ 
[34]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://tdn.com/news/local/nutrition-rules-lead-to-skinnier-profits-at-local-student-
stores/article_b6731980-7829-11e4-9060-97221fcf6089.html [35]:            http://tdn.com/news/local/r-a-long-mm-
students-find-little-appeal-in-new/article_8ff52408-7827-11e4-b078-cf208a3e7d59.html 
[36]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.thenewstribune.com/2014/11/30/3517076/fight-continues-over-washingtons.html?sp=/99/296/ [37]:            
http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141129/NEWS01/141129126 
[38]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.bellinghamherald.com/2014/12/01/3991464/middle-school-shows-the-way-to.html?sp=/99/122/291/ [39]:       
     http://www.kitsapsun.com/news/local-news/county-fire-academy-disbands_20867296 [40]:            
http://www.kitsapsun.com/news/local-news/pse-continues-work-following-weekend-storm_65583308 [41]:            
http://www.kitsapsun.com/news/homes-crushed-power-dashed-by-snow-and-winds-saturday_46378537 [42]:            
Capitol Buzz: December 1, 2014
http://seattletimes.com/html/localnews/2025138256_cleanerfuelsqaxml.html 
[43]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://tdn.com/news/local/rail-expert-to-speak-on-oil-transportation-safety/article_2e078a10-78f9-11e4-9ada-
ff87b6583a77.html [44]:            http://www.tri-cityherald.com/2014/11/30/3285085/our-voice-study-against-
nuclear.html?sp=/99/1426/962/ [45]:            http://www.theolympian.com/2014/11/30/3445621/washington-should-
not-invest-in.html?sp=/99/109/207/ [46]:            http://www.yakimaherald.com/news/latestlocalnews/2691191-8/lake-
cle-elum-proposal-geared-to-help-efforts [47]:            http://www.bellinghamherald.com/2014/11/30/3999282/lake-
whatcom-pollution-report.html?sp=/99/101/102/ [48]:            http://www.kitsapsun.com/news/local-news/olympic-
national-forest-uses-infrared-technology-to-monitor-trail-use_67197671 
[49]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://seattletimes.com/html/localnews/2025131826_seastarfolodiseasexml.html 
[50]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/blog/techflash/2014/11/could-puget-sound-become-too-acidic-for-shellfish.html 
[51]:            http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141128/NEWS01/141129180 [52]:            
http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141130/OPINION03/141139973/%2526%25238216Greener [53]:            
http://seattletimes.com/html/opinion/2025125011_elliottopedfuelstandards26xml.html 
[54]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.theolympian.com/2014/11/28/3445161/give-a-gift-that-sustains-life.html?sp=/99/109/207/ [55]:            
http://www.thenewstribune.com/2014/11/29/3508866/as-tribal-gaming-booms-fewer-
gamblers.html?sp=/99/296/331/326/ [56]:            http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2014/nov/30/expanded-gun-
background-checks-begin-thursday/ [57]:            http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2014/nov/29/funds-for-hanford-
plant-in-doubt/ [58]:            http://seattletimes.com/html/editorials/2025125005_hanfordeditorialxml.html [59]:            
http://www.dailyrecordnews.com/inbrief/state-seeks-feedback-on-plan-for-alzheimer-s/article_de672c82-7767-11e4-
908d-6f86b815d27a.html [60]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/blog/health-care-inc/2014/12/isoray-
presents-striking-brain-cancer-test-results.html [61]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-
edition/2014/11/28/doc-will-see-you-now.html [62]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-
edition/2014/11/28/exchange-picks-up-speed-in-two-weeks.html 
[63]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.bellinghamherald.com/2014/11/28/3991468/doctors-must-learn-to-talk-about.html?sp=/99/122/291/ [64]:       
     http://seattletimes.com/html/education/2025132186_edlabacademicredshirtxml.html [65]:            
http://seattletimes.com/html/localnews/2025138284_westernglobalxml.html 
[66]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.theolympian.com/2014/11/26/3448105/auditors-fault-south-puget-sound.html?sp=/99/101/112/ [67]:            
http://www.dailyrecordnews.com/inbrief/cwu-hosting-hiv-aids-event/article_c3771932-7767-11e4-907c-
f74fe707a7f2.html [68]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/blog/2014/11/fedex-donates-3-retired-boeing-
727s-to-washington.html [69]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-edition/2014/11/28/whitman-colleges-
incoming-president.html [70]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-edition/2014/11/28/eastern-
washington-s-president-mary-cullinan.html [71]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-
edition/2014/11/28/to-infinity-and-wait-not-that-high.html [72]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-
edition/2014/11/28/washington-colleges-ramp-up-tech-health-efforts.html 
[73]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.wenatcheeworld.com/news/2014/nov/28/local-immigration-reform-advocates-call-for-permanent-fix/ [74]:       
     http://crosscut.com/2014/12/01/urban/122987/growth-game-puget-sound-area-has-options/ [75]:            
http://www.dailyrecordnews.com/inbrief/manweller-elected-to-gop-leadership-spot/article_a0bed52e-7767-11e4-
b868-9bc22cf093a3.html [76]:            http://nwnewsnetwork.org/post/ethics-board-consider-if-lawmakers-should-
report-free-meals [77]:            http://www.chronline.com/opinion/article_900d2df0-7787-11e4-ab2f-
0fef4c53b280.html [78]:            http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141126/NEWS01/141129293 [79]:            
http://www.kitsapsun.com/news/local-news/wolfe-takes-his-place-as-kitsap-county-commissioner_22177155 
[80]:       
  
 
 
 
http://www.bellinghamherald.com/2014/11/28/3999234/bellingham-planners-hope-to-
speed.html?sp=/99/101/102/ 
[81]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.columbiabasinherald.com/opinion/editorials/politics/article_5a9993f8-7731-11e4-90b3-
77cbdf735e40.html [82]:            http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141128/OPINION01/141129279/Restore-
funding-for-First-Steps- [83]:            http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141130/OPINION01/141139971/Investigate-
alleged-hostile-comments-by-countys-deputy-exec 
[84]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.tri-
cityherald.com/2014/11/26/3281773/prospective-marijuana-retailer.html?sp=/99/900/901/ 
[85]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.yakimaherald.com/news/latestlocalnews/2694341-8/union-gap-pot-shops-not-drawing-crime-police [86]:       
     http://www.chronline.com/news/article_07ccc260-7788-11e4-aea3-83fb30d25245.html [87]:            
http://www.chronline.com/news/article_fda9cf3c-7785-11e4-9e8f-27e5aef570c4.html 
[88]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.thenewstribune.com/2014/11/30/3513630/drive-high-keep-your-license-state.html?sp=/99/296/331/326/ 
[89]:            http://www.oregonlive.com/marijuana/index.ssf/2014/12/washington_researchers_develop.html [90]:       
Capitol Buzz: December 1, 2014
     http://www.theolympian.com/2014/11/28/3451690/breath-test-to-detect-pot-is-being.html?sp=/99/101/112/ [91]:       
  
 
 
 
http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-edition/2014/11/28/how-the-proposed-medical-marijuana-laws-
would.html [92]:            http://www.bizjournals.com/seattle/print-edition/2014/11/28/that-pot-shop-next-door-might-
have-to-move-seattle.html [93]:            http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2014/nov/29/editorial-its-essential-that-
forest-service-make/ [94]:            http://www.dailyrecordnews.com/members/army-wants-to-build-special-drone-
airstrip/article_cfd372fa-772d-11e4-bc78-bb8fe9373b4a.html 
[95]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.columbian.com/news/2014/nov/28/defense-cuts-make-sense/ 
[96]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141201/NEWS01/141209951/Panel-to-hold-last-meeting-on-safety-
recommendations-after-Oso-mudslide 
[97]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://seattletimes.com/html/localnews/2025137976_backgroundchecksxml.html 
[98]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://seattletimes.com/html/editorials/2025125007_nraeditorialxml.html 
[99]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.thenewstribune.com/2014/11/29/3513930/i-1351-vs-2-year-colleges-and.html?sp=/99/447/465/ 
[100]:       
  
 
 
 
http://seattletimes.com/html/localnews/2025138243_wilburjournalismxml.html 
[101]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://washingtonstatewire.com/blog/cybersecurity-public-sectors-growing-concerns-washingtons-growing-industry-
part-1/ [102]:            http://www.columbian.com/news/2014/nov/27/wsdot-agrees-to-pay-500k-to-settle-suit/ [103]:       
  
 
 
 
http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20141128/NEWS01/141129223 
[104]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2014/nov/30/editorial-with-washington-roads-in-poor-shape-tax/ [105]:            
http://www.yakimaherald.com/news/latestlocalnews/2668556-8/gas-tax-collection-remains-sticking-point-for-
yakamas [106]:            http://www.yakimaherald.com/news/latestlocalnews/2699235-8/two-yakama-tribal-officials-
suspended [107]:            http://houserepublicans.wa.gov/capitol-buzz/policy/ [108]:            
http://houserepublicans.wa.gov 
Load-Date: December 2, 2014
End of Document
Shannon: Airport boss is predicting double-digit growth this year
Shannon: Airport boss is predicting double-digit growth this year
Sunday Business Post
November 30, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMERCIAL REPORTS
Length: 1195 words
Body
It has been almost two years since Shannon Airport Authority (SAA) gained full independence, becoming a publicly-
owned commercial semi-state company.
By that time, the numbers passing through the airport, once a vibrant magnet for business and tourism in the 
midwest, had dropped off significantly.
The freedom afforded by the airport's independence allowed Shannon to turn a corner, striking its own deals with 
airlines including Ryanair, which launched routes to new destinations, including Alicante, by the spring of 2013.
Other new or expanded services to Chicago, Philadelphia, New York, Boston, Glasgow, Faro, Palma and Malaga, 
were announced across a range of carriers.
**Positive turnaround**
The airport handled 1.4 million passengers last year, and 24,000 aircraft movements. Terminal traffic, comprising 
passengers that begin or end their journey at Shannon, rose by three per cent in 2012 to total close to 1.3 million.
Transatlantic traffic increased by 18 per cent to just under 340,000 passengers, as carriers increased capacity and 
new routes were added to Chicago and Philadelphia.
The upward trajectory has continued this year.    The airport's strong momentum across 2014 has continued into 
the final month of the Autumn, with passenger numbers for October, the most recent figures to hand, showing a 28 
per cent increase on the same period twelve months ago,   said Andrew Murphy, chief commercial officer with 
Shannon Airport.
   The biggest gains in passenger numbers through the terminal were again on European services, with eight 
continental services among the nine attractive new routes launched for the summer season - April through to end of 
October  .
Shannon: Airport boss is predicting double-digit growth this year
**Passenger throughput**
Taking the tough shoulder month of October as an example, Murphy said:    we enjoyed a 111 per cent increase 
(from 20,347 to 42,950) in passenger numbers to and from the continent last month compared to October 2013  .
Transatlantic passenger traffic was up by 15 per cent (from 23,511 to 27,108) for the same period, due to the 
increased frequency across New York and Boston services this year, with Shannon's biggest market, the UK, up by 
six per cent in October (from 61,681 to 65,243).
With just a month to go until the end of the year, and the busy Christmas period to look forward to, Murphy is 
confident that Shannon will record double-digit growth for 2014.
   It will still be strong growth somewhere in the early to mid teens, which is a significant and positive development.  
He confirmed that Shannon Airport had the summer season shored up, due in part to the success of the Wild 
Atlantic Way, an initiative that has resonated strongly and ignited the imagination of inbound tourists.
There had been gains across the airport's three main markets, Europe, Britain and US, he said.
   Increases in European services are particularly strong thanks to the nine new services this summer season, but 
the US also performed ahead of expected on the back of greater frequencies  .
The strength of the Sterling sent British passengers in Shannon's direction.    The UK is the strongest market for 
Ireland and a six percentage growth month-over-month is quite significant,   said Murphy.
**Continued growth**
With six new services launching this winter, Murphy is confident that traffic to and from Shannon Airport will 
continue to grow.
   Some of the new winter services, such as Berlin, Fuerteventura, Krakow, Paris and Warsaw, together with our 
other winter services, provide a really strong array of destinations for weekend or winter sun breaks as well as for 
business travellers,   he said.
   It's good news also for the region, as our winter schedule this year has really good options from an inbound 
perspective, which will be good for the domestic tourism sector  .
Murphy said further services would be launched next year.    Our transatlantic offering is now much more 
comprehensive than it has been for years and we expect that to continue for 2015,   he said.
Aer Lingus operates a daily service to Boston year round and six daily services per week to New York (JFK) across 
ten and a half months of the year.
Delta offers daily flights from May to October into New York while United operate a year round daily service to 
Newark and a daily service into Chicago, which is a leading hub, from May - October.
American Airlines fly to Philadelphia, one of their most significant hubs, from May to October.
Next year marks the 70th anniversary of commercial transatlantic flights into Shannon.
The first carrier, American Overseas Airlines (AOA, now American Airlines), made a scheduled flight from the US to 
Shannon on October 24, 1945, when a DC4 aircraft    Flagship London   flew from Gander to Shannon in 8 hours 
20 minutes.
It was a flight of such significance that broadcasts were made from the aircraft while en route, which were relayed 
over a nationwide radio network in the US.
Shannon: Airport boss is predicting double-digit growth this year
Within weeks, Shannon began receiving scheduled aircraft from Trans World Airways (TWA) and Pan American 
Airways (Pan AM). Murphy confirmed that plans were in place to celebrate the event in 2015.
**Cargo traffic**
Aside from passengers, the other key service airline offered by Shannon Airport is cargo, an area of business 
Murphy and his team hope to build on.
   Currently, DHL and Fedex run daily overnight services to hubs in Paris and Cologne. Given our location cargo 
has to be a target for growth and we are in discussions to grow cargo services further,   he said.
Murphy is confident that Shannon Airport has several strong selling points.    Full US customs pre-clearance 
services are a very important selling point,   he said.
   In 2009, Shannon became the first airport outside North America and the Caribbean to offer US pre-clearance 
facilities for scheduled and corporate aviation. It is now the only airport in Ireland to offer pre-clearance facilities for 
both commercial and private aircraft  .
In the past, Shannon Airport was seen as a leader in innovation, a reputation Murphy is keen to regain.
   While we strive for greater innovation as a driver of new business, we will also remain committed to the delivery of 
a safe, secure and customer-focused airport operation, through the delivery of our service to the highest national 
and international standards and best practice,   he said.
Other Shannon Airport facilities that appeal to passengers, according to Murphy, include easy pick-up and drop-off 
facilities for hire cars, convenient parking with discounted online offering of up to 50 per cent off long-stay rates.
Passengers can park a car within a five to seven-minute walk of the airport for EUR 30 a week.
At the short stay car park, located just by the terminal, monthly and annual parking is sold to regular customers at 
reduced rates.
Shannon Airport is located on 855 hectares of land. It has its own fuel storage farm with hydrant delivery systems 
and water supply facilities.
   We operate a 24-hour service with no curfews, slots or noise restrictions,   said Murphy.
   The airport's runway is the longest in Ireland at 3,199 metres and is capable of handling all aircraft types. We also 
operate a fire and rescue service to Category 9 standard  .
*shannonairport.ie*
Load-Date: December 1, 2014
End of Document
Britain 's FTSE hits one-week low Finance
Britain's FTSE hits one-week low; Finance
Business World (Digest)
November 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 274 words
Highlight: Britain's top share index slipped to a one-week low on Friday, with energy and mining stocks slumping 
following a further drop in oil prices to a new four-year trough.
Body
Britain's top share index slipped to a one-week low on Friday, with energy and mining stocks slumping following a 
further drop in oil prices to a new four-year trough.
Miners came under pressure as copper slid to an eight-month low on worries over slowing global growth and as a 
rout in oil prices, after OPEC decided not to cut oil output, triggered selling across commodities. The UK mining 
index fell 1 percent, while BHP Billiton was down 3.2 percent.
The UK Oil and Gas index dropped 3.3 percent, the biggest sectoral decliner. BP, BG Group, Tullow Oil and Royal 
Dutch Shell fell 2.8 to 7.2 percent, while mid-cap Premier Oil sank 12 percent.
"The OPEC decision to maintain output is having a negative impact on the sector. Resources sectors such as oil 
and mining will continue to underperform over coming months," said John B. Smith, senior fund manager at Brown 
Shipley. "Falling oil prices are bad for oil shares but good for consumers, which is why shares in companies such as 
Easyjet and Whitbread are higher." British low-cost airline easyJet, Ryanair and British Airways owner IAG rose 
between 1.2 and 2.9 percent, limiting the broader market's decline. The blue-chip FTSE 100 index was down 0.7 
percent at 6,676.14 points by 0921 GMT after falling as far as 6,669.69, its lowest since Nov. 20. The index, which 
is down about 1 percent this year, hit a two-month high late last week. "Overall, trading is expected to be subdued, 
with the U.S. markets closing early, and very few major economic data are scheduled to be released today," said 
Markus Huber, senior analyst at Peregrine & Black. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 3, 2014
Britain 's FTSE hits one-week low Finance
End of Document
Energy Shares Tumble EU Markets
Energy Shares Tumble; EU Markets
Business World (Digest)
November 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 368 words
Highlight: European shares fell on Friday morning, retreating for the first time in six sessions as a further drop in 
crude oil prices kept the pressure on energy shares and revived fears of deflation in the euro zone.
Body
European shares fell on Friday morning, retreating for the first time in six sessions as a further drop in crude oil 
prices kept the pressure on energy shares and revived fears of deflation in the euro zone.
BP shed 3.5 percent, Total sank 4.1 percent, Seadrill lost 4.6 percent and Saipem slipped 4.1 percent.
A number of oil services firms including Seadrill have been forced to scrap their dividends as the sector struggles 
with the drop in crude prices, which is prompting oil majors to accelerate cost cutting efforts.
"At dollar 72 a barrel, we're well below the pain threshold for many companies in the sector, as well as many 
exporting countries such as Iran, Libya or Russia," said IG France's chief market analyst, Alexandre Baradez. 
"However, it's a pretty good news for the energy-hungry sectors such as airlines." Jet fuel, derived from crude, 
accounts for around a third of the operating costs of airlines. Shares in Air France surged 8 percent while Lufthansa 
rose 4.3 percent and Ryanair added 3.5 percent. At 0900 GMT, the FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares 
was down 0.5 percent at 1,385.05 points. The benchmark index had risen nearly 15 percent since a low hit in mid-
October, lifted by the prospect of further measures from the European Central Bank to ward off the risk of deflation. 
"The outcome of the OPEC meeting and the slump in oil prices that followed brings huge uncertainties," said 
Naeem Aslam, Chief Market Analyst at Avatrade, in Dublin. "It's definitely bad news for Draghi because it will 
prevent any rebound in inflation." Brent crude prices were down nearly 1 percent to below dollar 72 a barrel on 
Friday, adding to the previous session's plunge when OPEC decided not to cut oil output to support prices after 
Saudi Arabia blocked calls from poorer OPEC members for output reductions. Brent has tumbled nearly 40 percent 
since June. On the positive side, a survey of Japan-based fund managers, polled between Nov. 17 and 21, showed 
on Friday that allocations to euro zone equities had increased to 17.3 percent in November from 13.8 percent in 
October, amid expectations of more stimulus from the European Central Bank. (Reuters) For more visit: 
www.businessworld.ie
Energy Shares Tumble EU Markets
Load-Date: December 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Says Boeing 737 "gamechanger" Order Approved At EGM - Quick Facts
Ryanair Says Boeing 737 "gamechanger" Order Approved At EGM - Quick 
Facts
RTT News (United States)
November 28, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L,RYAAY) said its order to buy up to 200 Boeing 
"gamechanger" 737 MAX aircraft (100 firm & 100 options) has been approved by 99.93% of shareholders who 
voted at its EGM in Dublin this morning. If finalised and if all options are exercised, this deal would be worth more 
than $22 billion at current list prices. Ryanair is the lead customer for this new Boeing aircraft which would feature 
197 seats (8 more than Ryanair's existing 737-800s), more leg room, new Boeing Sky Interiors, and CFM LEAP-1B 
engines, which would lower fuel consumption by up to 18% in Ryanair's configuration and reduce noise emissions 
by 40%. These aircraft would further reduce Ryanair's unit costs, and these savings would be passed on through 
reduced fares to Ryanair's customers, which would now grow from 82 million in 2014 to over 150 million customers 
per year by the end of the delivery stream in fiscal 2024.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 28, 2014
End of Document
No-frills homes keep ownership dreams alive Real estate: Affordable houses
No-frills homes keep ownership dreams alive; Real estate: Affordable 
houses
Financial Times (London, England)
November 27, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 690 words
Byline: Andrew Bounds, North of England correspondent
Highlight: Almost half Gleeson's buyers use Help to Buy and their average age is late 20s
Body
It is not your typical home seller's patter. "Most home buyers would not have this area top of their list. It has issues 
with schools, unemployment and crime," says Jolyon Harrison , over tea and biscuits in a show home in the 
sprawling Parson Cross estate in Sheffield. "It is the sort of area we would normally develop in."
Mr Harrison, chief executive of builder MJ Gleeson , is seeking to do for houses what Ryanair did for foreign 
holidays: make them affordable. He is marginally more diplomatic than Michael O'Leary , the pugnacious airline 
boss, but shares his disdain for bureaucrats, regulations and conventional wisdom. An industry veteran, the 
mustachioed Yorkshireman also promoted customer service before the Irish airline.
"Over 95 per cent of people in these areas are decent and hardworking. We sell to working-class people. Political 
parties don't call them that but that's what they call themselves. They have a dream of home ownership. They 
deserve to fulfil it."
While many housebuilders have focused on London and the southeast, where prices are rising by up to 20 per cent 
annually, Gleeson builds exclusively in the north, where they have still not returned to the 2007 peak.
No-frills homes keep ownership dreams alive Real estate: Affordable houses
It had eight sites in 2010, and now has 40. It built 561 homes this year and aims to build 1,000 annually in the next 
few years. Sites include Toxteth, in Liverpool, where Victorian homes were offered for £1 each this year, and 
around Manchester City's stadium, where thousands of terraced homes have been demolished.
Its average selling price is £115,000, less than half the £275,000 average property price in the UK as a whole. 
Smaller homes are about £100,000. With the government offering to underwrite a 20 per cent deposit through its 
Help to Buy scheme, "I can sell those houses to a couple on the minimum wage," said Mr Harrison. Almost half 
Gleeson's buyers use Help to Buy and their average age is late 20s.
All of the homes are semi-detached or detached with front gardens and a driveway. How can prices be so low? Mr 
Harrison says it is because of a no-frills model that keeps things simple. Gleeson factors infrastructure costs into 
the price it pays for the land. It does not form complicated regeneration partnerships with councils, which come with 
conditions attached. "We buy the land and they decide what to do with the money," he said. "It is land no one else 
wants, often vacant for years. It is a benefit to the council. They get houses and the new homes bonus [government 
grant that rewards house building] and an increase in rates. We have a policy of employing local people."
Research by Savills, the property consultancy, found that the state owns enough land to build 2m homes , with 
councils having half that. But Mr Harrison says they earmark it for specific uses rather than letting the market 
decide.
He said the planners even insist on which bricks to use. Gleeson pays half what others do for bricks. "You would 
not be able to tell the difference between them. The planners want you to use the expensive one. We argue with 
them."
Straight walls and regular windows allow quick building. But it still offers 350 different kitchen choices and free 
conversions for the disabled.
Nevertheless, Gleeson remains a specialist. Last year, 108,880 homes were built in the UK by private developers .
Houses in such areas are likely to lag behind any general rise in prices. But Mr Harrison said buyers were not 
looking to resell but pass on to their children.
Jean Buddin, 57, a school dinner lady, was one of the first to move in to the new development in Parson Cross. She 
had bought her council house with her husband Steve, a construction worker, for £11,600 in 1989. With the 
mortgage paid off and three children grown up, she was able to sell for £100,000 and buy a new, two-bed house 
with garage.
"I had always wanted a new house," she said. "I grew up in this area. I like it and I know my way around."
Sheffield-based Gleeson, which is listed, posted £81.4m revenue in 2013-14 and made £12.2m profit. The average 
house plot costs £10,000 and it makes an average of 25 per cent gross margin. "We are not greedy," Mr Harrison 
says.
Load-Date: November 26, 2014
End of Document
Access to credit remains obstacle CEO Forum
Access to credit remains obstacle; CEO Forum
Business World (Digest)
November 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 480 words
Highlight: Over 300 of the country's leading CEOs attending the CeoForum in Dublin Castle tomorrow will hear 
that, while sentiment is on the rise, access to capital remains the biggest obstacle to growth.
Body
Over 300 of the country's leading CEOs attending the CeoForum in Dublin Castle tomorrow will hear that, while 
sentiment is on the rise, access to capital remains the biggest obstacle to growth.
The country's business leaders will listen to key note addresses from Michael O'Leary, Ryanair and Anne Heraty, 
CPL, as well as other speakers and panellists including Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation Richard Bruton.
In advance of the event, a survey looked at the views of CEOs from leading Irish businesses in relation to 
internationalisation opportunities and challenges, the economic outlook for 2015 and the adequacy of Irish 
education programmes in disciplines such as IT, Maths and Science to meet the growing economic demand.
Respondents were asked what they believe are the main challenges businesses face in maximising their 
international potential and unsurprisingly access to working capital was the key single concern for the 35pc. 
However, people issues are the dominant overall concern for 53pc of CEOs with 12pc identifying staff mobility, 
20pc availability of graduates here and a further 21pc stressing the difficulty of sourcing suitable qualified and 
skilled local employees abroad. 20pc felt that this was especially applicable in the areas of IT, Science, Engineering 
and Maths. Only 12pc felt that they faced significant challenges in adapting their products to new markets. The 
CeoForum survey also revealed that Irish businesses are still relatively dependent on UK; EU and North American 
markets. When asked which of the following markets were most important for their company's growth 55pc of 
respondents identified the UK, 21pc North America, 16pc EU, with only 4pc naming BRIC (Brazil India Russia 
China), 3pc Asia Pacific and just 1pc CIVITS (Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa). 
According to David Hearn, Head of Consulting at Deloitte, "CEOs are positive about the economic outlook for 
Ireland with 69pc believing that GDP will match or exceed recent predictions of 3pc and just under 25pc believing 
that it will be 4pc or above. Others were slightly more cautious in their forecasts - 29pc said GDP growth would be 
just 2pc. A large majority (77pc) are confident about Ireland's capacity to exceed average EU GDP growth rates 
Access to credit remains obstacle CEO Forum
over the next 2-3 years." While the tone of the survey was predominantly positive, the area of education and skills 
training is an area Irish business leaders felt that a higher output was required and if this was delivered, it would 
have a positive impact on the Irish economy. 9 out of 10 respondents felt that with CAO points' requirements 
growing strongly every year for key FDI related disciplines such as IT, Science and Engineering, the number of 
places in 3rd level institutions should be increased in each of these disciplines to meet business demand. For more 
visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 27, 2014
End of Document
EU to open probe in to Irish travel tax Travel Tax
EU to open probe in to Irish travel tax; Travel Tax
Business World (Digest)
November 25, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 264 words
Highlight: The European Commission is to re-open an investigation into Irish travel tax and whether it constitutes 
state aid.
Body
The European Commission is to re-open an investigation into Irish travel tax and whether it constitutes state aid.
The EU General Court which found that the European Commission did not properly investigate whether an 
exemption from the Irish travel tax for transfer and transit passengers constituted State aid to Aer Lingus and Aer 
Arann.
It annulled a previous decision, which now means that another inquiry will be held.
The case was taken by Ryanair, who claimed that internal flights run by Aer Arann and Aer Lingus were the only 
ones that could benefit from a lower rate of travel tax. Ryanair had argued that the exemption for transfer and transit 
passengers from the air travel tax, which was set at E10 for flights departing Irish airports and landing more than 
300km from Dublin Airport, and E2 for flights departing Irish airports and landing less than 300km from Dublin 
Airport - constituted State aid to Aer Lingus and Aer Arann. However, the European Commission refused to formally 
investigate this complaint in July 2011. The EU General Court today annulled the European Commission's July 
2011 decision and found that the Commission did not properly investigate whether this exemption constituted State 
aid to Aer Lingus and Aer Arann. Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "We welcome today's ruling which confirms that 
Ryanair's procedural rights were not respected by the Commission and we look forward to the Commission carrying 
out a comprehensive investigation into whether Aer Lingus and Aer Arann received State aid through this 
exemption." For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 28, 2014
EU to open probe in to Irish travel tax Travel Tax
End of Document
Ryanair , Booking.com in partnership Ryanair Hotels
Ryanair, Booking.com in partnership; Ryanair Hotels
Business World (Digest)
November 24, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 152 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced a new partnership with online hotel and accommodation booking group, 
Booking.com.
Body
Ryanair today announced a new partnership with online hotel and accommodation booking group, Booking.com.
This is the latest in a series of changes as part of Ryanair's programme to become more customer care focussed 
and follows a new website, a new app with mobile boarding passes, the "My Ryanair" customer registration system 
and its new Family Extra and Business Plus services.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "Ryanair is pleased to partner with Booking.com, the world's 
leading online booking accommodation provider, in the latest in a long line of Ryanair digital improvements. Ryanair 
will carry 89m passengers this year at our lowest fares and our partnership with Booking.com guarantees the lowest 
hotel prices, allowing Ryanair customers to book their flights and accommodation together, ensuring they save even 
more, every time they fly with us."
For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 27, 2014
End of Document
Boardroom Briefing
Boardroom Briefing
Sunday Business Post
November 23, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 541 words
Body
**Revenue up at Datalex**
-- Dublin-based software firm Datalex reported a 15 per cent increase in transaction revenue for the four months to 
the end of October when compared to the same period a year earlier, according to an interim management 
statement published last week.
The company expects a number of new customers, including Virgin Atlantic and Air Transat of Canada, to go live 
with its software and begin generating transaction revenue before the end of 2014.
   These customers will drive transaction revenue growth in 2015 and beyond,   said the statement, which indicated 
the company expects earnings growth of between 18 per cent and 20 per cent for the full year.
Datalex also said that it was in advanced negotiations with    a number of other prospects and we anticipate two 
further new customer signings in the next quarter  . The company said that these new signings would    go live 
during the second half of 2015 and will help deliver transaction revenue growth in 2016  .
.......
**Green Reit eyes further growth**
-- Property investment company Green Reit has its sights set on    intensive asset management and selective 
development   plus    further opportunistic acquisitions  , according to its interim management statement.
The company said that its portfolio of 24 properties had an annual gross rent roll of EUR 52.9 million and a value of 
EUR 813 million. In recent months the company has completed two acquisitions for a combined contract price of 
about EUR 400 million.
Boardroom Briefing
Gary Kennedy, Green Reit's chairman, said that the period from July 1, 2014 had been    a period of sustained 
activity, particularly with the acquisition of the Sapphire Portfolio, our single largest acquisition  .
The company has identified six assets within its portfolio with opportunity for refurbishment and redevelopment, it 
said in its statement.
.......
**Aer Lingus confirms EGM**
-- Aer Lingus has announced that it will hold an extraordinary general meeting next month to seek the approval of 
its shareholders for the proposed solution to address the deficit in its pension scheme.
The proposed solution will see the pension fund it shares with Dublin Airport Authority closed, and new separate 
defined contribution funds established at each company.
The EGM is scheduled for 2pm on December 10 at the Radisson Hotel, Dublin Airport, with both the Irish 
government and Ryanair entitled to vote as shareholders.
........
**NTMA auctions six-month bills**
-- The National Treasury Management Agency sold EUR 500 million worth of six-month Treasury bills at auction 
last week.
All bids were filled at a yield of 0.044 per cent, while total bids received amounted to EUR 1.875 billion - 3.75 times 
the amount on offer.
........
**The week ahead**
-- Agri-services group Origin Enterprises will hold its annual general meeting tomorrow at the Westbury Hotel in 
Dublin at 10am. A day later Greencore will release its full year results, for the year ended September 26.
-- This Friday, Ryanair will hold an extraordinary general meeting. Earlier this month the airline reported that its net 
profit for the first half of the year was up 32 per cent to EUR 795 million, and said that it had signed a new 
agreement for 200 new Boeing aircraft, subject to EGM approval.
Load-Date: November 24, 2014
End of Document
News Briefs
News Briefs
Sunday Business Post
November 23, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 893 words
Body
**Galway to launch regional public bike scheme**
Galway will be the first city outside Dublin to launch a public bike project as part of a roll-out of regional schemes in 
three cities, which begins tomorrow, writes Leanna Byrne.
The roll-out, which will include Limerick and Cork in the coming weeks, is the first time a bike scheme has been 
phased out nationally across multiple cities.
The bikes are known as the Coca-Cola Zero Bikes, and will see Coca-Cola Ireland invest EUR 3 million over the 
next five years into the scheme, resulting from a partnership with Coca-Cola, the Department of Transport, the 
National Transport Authority (NTA) and the cities of Cork, Galway and Limerick.
   Our investment in Coca-Cola Zero Bikes is part of our wider commitment to help encourage active healthy 
lifestyles and we hope this scheme will enable more people to integrate cycling into their everyday lives, with the 
option of a healthier and happier commute,   said general manager of Coca-Cola HBC Ireland and Northern Ireland 
Frank O'Donnell.
Gerry Murphy, chief executive of the NTA, said the new bikes would be a significant addition to the transport 
infrastructure of each of the cities and added that he expected their use to be in line with that of the Dublin bike 
scheme.
......................................
**Ikon Talent shareholders see a EUR 388,661 boost to funds**
Sports agency Ikon Talent saw its shareholders' funds grow to EUR 388,661 this year, according to accounts just 
filed.
News Briefs
Ikon, the sports and entertainment agency in which recently retired rugby star Brian O'Driscoll and former Chelsea 
star Damien Duff have invested, is led by sports lawyer Damien O'Donoghue. The company saw its profits rise from 
EUR 55,447 to EUR 88,521 for the year ended June 30, 2014.
Due to its size, the company does not have to file either a profit and loss account or cash flow statement. Ikon's 
roster of talent includes rugby stars Jamie Heaslip and Cian Healy, and footballers Robbie Keane and Stephen 
Kelly.
Caroline Downey, manager of music sensation Hozier and co-founder of MCD, also holds a 15 per cent stake in the 
company.
......................................
**North Dublin Chamber holds enterprise expo**
North Dublin Chamber of Commerce (NDCC) hosted its annual enterprise expo earlier this month, showcasing local 
small to medium enterprises (SMEs) and start-ups.
The event involved one-to-one sessions at which SMEs could meet with a procurement experts from DAA, DIT, 
DCU, Dublin City Council and Ryanair.
In launching the event, Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation Richard Bruton praised those involved for their 
courage and bravery.
NDCC president Liam O'Halloran said:    Many of our members are showing real growth and job creation potential . 
. . many of the businesses today reported important business leads that they had created through the event.  
......................................
**Harrington to host sport awards charity fundraiser**
Irish sports legends of past, present and future will attend the upcoming 26th Excellence in Sport awards 2014 in 
Dublin on December 8.
The event, hosted by golfer Pádraig Harrington, will honour the very best in sporting achievement and will also help 
to raise funds for the Irish Youth Foundation.
All proceeds from the evening will go towards the charity's work supporting vulnerable children and young people 
living in disadvantaged circumstances around the country.
Ten awards will be presented on the evening including the 2014 team award, individual award (male), individual 
award (female), a Reeling Back the Years award and a Minority Sport award.
Eoin Reddan, Ireland rugby international and a board member of the Irish Youth Foundation, urged the business 
sector to support the event by buying a table.
......................................
**Russell Court firm records pre-tax profits of EUR 967,113**
The company behind the Russell Court hotel saw profits rise last year as it recorded a pre-tax profit of EUR 
967,113, up from EUR 926,898 the previous year. Accounts just filed for Triglen Holdings, which operates the hotel 
on Dublin's Harcourt street that houses nightclubs including Krystle and Dicey's Garden Bar, show a continuing 
upward swing for the firm, which recorded profits of just EUR 59,386 in 2011. The firm's directors' report states that 
the directors also expect sales and profits to increase in 2014.
News Briefs
According to the accounts the company also gained from the revaluation of its property, which was up by EUR 
695,243, giving it a total recognised gain for the year of EUR 1.4 million.
The firm turned its profit having also paid out EUR 843,000 in remuneration to its directors, Ramanathan 
Arulchelvan and Eileen Wright. At the end of the year, the firm had equity shareholders' funds of EUR 14.5 million.
......................................
**Clarification**
An article appeared in this paper on November 9 in relation to the European Commission's ongoing investigation 
into Ireland's tax arrangement with Apple, which stated that Europe has sought details of tax arrangements with 
other companies. The request was made in 2013, and the Department of Finance provided all the relevant 
information.
The EU Commission has confirmed that it is not requesting any further information beyond Apple and no further 
investigation is being launched into any company operating in Ireland.
Load-Date: November 24, 2014
End of Document
Siptu to meet DAA ahead of pension ballot
Siptu to meet DAA ahead of pension ballot
Sunday Business Post
November 23, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 506 words
Body
Siptu is set to hold a crunch meeting with Dublin Airport Authority management over the next 48 hours ahead of a 
crucial staff ballot on pension proposals at the company.
The trade union's airport pension committee has so far refused to recommend a yes vote to workers on a proposal 
that will see their pensions cut and replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. DAA will make a EUR 57 million 
cash injection into this new scheme to mitigate some of the losses to workers' retirement expectations.
Worker representatives have demanded that DAA formally respond to concerns it raised earlier this month with the 
company's management about the plan to freeze the shared DAA/Aer Lingus pension fund, which faces a funding 
deficit of as much as EUR 800 million.
A key stumbling block, revealed last month in this newspaper, is the fact that Aer Lingus workers will receive lump 
sums into their new pension funds that are as much as double the amount received by equivalent DAA workers as 
part of the deal to solve the problems with the pension pot that the two companies share. This issue, along with a 
failure to reach agreement on other issues with airport fire and police staff, is threatening to derail a deal that has 
been years in the making.
DAA has argued that the proposals from the two companies for future pension arrangements are different and 
reflect different business priorities in each case.
The Aer Lingus proposals include agreement to a pay freeze until the end of 2017 that will save that company EUR 
80 million, DAA has argued.
It has further argued that it will make ongoing pension contributions on all shift pay for current and future 
employees, whereas Aer Lingus is paying a lump sum contribution of EUR 30.2 million in lieu of making shift 
payments in the future.
Siptu to meet DAA ahead of pension ballot
But union representatives insist DAA management has failed to produce any evidence that contradicts their 
contention that DAA employees are getting a raw deal compared to their Aer Lingus colleagues, according to an 
airport source.
Time is running out for the two sides to reach agreement and the trustee of the current scheme is due to freeze it on 
December 31. Without trade union backing, there are concerns that the ballot on the proposals, currently due to 
begin on December 3, faces defeat, leaving massive uncertainty around future pension arrangements, according to 
sources.
Aer Lingus staff have already voted to accept the Labour Court proposals for their portion of the same pension fund. 
The airline is to hold an extraordinary general meeting to seek approval from its shareholders, including Ryanair, on 
December 10.
Legal threats from both pensioners and deferred pensioners also continue to hang over the process and could yet 
hold up the December 31 deadline. Pensioners face an immediate cut of as much as 20 per cent to their pension 
payments from January 1, 2015. They say they have been excluded from the negotiating process by the employers 
and the trustee and, unlike staff, will not receive any compensation to mitigate their losses.
Load-Date: November 24, 2014
End of Document
The high flyer of low-cost air travel Person in the news: Carolyn McCall
The high flyer of low-cost air travel; Person in the news: Carolyn McCall
Financial Times (London, England)
November 22, 2014 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMMENT & ANALYSIS; Pg. 9
Length: 896 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Highlight: Initially seen as an outsider, the easyJet chief executive has won over staff and investors , writes Peggy 
Hollinger
Body
Agood chief executive should know when cost-cutting has gone too far. Carolyn McCall decided that line was 
crossed last year when overzealous easyJet managers decided to save money by cutting the portions on in-flight 
meals for crew. When pilots alerted her to the penny-pinching, she restored the meals.
Such gestures have won the airline's chief executive the loyalty of staff in an industry notorious for its confrontations 
with crew. One of her first acts on arriving from Guardian Media Group in 2010 was to write to pilots to reassure 
them she did not plan to create an "Orange Ryanair" - a reference to the harsher employment terms of easyJet's 
low-cost rival - which previous management had wanted to introduce.
That letter "turned it for the pilots in terms of hope and leadership", says Jim McAuslan, general secretary of Balpa, 
the British pilots' union.
Ms McCall has also "turned it" for investors in Europe's second-biggest low-cost airline. In the two years before she 
arrived, easyJet's shares struggled to break through 440p. This week, the group announced its fourth year of record 
profits and the shares are trading at close to £16, significantly outperforming Ryanair. "One just has to look at the 
equity returns in the four year period and that speaks volumes," says Damian Brewer of RBC Capital.
The high flyer of low-cost air travel Person in the news: Carolyn McCall
When she arrived the game was far from won. EasyJet was caught in a damaging row over strategy between the 
board and founder Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, who is also the carrier's largest shareholder. The chairman, chief 
executive and finance director had all quit within 12 months, and the business was suffering from years of frantic 
double digit expansion. To cap it all, Ms McCall had no aviation experience.
Those who knew her wondered at her decision to leave GMG, owner of the Guardian and Observer newspapers. "I 
thought it was a brave decision," says Andy Higginson, former finance director of Tesco where Ms McCall was a 
non-executive director for three years to 2008. Ms McCall revealed in an interview last year that she too had doubts 
about leaving the "safe and secure environment" of the group where she had started 24 years before.
There were some questions over the timing of her departure from GMG, just as it fell heavily into loss following 
some pricey acquisitions and an ultimately unsuccessful newspaper relaunch.
But as the only child of an Anglo-Indian family, who went to boarding school from the age of eight, Ms McCall 
appears to have a taste for adventure. She denies having planned her career, and says that after earning her 
degree in history and politics at Kent university, she just looked for a job to stay in the UK with friends - including 
her future husband Peter. After a brief period as a trainee teacher she pitched up at the Guardian as a lowly 
research planner. There she met her mentor Caroline Marland, then advertising manager, and worked her way up 
to become chief executive of Guardian Newspapers before moving to GMG.
Despite the task facing her at easyJet, and three small children, the 53-year-old Ms McCall says she never doubted 
she was up to the job. "If you like your job you will be good at it," she said last year.
Others did, however. There was scepticism that a "media luvvie" - as she was dubbed by Ryanair boss Michael 
O'Leary - would have the hard-nosed nous to address the challenges facing easyJet. Her chairman, Sir Michael 
Rake, admits she was a controversial choice. But, for the board, the priority was to restore employee morale, as 
well as easyJet's reputation with customers.
Ms McCall's personal skills have never been in doubt. "Navigating people in a news organisation is quite difficult," 
says Andrew Miller, her successor at GMG. "She really understands people. She is a force of nature, full of energy, 
full of fun."
But she has an instinct for growth too, he adds, which not only helped to build new revenue streams for GMG, but 
also led to a transformation in easyJet's image.
"She challenged the orthodoxy of low- cost flying," says Sir Michael. By November of her first year Ms McCall 
revealed that easyJet would go where no one thought low cost could. She began to target business travellers with 
flexible fares and eventually allocated seating.
Willie Walsh, then chief executive of British Airways, dismissed the strategy and suggested she should focus on 
timekeeping given easyJet's once-famous delays. Since then, however, Ryanair has followed suit.
Now the challenge is to manage a market where easyJet's positioning between the legacy carriers and low-cost 
providers is being copied, not just by Ryanair but by new budget competitors. "This is a much messier competitive 
environment," says one analyst.
Few will bet against Ms McCall's success. In fact, finding anyone to criticise her is almost as difficult as finding a 
seat in the old-style, low-cost boarding scrum. "Sometimes she comes across as a bit of a schoolmarm," is the best 
Mr McAuslan can do. She may also have problems in "aligning those under her with her vision", he adds on 
reflection, citing the rationed crew meals."[But] I look across all the airlines and she is the most effective chief 
executive."
Even Mr Walsh, now chief executive of IAG, parent to BA and Iberia, has had to eat his words. In February he was 
forced to admit that Ms McCall was "one of the best in the business".
The writer is the FT's industry editor
The high flyer of low-cost air travel Person in the news: Carolyn McCall
Load-Date: November 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair claim Supreme Court victory; Ryanair Case
Ryanair claim Supreme Court victory; Ryanair Case
Business World (Digest)
November 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 291 words
Highlight: Ryanair today welcomed an Irish Supreme Court ruling that legal cases taken by Ryanair against 
alleged screenscraper websites must be heard in Ireland.
Body
Ryanair today welcomed an Irish Supreme Court ruling that legal cases taken by Ryanair against alleged 
screenscraper websites must be heard in Ireland.
Ryanair has been engaged in various cases across Europe to prevent alleged screenscrapers as eDreams, 
Billigfluege, On The Beach and Ticketpoint sell Ryanair flights without transferring the customer to the Ryanair 
website at any stage of the booking process.
The airline said that Billigfluege, On the Beach and Ticketpoint sought to overturn previous High Court decisions 
regarding jurisdiction.
However, this argument was dismissed by the Supreme Court in Dublin today. Ryanair has called on these alleged 
screenscrapers such as eDreams, Billigfluege, On The Beach and Ticketpoint to "stop misleading customers with 
artificially low on-screen flight prices which bear no relation to the total amount that customers end up paying. 
Ryanair has again identified more cases of these websites offering low-fare flights only for these to end up costing 
substantially more than the actual fares on Ryanair.com". "We welcome this ruling of the Irish Supreme Court which 
confirms that Ryanair's legal cases against screenscraper websites must be heard in Ireland. The ruling will have 
no impact on the authorised websites we work with today, over a dozen, who are supplied with Ryanair's product 
inventory, so as to allow customers to compare airfares. However, many screenscraper sites continue to artificially 
inflate Ryanair's fares and give a bad experience to customers, particularly those that want to change an element of 
their booking. We are calling on the EU to intervene and prohibit these practices in the interest of consumers," said 
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 25, 2014
Ryanair claim Supreme Court victory; Ryanair Case
End of Document
Ryanair to carry 3.5m this Christmas Ryanair Xmas
Ryanair to carry 3.5m this Christmas; Ryanair Xmas
Business World (Digest)
November 20, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 107 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it will carry over 3.5 million customers between 20th December and 6th January.
Body
Ryanair today said it will carry over 3.5 million customers between 20th December and 6th January.
That's an increase of 500,000 customers over the same period last year, as record numbers of people fly home for 
the holiday season.
Extra Christmas flights to Poland and the UK are booking up fast, while more families than ever are booking 
Christmas sun holidays on flights to the Algarve and Canaries, and winter breaks to Brussels and Lisbon also 
proving very popular, the airline said.
Ryanair will operate flights up to 16.40hrs (GMT) on Christmas Eve, resuming flights at 07.40hrs (GMT) on St 
Stephen's Day. For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to open new base at Bratislava Airport
Ryanair to open new base at Bratislava Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 20, 2014 Thursday 8:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 153 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced that it will open its first Slovakian base at Bratislava Airport in March 2015.
Body
Ryanair's new Bratislava base will deliver 2 based aircraft; 16 routes in total; 1 new route to Madrid; 60 weekly 
flights; 1 million customers p.a. and support 1,000 "on-site" jobs, as Ryanair invests over $200m at Bratislava. The 
16 new Bratislava S15 routes include: two daily flights to London Stansted; one daily flight to Dublin; four weekly 
flights to London Luton, Milan and Rome; three weekly flights to Birmingham, Brussels, Liverpool, Madrid and Paris; 
and two weekly flights to Alghero, Barcelona Girona, Edinburgh, Malaga, Palma and Trapani. Ryanair's Michael 
O'Leary said: "Ryanair customers in Bratislava can choose from 16 routes next summer, while enjoying allocated 
seating, a free 2nd carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding passes, and 
our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, business and 
leisure travellers."
Load-Date: November 26, 2014
End of Document
Up in the air
Up in the air
Financial Times (London, England)
November 19, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 21
Length: 258 words
Byline: Alison Smith
Body
It is better to travel hopefully than to arrive, so the saying goes.
In response to easyJet's 22 per cent rise in pre-tax profit for the year to end-September, the shares dipped slightly, 
before closing almost unchanged at £15.25. By contrast, Ryanair's shares rose 8 per cent on the day it raised its 
guidance for the current year by up to 20 per cent.
Given that easyJet had revealed its more generous dividend policy in September and had applauded its fourth 
successive year of record profits in October, the absence of renewed enthusiasm yesterday was understandable. 
The shares have, after all, risen more than 20 per cent in the past year, significantly outperforming the FTSE 100 
index.
What is more surprising is that some analysts have easyJet at a discount to Ryanair, on forward p/e ratios of about 
12 and 14 respectively. In terms of load factor - seats filled as a proportion of those available - easyJet has already 
achieved the 90 per cent that for Ryanair is still a target; and easyJet's wooing of lucrative business customers is 
also further advanced than Ryanair's charm offensive.
The non-appearance of a second successive special dividend may have disappointed some investors. Others will 
have noted that easyJet's outlook includes cost-per-seat inflation of 2 per cent, alongside a 5 per cent increase in 
capacity.
Up in the air
It improved on last year's cost estimate - the out-turn was a rise of just 0.6 per cent - and might yet do so again. But 
for now, the company's caution is reflected in the muted share price reaction.
 
Load-Date: November 18, 2014
End of Document
McCall scoffs at EASYJET being labelled as lazy; Gabriella Griffith speaks to the airline chief executive
McCall scoffs at EASYJET being labelled as lazy; Gabriella Griffith speaks to 
the airline chief executive
City A.M.
November 19, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 428 words
Byline: Gabriella Griffith
Body
A COUPLE of weeks ago, somebody called EASYJET lazy. This wasn't an angry passenger or a disgruntled 
shareholder, but the chief executive of Hungarian budget carrier Wizz Air, Jozsef Varadi. "Lazy low-cost airlines" 
will be undercut by ultra-low-cost brands like Wizz and Ryanair in Europe, he told punters at the World Travel 
Market conference at ExCel. "The likes of easy-Jet..., we would call them lazy low-cost."
Having just announced EASYJET's bumper full-year results yesterday, Carolyn McCall was having none of it.
"I can't comment on the tone of the people from Wizz, I can only assume it's out of jealousy - there aren't many 
airlines in the world which have seen increased profits four years running, as we have - I don't understand what this 
person meant," she said.
She has been hailed by some as the queen of the skies, with her confident manner, striking dark bob haircut and 
no-nonsense attitude, she's become a favourite of the FTSE 100, albeit one of its only five female chiefs.
Having spent 24 years at The Guardian, working her way up to chief exec, McCall was offered the top job at 
Channel 4, but took the helm at EASYJET instead back in 2010.
At a time when one of EASYJET's biggest rivals Ryanair is trying to undo years of bad press over its customer 
service - including some damning soundbites from boss Michael O'Leary - has her media background helped her 
and EASYJET to stay ahead? "Of course," she said. "As you all know, a background in media is incredibly helpful in 
many ways, including brand positioning."
McCall scoffs at EASYJET being labelled as lazy; Gabriella Griffith speaks to the airline chief executive
Is she worried about Ryanair's new "cuddly" image? "I don't worry about anyone else's image, I just worry about our 
own brand and looking after that. We just have to keep momentum going really, there's a really big gap between us 
and Ryanair and others, so we need to keep that gap and ensure our customers are really happy."
With passenger numbers rising 6.6 per cent to 64.8m and passenger retention figures up 50 per cent - there are 
certainly a few really happy customers.
The airline's push to attract business flyers has also shown progress, with 62 per cent of business travellers who 
booked a flight making a repeat booking.
"Popular new initiatives such as allocated seating meant many people tried us for the first time, and we are 
absolutely focused on driving loyalty, so they choose us flight after flight," Mc-Call said. "EasyJet has opened up 
clear blue sky between us and our competitors."
The skies may be clear blue, but the passengers are in orange planes.
I don't worry about anyone else's image, I just worry about ours. '
Graphic
 
EasyJet chief executive Carolyn McCall
Load-Date: November 19, 2014
End of Document
Let's launch in Dublin, Ireland
Let's launch in Dublin, Ireland
Financial Times (London, England)
November 19, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: BUSINESS LIFE; Pg. 12
Length: 528 words
Byline: Sally Davies
Body
Population: 530,000 
Start-ups:  200-plus 
US tech companies with Europe HQ here:  8-plus  (including Google, Facebook, Twitter, Yahoo, Microsoft)
You can read Dublin's past in its tangled streets and dark pubs, alive with the sound of fiddles and tourists trailing 
the erudite alcoholism of James Joyce and Brendan Behan. The Pogues invoked it in a version of the folk song 
"Dirty Old Town". But now a digital cluster is emerging, helped by the presence of big US tech groups and events 
such as the annual Web Summit , which drew more than 20,000 visitors this month.
The case for:  A history of emigration has forged strong ties to the US that are useful for wooing investors and 
customers. The presence of Google and Facebook's European headquarters at the Grand Canal Dock, lured by the 
government's light-touch approach to taxation , has been a boost for Dublin's talent pool if not so much for the rest 
of Europe's tax receipts. A bike-friendly city centre and vibrant pub scene are also big draws for a workforce mainly 
comprising millennials.
The case against: Spiralling property prices are making it harder to find space for start-ups, and the city's 
incubators and accelerators are nearly full. While the US multinationals help train people, they also poach staff with 
Let's launch in Dublin, Ireland
offers of salaries that few start-ups can match. A small domestic market makes it hard to reach scale without having 
to make resource-hungry cross-border forays for customers.
Local heroes: CurrencyFair is a peer-to-peer currency exchange that is trying to outsmart and undercut the banks 
on international money transfers. Founded by a former programmer at JPMorganChase with the help of a grant 
from the government, the 50-strong business is processing around EUR1bn in annualised transactions and expects 
to quadruple in size within 12 months.
Riffstation is an app and software serving up guitar or ukulele chords alongside YouTube videos of your choice, so 
you can learn to play along. Its special algorithms can "listen" to the music and figure out which chords to present to 
the player.
Show me the money:  Ireland is in the top three countries for venture capital investments as a percentage of gross 
domestic product in Europe, and investments have risen by 42 per cent to EUR1.3bn between 2007 and 2011, 
according to the Irish Venture Capital Association.
Repeat entrepreneurs and angels are ploughing in early-stage money, but bigger cheques for EUR5m and above 
are hard to come by.
 How easy is it to get to? Ryanair will take you almost anywhere in Europe. Conveniently positioned at the edge of 
the Atlantic, Dublin is less than eight hours to New York.
What the locals say:  "Dublin is led by creative diversity. We can never compete with London or Silicon Valley on 
scale, but smart people want to live interesting and good lives first - which is what you get in Dublin," says Paul 
Hayes of BeachHut, a tech consultancy and marketing firm.
"There's a symbiotic relationship between the big multinationals and the start-up scene. We have great stories but 
we don't yet have the data to help us connect the community," says Niamh Bushnell, Dublin's new commissioner for 
start-ups.
Sally Davies
Load-Date: November 18, 2014
End of Document
… as airline's profits soar to new heights
… as airline's profits soar to new heights
City A.M.
November 19, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 143 words
Byline: KATE McCANN
Body
BUDGET airline EASYJET yesterday shrugged off concerns about an increasingly crowded low-cost airline market 
by announcing a 21.5 per cent rise in pre-tax profit to £581m.
The no-frills carrier, which upgraded its profit forecast last month following strong sales, also announced it will 
increase its ordinary dividend per share by 35.5 per cent to 45.4p in a bid to reward shareholders.
The airline was helped by a boost in passenger numbers, up 6.6 per cent to 64.8m over the year to September.
EasyJet said yesterday that its 226-strong fleet occupied a leading position within major airports around the UK, 
making it a strong competitor. But concerns have crept in recent months as Ryanair cleans up its act in a bid to win 
business customers from its rival.
Shares in EASYJET fell over one per cent yesterday, after rising 18 per cent in the past three months.
Load-Date: November 19, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet annual profit jumps Aviation
EasyJet annual profit jumps; Aviation
Business World (Digest)
November 18, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 318 words
Highlight: British low-cost airline EasyJet shrugged off concerns about an increasingly competitive European travel 
market, saying it was positioned to deliver further growth after annual profits jumped 21.5 percent.
Body
British low-cost airline EasyJet shrugged off concerns about an increasingly competitive European travel market, 
saying it was positioned to deliver further growth after annual profits jumped 21.5 percent.
Cheap fares have helped EasyJet and rival Ryanair win market share in the European short-haul travel sector, 
against traditional airlines like Air France-KLM and Lufthansa who have recently announced plans to compete more 
aggressively.
EasyJet reported pretax profit of 581 million pounds for the year ended September, in line with upgraded company 
guidance in the range of 575 million pounds to 580 million pounds, compared to the 478 million pounds it made in 
the prior year.
The company said it would lift its ordinary dividend per share by 35.5 percent to 45.4 pence, in line with a proposal 
made earlier this year to reward shareholders with 40 percent of pretax profit, above the previous one-third 
distribution. "EasyJet is successfully executing its strategy of offering its customers low fares to great destinations 
with friendly service so that it will continue to win in a more competitive market. This means EasyJet is well placed 
to continue to deliver sustainable returns and growth for shareholders," the company said in a statement. The 
company, Europe's no.2 low-cost carrier after Ryanair, said forward bookings for the winter season were slightly 
ahead of last year, and its exposure to Europe's primary airports, where new slots are not readily available, would 
help attract more customers. Ireland's Ryanair has recently been moving into space traditionally occupied by 
EasyJet - improving its formerly much criticized customer service and planning to expand into primary airports used 
by business travelers. That strategy and a surge in winter bookings helped Ryanair raise its annual profit forecast 
by almost 20 percent earlier this month. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
EasyJet annual profit jumps Aviation
Load-Date: November 20, 2014
End of Document
Former owner warns of hard times ahead Airlines: Monarch
Former owner warns of hard times ahead; Airlines: Monarch
Financial Times (London, England)
November 17, 2014 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 22
Length: 692 words
Byline: Roger Blitz, Leisure Industries Correspondent
Highlight: Fabio Mantegazza says the reborn company faces tough competition in a constantly changing industry
Body
Monarch Group, the travel airline business rescued from the brink of collapse , faces a huge task in its new guise as 
rival to easyJet, Ryanair and other low-cost operators, says its former owner.
Earlier this year Fabio Mantegazza and his family poured £50m into a survival package that saved 2,500 jobs and 
kept the business they had owned for nearly half a century intact.
Their payment helped reduce the deficit in the company's defined-benefit pensions scheme and provide capital as 
part of the sale to Greybull Capital. The turnround specialist, which paid a nominal sum for the business, is putting 
in £75m for a 90 per cent stake.
A charter airline business for many years, Monarch is being streamlined. Some 700 jobs have gone and charter and 
long-haul flying is ending. It will be a low-cost airline, flying to Mediterranean and other European destinations.
But though delighted that Monarch has survived, Mr Mantegazza remains concerned. "Life will be hard. They will 
have to work as hard as easyJet and Ryanair," he said.
"Customers have enormous choice. The industry is changing all the time, businesses have to be well run and 
financed, very competitive and clear what they are about."
Former owner warns of hard times ahead Airlines: Monarch
Monarch made good money for the Swiss-Italian Mantegazzas. It was one of a clutch of travel businesses, 
including tour operator Cosmos, that helped the family to a ranking of 317 on the Forbes billionaires list worth an 
estimated $2.4bn.
But the past few years have been painful. Failed rescue plans and its ultimate sale last month have proved 
financially costly for the Mantegazzas.
"We had a very good run of good luck," said Mr Mantegazza over lunch at his Mayfair flat. "But good luck comes to 
an end."
The charter business model came unstuck. A potent mixture of the internet and low-cost airlines overhauled the 
way people booked holidays and made Monarch's charter business increasingly anachronistic.
Sudden events made it particularly vulnerable. The Arab Spring of 2011 drove up the price of oil and pushed 
Monarch to the brink. That summer, Mr Mantegazza had a heart attack. The same year his family injected £40m 
into a rescue plan, but it was not deemed sufficient, so another £20m was required.
The rescue plan promised £17m of profits in 2013, doubling to £35m in 2014. Quite soon the forecasts were revived 
downwards - to £20m, then break even. In Easter of this year, new chief executive Andrew Swaffield was predicting 
a £50m loss.
More money was needed to prop up Monarch: £15m last Christmas, £25m in the summer. A new rescue plan, 
requiring a further £75m of investment, promised a return to profit - in 2018. But the family rejected it.
"Before we got there, we knew we would get clobbered again," said Mr Mantegazza. He, his father Sergio and the 
Albeck family - partners of the Mantegazzas since the 1950s - decided to sell.
"We did not want to continue to support the business," said Mr Mantegazza. "We felt it was not viable to become 
investor of last resort and it was not a business we wanted to stay in."
But the Mantegazzas felt loyalty to the Monarch staff. The problem was the business was on life-support, time was 
running out and tensions between management and owners were rising. Some meetings involved more than 40 
people.
"We didn't want to sign any blank cheque," said Mr Mantegazza.
The sale to Greybull involves a 10 per cent stake going to the Pension Protection Fund, the lifeboat fund for 
scheme members. It was a vital component of the deal. The Mantegazzas feel a sense of "privilege" at achieving an 
exit that keeps the business alive. A liquidation would have been "a very regrettable outcome", he said.
"There were 15 occasions in the summer when if we had got a wrong answer the business would have gone down 
the tubes."
His 87-year-old father felt a sense of closure when told the sale had gone through, said Mr Mantegazza. "He 
thanked me," he recalled. "He was relieved."
As for his own feelings, he said: "It reminds me of when my brother died." Monarch's plight consumed his attention 
just as his brother's funeral arrangements had.
"I don't know how I feel right now. I don't know whether I can grieve for this," he said.
Load-Date: November 16, 2014
End of Document
Ireland Interviewed: Michael O'Leary, chief executive, Ryanair : published December 7, 2008
Ireland Interviewed: Michael O'Leary, chief executive, Ryanair: published 
December 7, 2008
Sunday Business Post
November 16, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1910 words
Body
**David Clerkin:**You've launched a bid for Aer Lingus, the national carrier. Why now?
**Michael O'Leary:**It's a combination of three things. One, the Aer Lingus interim results were so awful. They're 
forecasting operating losses in 2008 and again in 2009. They've hedged oil out into next year at almost $100 a 
barrel, which will make the situation worse. And they're now cutting back on short-haul and long-haul capacity and 
deferring [aircraft] orders. To our mind, the thing is going to get much worse in the next 12 to 24 months.
[Second] we think a lot of the emotion has gone out of it, from the government point of view, since two years ago. 
And the government needs the money.
The third, and probably the primary driver, is that the whole competitive environment in Europe has changed.
Europe is now tearing up what was previously the competition rule book - putting banks together in much the same 
way as the Irish government is trying to do, realising that you need large, national champions if you're going to 
survive. The two key issues for us are that Aer Lingus can't survive on its own - it's losing money - and that nobody 
else is interested in it.
**DC:**You seem sure the other major airlines aren't interested in it.
**M O'L:**Well, if they are, it's a case of "here's your chance - step up to the plate".
**DC:**And what happens then?
**M O'L:**The offer would be materially worse for Ireland. The only reason any of the big three (Air France/KLM, 
Lufthansa, BA) would have an interest in Aer Lingus is to take the Heathrow slots.
Ireland Interviewed: Michael O'Leary, chief executive, Ryanair : published December 7, 2008
They won't guarantee the Heathrow slots [for routes to Ireland. The airline] won't be headquartered, managed and 
controlled in Ireland. It won't commit to lower fares and scrapping fuel surcharges.
**DC:**Is it fair to say that, if you succeed, getting your hands on Aer Lingus's EUR 800 million cash pile would 
mean the takeover wouldn't cost you anything?
**M O'L:**It's not fair to say it won't cost us anything. It's losing money. Yes, at the end of August, it had net cash of 
EUR 800 million. We have no idea how much cash would be left at the end of the present redundancy programme. 
You need to factor in, as well, how much money it's going to lose this year and next year.
And then we're going to drop the revenues by EUR 140 million a year. The fuel surcharges are worth EUR 100 
million a year and the fare cuts are EUR 40 million a year.
So we're paying three-quarters of a billion euro for an airline that's losing money and we're going to take another 
EUR 140 million off the revenue base.
With these mergers, you don't buy anything for free. We don't expect to be buying this for free either. I see lots of 
nonsense about the value of the Heathrow slots. The Heathrow slots have no value, because we guarantee that 
they'll be used only for the Irish routes.
**DC:**You talk about Aer Lingus being vulnerable because it's in a loss-making situation and you talk about banks 
that are in trouble being merged. Doesn't the cash pile mean that Aer Lingus has room to make losses of, say, EUR 
70 million a year for anything up to ten years?
**M O'L:**Yes, and there's every prospect that it will. If your response to a recession is to cancel the Los Angeles 
route, cut back the short-haul capacity, reduce the long-haul capacity, increase fares and hang on to unjustifiable 
fuel surcharges, your traffic is going to keep dwindling, you're going to have to go back for more and more 
reorganisations, more and more payouts to staff.
There's very little vision at the moment of what the future for Aer Lingus is. Don't take my word for it. The Austrians, 
the Swiss, the Germans, the Italians, the Spanish, everybody else in Europe, says: ''We need to consolidate into 
one of the big three carriers.   The problem for Aer Lingus, like TAP in Portugal, is that it's not of any strategic 
importance to the big three carriers.
It doesn't have a big hub - Ireland is not an important market to the big three - so Aer Lingus gets isolated.
The real problem for Aer Lingus is that its cost base is so much higher than ours. If we're not successful this time, in 
five years' time Ryanair will be a 100 million passenger-a-year airline, but Aer Lingus will still be slomping [sic] 
along with 10 million passengers a year and losing money, going nowhere.
**DC:**Do you really want Aer Lingus that badly?
**M O'L:**It would be nice to have but it's certainly not critical to Ryanair's growth. Whether we acquire, or merge 
with, Aer Lingus or not, Ryanair will still double in size to 100 million passengers within the next five years. The 
problem for the government and the board of Aer Lingus is - what does Aer Lingus do? This chance may not come 
around again for Aer Lingus. It's had two years as an independent company. We know what it'll do now - it'll put up 
the fares, put up the fuel surcharges, lose money. Nothing changes.
**DC:**Would concluding this deal be something you'd finish your career on if you succeeded?
**M O'L:**No. This is just one of those opportunities that crops up. We did [the acquisition of] Buzz previously.
There's an opportunity here. OK, we surprised everybody two years ago and it caused panic and everything else. 
But we set out a clear vision for Aer Lingus - lower the costs, lower the fares and grow the business. [Aer Lingus] 
said: ''No, we want to be independent and we'll deliver superior returns'' and all that.
Ireland Interviewed: Michael O'Leary, chief executive, Ryanair : published December 7, 2008
They have - with the greatest respect - failed miserably for two years to deliver on any of the promises they set out 
in the defence document.
We still think a lot of that is achievable, but really it's only achievable with our help. We're the people with the 
access to cheap aircraft. We're the people who would help them. I think the management in Aer Lingus are 
probably straining at the leash trying to be radical in the way the company develops. But they don't seem to get 
there. The board is not exactly what you'd call a legendary group of innovative business people.
**DC:**Why do you think the Aer Lingus board doesn't see things your way?
**M O'L:**I think it's emotive. The unions are emotive about Ryanair, the government is emotive, the media tend to 
be emotive. Nobody looks through to the underlying proposal. They all get caught up in the personalities and the 
whole thing.
**DC:**Is your strategy to convince the board, to convince the government, or to convince the government to 
convince the board?
**M O'L:**We want to convince all of the stakeholders - we want to convince the government, we want to convince 
the board and we'd like to convince the ESOT as well - in whatever order we have the meetings.
Frankly, we're not going to persuade anybody in a meeting. All we want is to outline the benefits of the deal and 
then ask them to read the offer document when it comes.
It is a compelling offer and I would say to the board, the government and the ESOT: ''If you can come up with a 
better offer from somebody else, Godspeed. But if you can't, we've seen what you can do on your own in the last 
two years, and more of that is going to be bad for the country, bad for the government, bad for Aer Lingus and bad 
for the employees.  
**DC:**The Aer Lingus board has said the competition issue means this offer isn't capable of being completed. Why 
do you think it can be completed?
**M O'L:**Well, that's just factually wrong. This offer is new and, if it was acceptable to the majority of shareholders, 
it would have to go through a similar competition review process.
But the guarantees we will deliver this time in terms of the fare reductions and the fuel surcharge removal will be 
materially different and will satisfy, not just the government, but also the employees and the competition authorities.
For a company that has been preparing a takeover defence for many months, I would have thought it was a 
particularly weak starting point.
But the difficulty for Aer Lingus is that it doesn't have any strong defence. It had a strong defence two years ago:    
We'll be independent, we'll be premium, we'll be profitable, we'll be growing, we'll be visionary.   In two years, it's 
been none of those things.
**DC:**Why would the European Commission change its mind this time?
**M O'L:**I think the package and the offer document will be dramatically better and will address a lot of the 
guarantees that concerned the commission the last time.
**DC:**Even if you have a near-monopoly position? Part of the downward pressure on your prices at the moment 
comes from Aer Lingus, surely.
**M O'L:**Complete rubbish. For starters, there's no commercial, competition pressure on Ryanair from Aer Lingus. 
On most of the routes between Ireland and Britain, the market share split is about 80/ 20. Aer Lingus isn't a 
competitive threat to us.
Ireland Interviewed: Michael O'Leary, chief executive, Ryanair : published December 7, 2008
In the last two years, Ryanair has reduced its fares by 7 per cent. Aer Lingus has increased its short-haul fares by 7 
per cent. If we were really competing with each other, why is Aer Lingus able to increase its fares by 7 per cent?
The best example of this is Shannon. I already have a monopoly in Shannon. I don't compete with anybody. 
[Shannon flights] have the lowest fares on and off the island of Ireland.
We have two million passengers a year there. When Aer Lingus walked away from Shannon, Ryanair came in and 
not just filled the breach but doubled the traffic.
We have a monopoly in Knock. Why aren't we charging everybody to Knock 300 quid? Why don't we charge 
everybody to Shannon 300 quid? We don't, because you can't grow at 20 per cent a year, which is our model, and 
charge everybody EUR 300.
The choice for Ireland is, if you don't do this deal, what is your alternative? Do you think Aer Lingus is going to be a 
competitor to Ryanair in two to three years' time?
Aer Lingus isn't a competitor now. It's the reflex: ''Oh, Ryanair has a monopoly.   Ryanair already has loads of 
monopolies and yet we're still growing by 20 per cent a year and we're still reducing fares by 7 per cent a year.
**DC:**Why would the government accept this offer after rejecting you before?
**M O'L:**This is the only offer that guarantees the long-term future of Aer Lingus, that guarantees the Heathrow 
slots, that guarantees the shamrock and that sees Aer Lingus double in size from 10 to 20 million passengers over 
the next five years and creates 1,000 jobs.
On top of that, you get EUR 188 million. While it is a small amount of money, when you look at the next round of 
spending cuts, the guts of EUR 200 million is going to go a long way towards minimising spending cuts in politically 
sensitive areas.
This is the way forward for this government anyway. All over Europe, governments are looking at things that were 
unthinkable 12 months ago.
In Britain, putting Lloyds TSB together with HBoS was unthinkable. They've 40 per cent market share over there. 
Putting Bank of Ireland together with some other bank here was unthinkable.
**DC:**What happens if this bid fails? Would you consider selling your investment in Aer Lingus?
**M O'L:**We will continue to be a long-term strategic investor in Aer Lingus. Of that, I am certain. We are a serious 
airline. We're one of the four serious airline players in Europe. If we decide we're going to offer three-quarters of a 
billion euro for a loss-making airline, we're serious about what we're going to do with it.
We're not going to dump the toys out of the pram because somebody said no to us. Life is full of rejections. I 
learned that in the tennis club in Mullingar when I was 14. You just get on with it.
Load-Date: November 17, 2014
End of Document
Deficits in top firms' pensions doubled Pensions Hole
Deficits in top firms' pensions doubled; Pensions Hole
Business World (Digest)
November 12, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 800 words
Highlight: Deficits in the Defined Benefit (DB) pension schemes of the largest Irish private and public sector bodies 
more than doubled between January and August this year to E8.5bn.
Body
Deficits in the Defined Benefit (DB) pension schemes of the largest Irish private and public sector bodies more than 
doubled between January and August this year to E8.5bn.
That's according to an analysis by LCP today that showed that a gain of more than 12pc in global equity markets to 
August 2014, falling bond yields over the same period have increased these deficits to more than E8.5bn.
The pension include those of Bank of Ireland, Smurfit Kappa, Diageo, CIE and CRH.
The report examines the Defined Benefit pension schemes of 16 of the largest Irish quoted companies (by market 
capitalisation) and 13 semi-state/state-controlled companies with defined benefit pension schemes and is the sixth 
such report to be published by LCP. Of the companies analysed, only one reported that it had sufficient assets to 
meet its accounting liabilities (RTE at 101pc). The average funding level for schemes analysed rose from 81pc in 
2012 to 85pc in 2013. The government Pensions Levy has resulted in further increases in funding deficits. 
According to LCP, more than E2.3bn has been removed from Irish pension schemes by the levy with cE1bn being 
contributed by the 29 pension schemes analysed in the report. Many schemes have disappeared through wind-up, 
benefits have been cut in others and more are implementing other deficit funding programmes. Reductions in 
benefits have varied from pensionable pay freezes (Grafton), changes in retirement age (An Post), reductions in 
pension increases (C&C) to closure to future accrual (AIB). The liability management exercises of some companies 
incorporated more than one element. At the extreme end of the spectrum the defined benefit pension scheme of 
Permanent TSB was wound up completely. Irish pension schemes continue to hold higher than average equity 
allocations when compared to other jurisdictions. Equity holdings remain at 50pc of the overall assets held. 
However, a number of companies have reduced their equity holding substantially, such as AIB, whose equity 
holding reduced from 45pc to 31pc. Overall the average holding of 50pc in equities indicates a higher risk profile 
when compared to other jurisdictions (LCPs UK report disclosed that defined benefit pension schemes operated by 
Deficits in top firms' pensions doubled Pensions Hole
FTSE 100 companies in the UK hold 33pc of their assets in equities). The highest equity allocation was held by 
Ryanair: 77pc equity allocation in 2013, up from 74pc in 2012. The lowest equity allocation was held by C&C Group 
PLC: 25pc equity allocation. Assumptions of life expectancy affect the value of pension scheme liabilities in that an 
increase in the assumed life expectancy will result in an increase in the value of liabilities. The average assumption 
was that male members who retire at age 65 at the accounting date would live to age 87.2 and females to age 89.0. 
The companies analysed are also assuming that over the next 20 years, the life expectancy of male retirees will 
increase by approximately 2.4 years. 2013 saw an increase in litigation and legislative activity in relation to pension 
schemes. ESB and DAA/Aer Lingus were involved in high profile disputes in relation to pensions. The LRC 
brokered a deal in December 2013 between ESB Management and the Unions which averted a strike. There were 
some high profile court cases where trustees and employers were sued in relation to actions during defined benefit 
pension scheme wind ups. The companies analysed paid substantial contributions - over E1.67bn - to their pension 
schemes in 2013. In many cases, the employer contributions paid were significantly higher than the cost of accrual 
as attempts continue to eliminate past service. "It is clear from the 2014 report that defined pension schemes 
remain under considerable pressure. While the global recovery in equity markets has provided some respite, the 
significant fall in bond yields during 2014 will have a devastating impact on the balance sheets in many companies' 
2014 accounts, according to Conor Daly, Partner at LCP. "Recent reports suggesting that the European Central 
Bank might be preparing to buy corporate bonds have driven yields to new lows and pension liabilities to new 
heights. Having seen many difficult benefit reductions and funding plans being implemented over the last 24 months 
with pain being taken on all sides, it would seem that defined benefit pension schemes cannot catch a break." "We 
would urge companies and trustees to focus on the fundamentals and establish the expected contribution 
requirement and inherent risk in their defined benefit pension schemes. While the balance sheet cannot be ignored, 
we would have a concern that a classic case of the 'tail' wagging the 'dog' will emerge with the accounting numbers 
becoming a key driver in strategic decision making." For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 17, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair: A little more Mr Nice Guy The big interview Kenny Jacobs
Ryanair: A little more Mr Nice Guy; The big interview Kenny Jacobs
City A.M.
November 12, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 29
Length: 1207 words
Byline: Tim Adler
Body
AFRIEND of mine was so exasperated with Ryanair's strict baggage allowance that she would pile on jumpers and 
coats and waddle through airport security - anything to avoid paying the airline's punitive bag charges.
Others have boycotted Ryanair completely, fed up with its rude check-in staff and unhelpful cabin crew. Its website 
seemed designed to trap the unwary into paying for extras they didn't need. Eventually even Michael O'Leary, the 
showman CEO, conceded it wasn't good business to "deliberately piss people off".
Last year, Ryanair issued two profit warnings - the first in over a decade. It admitted its "abrupt culture" had become 
a problem. Ryanair's focus on cost cutting, applied with zealous passion, had to change. Its new strategy would be 
to attract premium passengers from low-cost rivals such as EasyJet, Vueling and Norwegian.
Ryanair's board acknowledged that the airline had to change - the question was how? Enter Kenny Jacobs, 
Ryanair's chief marketing officer, hired in December 2013 to change public perception about the low-cost carrier. 
Jacobs had spent five years as CMO of www.Moneysupermarket.com and many years at Tesco before that. Jacobs 
says: "I've been through a couple of companies that went through change. Each had a bucket list of what they 
wanted to do."
He smiles ruefully when I tell him my various tales of woe. "The business had reached the point where it need to 
change and needed to do things differently. It was time for change. And customer experience was one of the things 
most wrong. Boarding Ryanair aircraft was infamous, creating a fractious contact point between customers and 
staff."
Ryanair: A little more Mr Nice Guy The big interview Kenny Jacobs
Jacobs, 41, has flown in to London from one of his weekly whistlestop tours of Ryanair destinations. Each week he 
visits at least four Ryanair airports, and so far has racked up 107 flights on Europe's biggest airline. He remains 
energetic despite this punishing travel schedule.
Jacobs, who has become the public face of Ryanair, instituted a change management programme called Always 
Getting Better. The programme had five planks: fixing things that customers disliked, improving the travel 
experience, appealing more to business travellers and families, going back onto the centralised booking system 
used by travel agents, and improving the online experience.
Scrapping the word "passenger" was one of the first things Jacobs changed, preffering the word "customer" 
because it implies an ongoing relationship that lasts beyond the airport terminal. According to Jacobs, around 40 
per cent of customers are now repeat buyers. "Michael O'Leary uses the word 'customer' now, not 'passenger'," 
Jacobs says.
Key to changing public perception about the brand was overhauling its clunky website. Jacobs has called the old 
site "rubbish" - it didn't work on mobile and barely worked on tablet. The new site runs smoothly and has got rid of 
those irritating ha-has where you unwittingly bought travel insurance. Jacobs says: "The old website wasn't built for 
customers. Ryanair had missed out on a couple of generations digitally. The website has changed completely and 
we will continue to improve it."
Before Jacobs' arrival, Ryanair also knew little about its customers.
Ryanair was not alone in this - airlines have little information about who flies on them. This was an anathema to 
Jacobs, who was used to the massive amounts of information Tesco has about its customers. Indeed, Tesco owns 
Dunnhumby, a data company that crunches massive amounts of information about what you buy and where. He 
says: "Working at Tesco with Clubcard loyalty scheme, we knew everything about our customers. Airlines don't do 
that. We're now converting that data into a big asset for the company."
Ryanair plans to start making personalising offers, differentiating between its customers. The company has 
established what it calls Ryanair Lab, combining digital marketing, technology and data teams at its headquarters in 
Dublin. Ryanair has been on a massive recruitment drive for developers and data scientists since, with plans to 
triple the size of the data team in the next few years to around 100 employees.
Once its new strategy was clear, the airline announced that it would offer allocated seating on its planes - ending 
the unseemly rush by passengers to secure the best seats - relax cabin bag restrictions, reduce charges and 
loosen booking restrictions. Jacobs says: "The brand has moved on dramatically. We've done a really good job."
And this new softer, friendlier approach appears to be paying off. According to the YouGov BrandIndex, brand 
sentiment towards Ryanair has improved by 27 per cent in Britain since the changes. In August a record 9.4 million 
flew on Ryanair with planes at 94 per cent capacity, and this year 87 million people will fly Ryanair compared with 
82 million in 2014.
Buoyed by this, the carrier has big plans. Ryanair hopes to more than double passenger numbers in the next 10 
years after agreeing a deal to buy up to 200 new Boeing aircraft. O'Leary says the bigger fleet will allow Ryanair to 
increase passenger numbers to more than 150 million by 2024. It is even talking about offering transatlantic flights 
to America for as little as (EURO)99 (£78) per person.
Right now though, the focus remains fixed on Europe. Ryanair is concentrating on Germany, Italy, Scandinavia and 
the UK as areas for growth. Says Jacobs: "America is not a priority right now. We could double our size just staying 
within Europe."
With helpful staff, extra legroom and a live-and-let-live baggage policy, Ryanair is going after the more discerning 
customer who values the in-flight experience. That said, Jacobs thinks that some customers will miss the old 
buccaneering attitude.
Ryanair: A little more Mr Nice Guy The big interview Kenny Jacobs
"One of the reasons I joined the brand was because of that Robin Hood spirit. We're still the Aldi of the air. There's 
an element of authenticity that people still appreciate," he grins.
So, what next for Jacobs as Ryanair moves on to the second phase of its new, less couldn't-care-less strategy? 
Ryanair is improving its plane interiors - most Ryanair planes have all the warmth of an East European motorway 
coach - with extra legroom and an improved colour scheme. Jacobs waxes lyrical about possibilities for 
Ryanairbranded in-flight family entertainment. Most importantly, Ryanair is embarking on a cabin crew training 
programme. He grimaces when I tell him that Ryanair cabin crew have complained to me mid-flight about how badly 
the company mistreats them.
But won't a new disruptive airline come along as Ryanair climbs upmarket? (Business flyers accounted for 20 per 
cent of rival EasyJet's passenger numbers last year.) Jacobs levels at me. "That's just not going to happen," he 
says, shaking his head.
The average cost of a Ryanair flight was (EURO)46 this year, he claims, compared with (EURO)83 for EasyJet and 
(EURO)242 for British Airways. Nevertheless, Ryanair's biggest challenge will be to find the balancing point 
between always getting better and keeping costs down.
Video special WATCH Kenny Jacobs talks to Tim Adler about the future of Ryanair http://business-reporter.co.uk
"The business had reached the point where it was time for change. And customer experience was one of the things 
most wrong" - Kenny Jacobs
Load-Date: November 12, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair , Boxever in software deal Boxever Ryanair
Ryanair, Boxever in software deal; Boxever Ryanair
Business World (Digest)
November 11, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 294 words
Highlight: Ryanair has taken on Boxever, a provider of customer intelligence and predictive marketing for the travel 
industry, as part of its new customer-centric policy.
Body
Ryanair has taken on Boxever, a provider of customer intelligence and predictive marketing for the travel industry, 
as part of its new customer-centric policy.
Boxever will implement a new customer intelligence and personalised marketing platform within Ryanair's Digital 
Experience team.
Following the introduction of Ryanair's tailored business and family products and as part of its "Always Getting 
Better" program, Ryanair is now providing its customers with messaging that is more suited to their travel needs, 
using Boxever's platform.
"We have rolled out a series of customer experience improvements over the past year as part of our 'Always 
Getting Better' program and we have particularly focused on how we communicate with our 89 million customers," 
said Dara Brady, Ryanair's Head of Digital Experience. "Boxever's platform helps us learn more about our 
customers, ensuring we can tailor our offering to better suit their requirements." Boxever enables Ryanair to create 
a rich, 360-degree view of each customer, using information from across the organisation, allowing it to accurately 
segment its customer base into distinct groups and offer specific products to these various groupings, Boxever said. 
"We are seeing passengers demand more than just low fares from their airlines - they want to feel like the airline 
understands them individually," said Dave O'Flanagan, CEO, Boxever. "By evolving the way they identify and 
communicate with customers - and making these interactions more relevant, contextual, and personal - Ryanair is 
responding to customer expectations, which should help improve customer loyalty and drive even more repeat 
business. We're pleased to be a partner in helping them achieve this goal." For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 14, 2014
Ryanair , Boxever in software deal Boxever Ryanair
End of Document
Boeing Bags $8.5B Order For 737 MAX Jets
Boeing Bags $8.5B Order For 737 MAX Jets
International Business Times News
November 10, 2014 Monday 2:47 PM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 396 words
Byline: Sneha Shankar
Body
Nov 10, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 Japan's SMBC Aviation Capital Ltd., an aircraft leasing company, said Monday that it will buy 80 737 MAX planes 
from The Boeing Co. in a deal worth more than $8.5 billion at list prices. The latest order, which will help cater to the 
growing demand for air travel in Asia[1], is the largest one by any leasing company for the narrow-body jet's 
upgraded version.
 The 737 MAX is best suited for short- and medium-haul flights and both companies said that the deal will help grow 
demand for the planes among low-cost carriers. SMBC has now become the fiftieth customer for the 737 MAX, 
which was launched in August 2011. Since then, the jet has secured more than 2,400 orders, including an $11 
billion order[2] from Ryanair in September. SMBC Capital is controlled by Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui Financial 
Group, Inc.
 The plane features a new engine developed by CFM, a joint venture between New York-based General Electric Co 
and French firm Snecma. The new engine is claimed to make the single-aisle jet 14 percent more fuel-efficient than 
current models of the 737 that Boeing[3] makes. According to an estimate by the airplane maker, airline companies 
will need more than 25,600 single-aisle jets over the next 20 years.
 Chicago-based Boeing, which has been operating in Japan for the past 60 years, considers the country to be one 
of its strongest markets. Japanese customers have bought more than 1,000 Boeing airplanes, including models like 
the 737, the 747-8 wide-body jet, the 777 series, the 787 Dreamliner, 737 MAX and the 777X, the statement said.
 'Today's announcement from a top leasing company is a vote of confidence in our 737 MAX and helps SMBC 
Aviation Capital capture the strong demand in the single-aisle market," Boeing Commercial Airplanes President and 
CEO Ray Conner, said in the statement[4].
 [1]: http://www.ibtimes.com/china-will-surpass-us-commercial-aircraft-demand-2030s-45-asia-pacific-market-says-
boeing-1678506 [2]:            http://www.ibtimes.com/boeing-launches-737-max-200-11-billion-order-ryanair-1681518 
[3]:            http://www.ibtimes.com/boeing-shatters-3q-expectations-us-navy-p-8-poseidon-demand-737-orders-
1709960 [4]:            http://boeing.mediaroom.com/2014-11-10-Boeing-SMBC-Aviation-Capital-Announce-Order-for-
80-737-MAXs#assets_117 
Load-Date: November 10, 2014
Boeing Bags $8.5B Order For 737 MAX Jets
End of Document
Ryanair launches new update to mobile app
Ryanair launches new update to mobile app
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 10, 2014 Monday 7:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Technology & Telecommunications
Length: 217 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched a new update to its mobile app that reportedly allows customers to browse, book, 
check-in, board and fly on its airfares.
Body
The Ryanair app, which is available to download in both iPhone and Android formats, allow customers to: log in with 
their 'My Ryanair' profile; search Ryanair's 1,600 low fare routes; make quicker flight bookings; choose & book 
allocated seats; manage bookings & add baggage; book hotels & car hire; book optional services such as 
insurance; check-in & download mobile boarding passes; and view live flight information. The latest app update is 
now available in Dutch, French, German & Polish language versions. It has an option to add existing bookings to 
their 'My Ryanair' profile and IOS Passbook integration. Ryanair's app, which has been downloaded over 3m times, 
is available in Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, Polish and Spanish, with further language versions to follow. 
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Over 3m customers have downloaded our new app to date and our latest update offers 
an improved booking service, as well as new Dutch, French, German and Polish language versions. Customers can 
also save their Ryanair flight bookings into the IOS Passbook facility, as well as add existing bookings to their My 
Ryanair profile, allowing them to check-in and travel on mobile boarding passes. We will continue to work hard to 
improve our app with further updates and upgrades to follow."
Load-Date: November 16, 2014
End of Document
Implications for Ryanair 's competitors
Implications for Ryanair's competitors
Financial Times (London, England)
November 10, 2014 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 8
Length: 201 words
Body
Sir, Joe Gill ( Letters , November 5) argues that unit costs are the key to understanding Ryanair's competitive 
position. The three "strategic cornerstones" he identifies are necessary conditions for Ryanair to drive down unit 
costs. What are the implications for its competitors? The emerging capacity/demand gap that Lex (November 4) 
identified requires that either planned industry capacity growth will shrink or that demand growth will be stimulated 
above its GDP-implied rate. While the latter is possible at the individual airline level, the leverage of unit-cost-driven 
fare reductions at the industry level is small relative to that of GDP growth.
Thus, if Lex's estimates of the capacity/demand gap are accurate, as is Mr Gill's implied estimate of Ryanair's 
relative unit cost reductions, competitors should be forced to reduce capacity growth. Of course, every airline could 
choose to forge ahead with their capacity growth plans. Unless demand growth is significantly underestimated, this 
would lead to competitive fare reductions and reduced industry profitability. However, how many investors will be 
betting against Ryanair's relative performance given its record?
John Griffiths
Seattle, WA, US
Load-Date: November 9, 2014
Implications for Ryanair 's competitors
End of Document
Stock take: market week
Stock take: market week
Sunday Business Post
November 9, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 582 words
Body
   Primark's trading success and significant expansion delivered another magnificent year.  
*George Weston, ABF chief executive*
.....
   Primark's international expansion programme remains very successful, a theme we expect to continue. [For ABF] 
we expect mid-teen group earnings growth to resume driven by Primark.  
*Richard Edwards, analyst at Citi*
   With further progress expected in the second half, we reiterate our buy rating. We believe the valuation does not 
reflect the shift in the business model to cash generation.  
*Kate Calvert, Investec analyst*
.........................
**DCC attempts to lessen exposure to weather-dependent home heating fuels**
   It's a deliberate strategy. [Next year] home heating oils will drop below 20 per cent of the volumes in our energy 
division. I'm not saying we'd never invest again in a home heating business - it's not suddenly a bad sector. But we 
are trying to reduce some of the volatility.
   The amount of money we have spent [on acquisitions] doesn't mean we will be taking our foot off the pedal. 
Whether it is our LPG (liquid petroleum gas) business, our oil business or our IT business, we remain active in 
pursuit of buying opportunities. There will be more deals over the next 12 to 18 months.  
*Tommy Breen, chief executive, DCC*
Stock take: market week
.........................
**Ryanair's business strategy begins to pay dividends**
   With business traffic lifting average yields by 3 per cent-plus in FY16 and 4 per cent-plus in FY17, Ryanair is able 
to be more aggressive on standard pricing and capacity plans. As such Ryanair will continue to take market share 
and drive the bottom line. We have raised our FY16 & FY17 numbers by 20 per cent. Based on 8.7x EV/EBITDAR 
(vs a 10yr av. 8x) on improving returns, we lift our target price from EUR 9.15 to EUR 10.40.  
*Mark Simpson, analyst, Goodbody*
.....
   While encouraged by the continuing strength of forward bookings, we would caution that close in bookings for the 
remainder of this winter will be subject to unforeseen events which always overhang our business.  
*Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive*
.........................
**Smurfit Kappa looks to pay down debt**
   Following a period of debt paydown, SKG is substantially better positioned today than at any other point in its 
recent history, with a well invested asset base and an optimal capital structure. The full year contribution of recently 
acquired businesses, a substantially reduced interest expense and the group's unrelenting focus on operating 
efficiency will deliver and drive value.
   Going forward, this presents a broad range of strategic and financial options, and the capacity to deliver an 
improved financial performance at all points of the industry cycle.  
*Gary McGann, Smurfit Kappa chief executive*
.........................
**Kerry Group's ingredients business continues to underpin strong performance**
   Kerry has benefited from increased demand for clean labelling and enhanced nutritional content from
food manufacturing customers . . . and a demand to reduce the sugar content of soft drinks. The US remains the 
main growth region in the developed markets with Europe lagging due to the weak consumer environment. Political 
unrest in eastern Europe/Russia may also impede growth.
   The continuing frugality of consumers in the UK and Ireland and the ensuing switch from traditional retailers to 
discounters, where Kerry is relatively under-exposed, will likely be a continuing trend.  
*Liam Igoe, Goodbody analyst*
Load-Date: November 10, 2014
End of Document
Irish firms sitting strategically pretty atop EUR 12.3bn cash pile
Irish firms sitting strategically pretty atop EUR 12.3bn cash pile
Sunday Business Post
November 9, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 862 words
Body
Ireland's publicly listed companies doubled the amount of cash they have collectively on their balance sheets during 
the recession, and are now sitting on a EUR 12.3 billion cash pile.
This war chest leaves them in a strong position to avail of acquisition and other opportunities as recovery takes 
hold.
In 2006 the same Iseq-listed companies held just EUR 6.4 billion in cash, according to analysis carried out by this 
newspaper. A further EUR 1.7 billion has also been amassed by Irish companies such as DCC, Grafton and Icon 
which are listed on foreign stock exchanges, the analysis shows.
   Irish companies are in a relatively better position on their balance sheets than a lot of their peers,   said Robert 
Eason, head of equity research at Goodbody Stockbrokers.    When things open up, as they are now doing, it 
presents strategic options for these companies and management have the cards in their hands.
   A lot of the Irish companies had not overstretched their balance sheets coming into the peak years of the boom. 
Then, over the difficult years from 2007 to 2013, a lot of them used their cash generation to strengthen their balance 
sheets even more.
   That now puts a lot of these companies in a very strong strategic position to take advantage of whatever 
opportunities are out there or to make the decision to give some back to shareholders.  
In total, 14 Iseq companies each have more than EUR 100 million in cash or cash equivalents on their balance 
sheet, according to the latest Bloomberg data, collated by this newspaper. Ryanair dwarfs all others with gross cash 
of EUR 4.4 billion, although when its total debt of EUR 3.8 billion is factored in this leaves it with net cash of EUR 
618 million.
Irish firms sitting strategically pretty atop EUR 12.3bn cash pile
The Dubai-based, but Iseq-listed, oil company Dragon Oil comes next with EUR 2.5 billion in cash and no debt. It 
looks set to use its financial might to launch a EUR 629 million takeover bid for fellow Iseq-listed oil and gas player 
Petroceltic, which itself has EUR 106 million in cash on its books, according to the latest Bloomberg data.
Of the top 14 Irish cash hoarders, just six of them - Ryanair, Dragon, Aer Lingus, Hibernia Reit, Paddy Power and 
Green Reit - are actually in a positive net cash position when the debt on their balance sheets is taken into account. 
But analysts say that in the current low interest rate environment this is not necessarily negative, although each 
company will have very specific issues.
Big industrials such as CRH and Smurfit Kappa, for example, will have a range of defined maturity dates for 
tranches of debt regardless of the amount of cash they are carrying. Smurfit trumpeted its strong debt paydown 
performance last week, saying it    is substantially better positioned today than at any other point in its recent 
history.  
On top of their substantial cash resources, nearly all will have access to revolving debt facilities they are not yet 
using giving them an even bigger potential war chest than their balance sheets suggest, said one analyst.
   It is one thing to have the cash available to you, but the next big thing to understand is whether you have 
management teams that have allocated that cash in the appropriate manner and in a manner that will create value 
for shareholders. It is all about using the cash that you have appropriately,   said Eason.
Debt-free Paddy Power said in its first half results that it is using some of its cash to buy back shares. Kingspan, on 
the other hand, is using $72 million of its EUR 300 million cash pile for the acquisition of US firm Pactiv, a deal 
generally praised by analysts.
In contrast, analysts were critical in recent weeks of C&C's decision to use its financial firepower to bid for British 
pub group Spirit. The Bulmers maker's share price jumped when another company appeared to have won the 
bidding war, suggesting shareholders shared the analysts' scepticism.
Cash-rich Ryanair is in the happy position of being able to spend its cash both
on a massive order of new aircraft and on lining the pockets of shareholders. It will return another EUR 520 million 
via a special dividend in February.
Aer Lingus too has a healthy cash position with EUR 882 million on its balance sheet. Last week, its staff voted to 
accept a pension settlement that will swallow EUR 146.7 million of this cash. But the company will still have a 
substantial sum after sorting out its pension scheme, even if the $70 million price tag on the average short-haul jet 
would burn through that pile very quickly.
Ireland's biggest food companies are also cash rich, putting them in a good position to avail of consolidation in the 
sector. Kerry Group has EUR 235 million, Aryzta has EUR 695, Total Produce has EUR 108 million and Glanbia 
has EUR 89 million.
   The food companies operate in fragmented markets, meaning that there are plenty of bite-sized deals that they 
can do,   said Eason.    When you have the cash ready to go, it helps the decision-making process. It's not 
dependent on equity raising or banks, it's just a case of 'here's the cash, we'll buy your business'. Irish companies 
are in a very strong strategic position to make those choices when the opportunities arise.  
Load-Date: November 10, 2014
End of Document
Surge in software tech jobs that are backbone of sector, says Google recruiter
Surge in software tech jobs that are backbone of sector, says Google 
recruiter
Sunday Business Post
November 9, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 246 words
Body
The chief executive of a talent hire firm that works with companies including Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple and 
Microsoft says that demand is rising weekly for the software staff that are the backbone of the technology sector.
   There has been a huge surge in demand for software developers. We see demand increasing by the week,   said 
John Dennehy, the start-up pioneer who runs Zartis, which regularly surveys its high-profile clients on their needs.
At least 1,500 programming jobs are open at any one time right now, Zartis's research suggests.    There are 
around 600 vacancies in Dublin alone for Java developer jobs,   Dennehy said.
Financial transaction companies Realex and Fineos are among those with a strong need for experts in Java, one of 
the older and most used programming languages, as is Cork-based global data storage giant EMC.
As it completely revamps its online bookings site, Ryanair is just one of the companies recruiting staff with expertise 
in .NET, where there are 700 positions open in Ireland for hires with this software language alone.
The number of software jobs in Galway is especially high due to the cluster of multinationals there such as Cisco, 
SAP and Fidelity Investments, Dennehy said.
There's a strong demand among start-ups for people with the software language Python, with 370 vacancies in that 
area, said Dennehy. Some of the most sought-after professionals in Ireland are QA and test engineers - who run 
tests and checks on software.
Load-Date: November 10, 2014
End of Document
Banks have simply become too big and complex to grasp
Banks have simply become too big and complex to grasp
Financial Times (London, England)
November 8, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: INSIDE LONDON; Pg. 21
Length: 703 words
Byline: Neil Collins
Body
This week's announcement from HSBC covered 32 pages - positively skinny when set against August's half-time 
report. That ran to 293 pages, but then the latest one was merely an interim management statement, a snapshot of 
trading in the arid wastes between actual trading statements. So how is it going for Britain's biggest bank? Not that 
well, judged by the headline pre-tax profit of $4.6bn, which was an eighth below outside estimates. But rather 
swimmingly, judging by adjusted pre-tax profit of $6.6bn, which was roughly the same distance ahead.
Which is the "underlying" profit figure, and which merely lying? Who knows? Disclosure on this scale, even the 32-
page mini, in effect robs the numbers of their meaning. More compensation here, a new threat of fines there, a 
writeback of some provisions, and the numbers can be tortured to confess to almost anything.
The professionals struggle to see what is going on, while the rest of us have no hope. We were grateful for Terry 
Smith 's simplified Lloyds Banking Group balance sheet in the FT last Saturday , just three lines to demonstrate 
how high-risk these businesses really are. Thirty years ago as a bank analyst, he could deconstruct their balance 
sheets with confidence - something he says is not possible today.
The top executives pretend they understand, but they do not. These institutions are simply too big and complex for 
the brain to grasp, as chief executive Stuart Gulliver in effect admitted as he abandoned his cost efficiency target. 
At HSBC's UK rival, Standard Chartered, Peter Sands has found that even after seven years as CEO, he could not 
see what was coming.
Banks have simply become too big and complex to grasp
The regulators are doing their best, with the ECB stress tests and Bank of England leverage ratio designed to force 
better behaviour than in the past. Alas, it is like training tigers to be vegetarian. Whatever the CEO tells them, 
bankers will find ways to game the system at the expense of customers and shareholders, and complexity is their 
camouflage stripes. The solution is the same as it has been since the crisis began: break the banks into businesses 
simple enough for managements to understand, and small enough to fail without bringing the house down. Until 
then, expect many more 293-page statements, and no three-line balance sheets.
Clip that hedge 
Why do airlines hedge their fuel costs? Almost all of them do it, and this week Ryanair, the smartest of the lot, 
announced it had bought 90 per cent of its expected needs until 2016 at an equivalent $93 a barrel.
This may look quite clever if the crude price dances away next year, but so far it has merely locked in a 10 per cent 
loss on the cost of the company's most important raw material. The pat answer is that hedging reduces uncertainty, 
allowing better forecasting, although Ryanair issued its third reverse profit warning of 2014 after the business had a 
better summer than it had expected.
Hedging costs money, since there is never a perfect match between forward contracts and actual fuel use, and 
those poor market traders have to make a living. It is hard to disagree with the conclusion of a study eight years ago 
by Peter Morrell at Cranfield University: "Hedging may be a zero-cost signal to investors that management is 
technically alert. Perhaps this is the most compelling argument for airline hedging. However, it lies more in the 
realm of the psychology of markets than the mathematics."
If it costs nothing . . . 
There is no such thing as free banking, and no such thing as a free email account, but if you are not paying, it feels 
that way. Providing you keep your current account in credit, there is little incentive to switch. This hidden subsidy 
has driven sneaky behaviour by the banks , but the idea that without it they will behave better is as laughable as the 
Competition and Markets Authority forcing consumers to pay for something that currently costs nothing.
Without such a diktat, the first bank to scrap free-in-credit current accounts would see a stampede for the exit by 
their core customers. Alex Chisholm , the CMA's boss, grumbles that too few people change their bank account, but 
recent changes make that pretty simple. He should be careful what he wishes for.
 
Load-Date: November 7, 2014
End of Document
British Airways owner flags 1st Dividend BA Dividend
British Airways owner flags 1st Dividend; BA Dividend
Business World (Digest)
November 7, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 337 words
Highlight: British Airways owner IAG laid out plans to pay a maiden dividend, coming of age three years after it 
was created in a merger between BA and Spain's Iberia.
Body
British Airways owner IAG laid out plans to pay a maiden dividend, coming of age three years after it was created in 
a merger between BA and Spain's Iberia.
International Airlines Group said it was confident of increasing profit by more than 10 percent a year between 2016 
and 2020, on top of significant growth this year and next. As a result it said it anticipated announcing next year that 
it would start paying shareholders.
"We remain confident in meeting our 2015 financial targets which we see as the trigger to introducing a dividend," it 
said in a statement ahead of an investor day on Friday.
BA and Iberia sealed an dollar 8 billion merger in 2011, a move which helped both stem huge losses following the 
worst industry downturn in decades. Years of tough restructuring followed - with thousands of job cuts and salary 
and capacity reductions. Before the 2011 tie-up, neither BA nor Iberia had paid a dividend since 2008. The dividend 
due to be introduced next year would be based on a payout ratio of 25 percent of the company's underlying profit 
after tax, IAG said. The restructuring plus the introduction of new, more fuel efficient planes has put IAG on a strong 
footing, leaving its European rivals fighting to keep up in the face of competition from short-haul budget airlines and 
long-haul Gulf carriers. It has outperformed Air France-KLM and Lufthansa , which have a history of stormy 
relations with their powerful unions and have been hit by strikes. Also helping IAG's profits are the healthier 
economic growth in the British and U.S. economies - to which it has more exposure due to its strong trans-Atlantic 
business - compared with the French and German economies on which the rival airlines are more reliant. And while 
Lufthansa and Air France try to expand their discount operations and reduce costs to compete with budget carriers 
like Ryanair and easyJet, IAG has already been benefiting from its acquisition of Spanish no-frills airline Vueling in 
2013. (Reuters) For more visit www.businessworld.ie
British Airways owner flags 1st Dividend BA Dividend
Load-Date: November 11, 2014
End of Document
Unit costs will be key to Ryanair 's success
Unit costs will be key to Ryanair's success
Financial Times (London, England)
November 5, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 12
Length: 157 words
Body
Sir, Lex will have to dig deeper to understand why Ryanair is posting record profits while its competitors struggle (" 
Ryanair: short-haul jungle ", November 4).
For sure, the front end of the business model has been overhauled to present a more customer-friendly proposition, 
but airlines are first and foremost capital intensive.
The secret to the company's current and future success lies in unit costs. While "New Ryanair" has been rolled out 
since the autumn of 2013 there are three strategic cornerstones that matter most: first, securing 180 end-of-line 
Boeing 737s at attractive prices; second, striking a scaling deal at Stansted airport which facilitates multiyear low-
cost passenger volume growth; and third, inking a contract for 200 new generation Boeing MAX aircraft that will 
lower per-passenger costs by about 10 per cent after 2018.
Joe Gill
Director of Corporate Broking, Capital Markets,
Goodbody, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, Ireland
Load-Date: November 4, 2014
Unit costs will be key to Ryanair 's success
End of Document
Ryanair October passenger traffic increases
Ryanair October passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 5, 2014 Wednesday 7:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 102 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of October 2014 was 8.4 million 
passengers, an increase of 5%, compared to eight million passengers for October 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of October 2014 was 89%, an increase of six percentage points, compared to 83% for 
October 2013. Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to 8.4m 
customers in October, while our load factor rose by 6% points to 89%, thanks to our lower fares, our stronger 
forward booking strategy and our improving customer experience, including our great new website and mobile app, 
allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and PED use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so much 
more than the lowest fares in every market we operate in."
Load-Date: November 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair reports higher Q2 profit, raises guidance for 2014
Ryanair reports higher Q2 profit, raises guidance for 2014
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 5, 2014 Wednesday 10:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 170 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings plc has reported that profit attributable to equity holders of parent for the second 
quarter ended September 30, 2014 was E598.2 million, or 43.09 cents per diluted share, compared to E523.8 
million, or 36.64 per diluted share, for the same quarter ended September 30, 2013. For 2014, the company 
expects net profit to be in the range of E750 million to E770 million, compared to previous guidance of E650 million.
Body
Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the second quarter ended September 30, 2014 were E2.04 
billion, compared to E1.91 billion for the same quarter ended September 30, 2013. Profit attributable to equity 
holders of parent for the six months ended September 30, 2014 was E795 million, or 57.29 cents per diluted share, 
compared to E601.9 million, or 41.85 per diluted share, for the same period ended September 30, 2013. Total 
operating revenues from continuing operations for the six months ended September 30, 2014 were E3.54 billion, 
compared to E3.25 billion for the same period ended September 30, 2013. Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary, said: 
"We are pleased to report this significant increase in H1 profits. While partially due to the presence of Easter in Q1 
and a weak prior year comparable, we have also enjoyed a strong summer thanks to our strategy (announced Sept. 
2013), of raising forward bookings and improving our customer experience which has delivered higher load factors 
and yields."
Load-Date: November 11, 2014
End of Document
FTSE dragged down by HSBC and utilities In association with CITYDASHBOARD ; LONDON REPORT
FTSE dragged down by HSBC and utilities; In association with 
CITYDASHBOARD ; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
November 4, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 23
Length: 395 words
Body
BRITAIN'S top equity index broke a four-day rise yesterday as a drop in major utility stocks and in global banking 
group HSBC dragged the UK stock market lower.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index closed down by 0.9 per cent at 6,487.97 points. Last week, it had extended a 
rebound off 15-month lows reached in October.
Utility stocks dominated the list of the FTSE's worst performers.
British Gas owner Centrica fell 2.3 per cent. United Utilities declined by 2.1 per cent, SSE fell 2 per cent while 
Severn Trent fell 1.6 percent.
Traders said the sector had been hit by a note from Investec, which started its coverage of United Utilities and 
Severn Trent with a "sell" rating.
They added that utilities had fallen out of favour as a result of last week's stock market rebound, which led investors 
to prefer sectors that tend to outperform in a rising market, such as banks, over more defensive plays such as utility 
stocks.
"I'm still a fan of the utility stocks due to their chunky dividend yields, but I wouldn't buy them at current levels," 
Berkeley Futures associate director Richard Griffiths said.
HSBC shares fell 1.8 per cent to 627.90p after the bank missed expectations with a 12 per cent drop in underlying 
third-quarter earnings. It also set aside $378m to cover a potential settlement with a British regulator for alleged 
manipulation of currency markets.
FTSE dragged down by HSBC and utilities In association with CITYDASHBOARD ; LONDON REPORT
"The results are OK, but I wouldn't want to buy them at these levels. I'd rather buy HSBC shares around the 600 
pence level. There are still too many ongoing regulatory issues with them," Beaufort Securities sales trader Basil 
Petrides said.
Among stocks outperforming the weaker overall market were budget airline EasyJet, which rose 2.7 per cent after 
rival Ryanair raised its profit forecast, while traders cited ongoing bid speculation as causing a 10.3 per cent jump in 
the shares of online grocer Ocado.
Meanwhile European shares slipped from a four-week high yesterday, with disappointing data from Europe and the 
United States hurting sentiment and gas transport group Snam leading the utilities sector down following a 
regulatory setback.
The European utilities index fell 2.3 per cent, the top sectoral decliner, hit by an 11.3 per cent drop in Snam after a 
regulator ruling that cut the remuneration rate for the gas storage business in 2015. Enel and Terna fell 4.2 per cent 
and 6.7 per cent respectively.
Load-Date: November 4, 2014
End of Document
Michael O'Leary: Four lessons for business leaders; OFFICEPOLITICS ; Ryanair's boss proves that plain 
speaking needn't hold you back, says Harriet Green
Michael O'Leary: Four lessons for business leaders; OFFICEPOLITICS ; 
Ryanair's boss proves that plain speaking needn't hold you back, says 
Harriet Green
City A.M.
November 4, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 27
Length: 597 words
Body
RYANAIR, the no frills budget airline, known for its hardheaded attitude to customer service, raised its profit 
forecast yesterday, after its half-year profits rose by a third. The news followed a profit warning a year ago, when 
guidance was slashed. Consistently low fares and trimming overheads meant a strong summer for the company, 
but chief executive Michael O'Leary said being "nicer" to customers also played a part. O'Leary, who took on the 
top position back in 1994, has always been known for his abrasive attitude - he once called Ryanair customers 
idiots. 
But in light of yesterday's results, what can you learn from O'Leary's unusual leadership style? GIVE CUSTOMERS 
WHAT THEY WANT O'Leary has maintained that what really matters to customers is a good deal - and you can 
never be too honest. In October 2013, he took to the Twittersphere and said: "we're not interested in being your 
friend. We want your money and we want your bum on our seat." This Marmite approach to customers doesn't 
seem to have dented the firm's fortunes - revenues rose from (EURO)231m (£181m) in 1998 to (EURO)4.3bn in 
2012, for instance - and O'Leary has been adamant as to why that is. "The undisputed proof of the 30 years of 
Ryanair's success has been that, when you put a lower fare up against every other service enhancement known to 
man, the lower fare wins."
CHANGE TACK - LOUDLY Whether you find his upfront attitude refreshing or ridiculous, no-one could accuse 
O'Leary of skirting round a topic - he gets straight to it. Cost-cutting served the business well for years, but the 
quarterly loss at the end of 2013 prompted a rethink. Speaking yesterday, he abruptly detailed the firm's touchy 
feely volte face: "we've been listening to our customers in the last 12 months… I think this being nicer to [them] is 
really a new and winning strategy for me and Ryanair."NO SUCH THING AS BAD PUBLICITY While some of 
Michael O'Leary: Four lessons for business leaders; OFFICEPOLITICS ; Ryanair's boss proves that plain 
speaking needn't hold you back, says Harriet Green
O'Leary's statements have shocked, he has shown an uncanny ability to use his public persona to advance 
Ryanair's brand. In 2009, O'Leary told the BBC that "one thing we have looked at in the past, and are looking at 
again, is the possibility of maybe putting a coin slot on the toilet door, so that people might actually have to spend a 
pound to spend a penny in future." The subsequent outcry did little to dent the airline's reputation for providing a 
truly no frills service. And when Ryanair announced in August that it would offer a "business class" service, it 
arguably didn't need to rely on an expensive advertising campaign to get the word out. The apparent irony was 
probably enough.
DON'T TRY TO BE A ONE OFF Yet despite the humour of O'Leary's interventions (the comedian David Mitchell is 
one of his many fans), the Irishman is still a business one-off, and his approach is unlikely to work in less colourful 
companies. Defying all conventional wisdom on good leadership, for example, he once said that "I'm paid about 20 
times more than the average Ryanair employee, and I think that gap should be wider". Not a wise thing to say in 
banking, perhaps.
Hassle-free presentations SlideShare Free If you deliver presentations at work, SlideShare will prove a great help. 
An award-winning app, designed with sales professionals in mind, it enables you to deliver your firm's message 
easily and consistently. Accessing a presentation across multiple devices, and remotely, you can import from seven 
different cloud storage providers, in addition to getting hold of anything in PowerPoint. You can also edit and 
annotate slides, and share presentations with colleagues.
Graphic
 
Michael O'Leary has held the reins at Ryanair for two decades
Load-Date: November 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair : short-haul jungle
Ryanair: short-haul jungle
Financial Times (London, England)
November 4, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 335 words
Body
Legend has it that Fay Wray was promised she would play opposite the tallest leading man in Hollywood. And so 
she did - King Kong. He revealed a tender side to her anyway. Once upon a time, Ryanair's chief executive Michael 
O'Leary also swatted away the large airlines around him while roaring his disdain for customer service.
No more. Mr O'Leary has started to show his friendlier side, and the change of approach seems to be working. 
Yesterday's half-year report pushed Ryanair's shares up 8 per cent. The company upgraded its full-year profit 
outlook to between EUR750m and EUR770m, from EUR650m.
Ryanair is optimistic, despite capacity rising in its European short-haul market. The company expects its load factor 
(seats filled as a proportion of those available) to reach 90 per cent in the next 18 months, up 4 percentage points 
from this year. Goldman Sachs thinks European short-haul capacity will expand by 6 per cent in 2016, on demand 
growth of 4 per cent. Already, easyJet has expanded its position at Gatwick by acquiring more take-off and landing 
slots . Ryanair has looked elsewhere for growth, such as adding traffic to its London-Scotland routes by cutting 
prices up to 50 per cent.
Ryanair would be helped by any improvement in the European economy, and the company is well hedged on fuel 
costs. But Ryanair's big priority is to grab and hold on to customers. Its annual capital spending will grow by half (to 
more than EUR1bn) over the next two years as its fleet expands. By 2024 its fleet will nearly double in size. Ryanair 
has the financial strength to expand. Citi expects the company to generate an average of EUR500m in free cash 
flow (after capital spending) this fiscal year and next.
Ryanair : short-haul jungle
Adding smiles to miles will cost more money, though. Marketing spend has increased a fifth year on year as the 
company tries to explain its new friendly approach. Mr O'Leary has beaten his chest before to defend what he 
loves. But in the short-haul jungle, there is always more to be done to keep up.
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
Being nice to passengers pays for Ryanair Travel & leisure
Being nice to passengers pays for Ryanair; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
November 4, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 619 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: Budget airline lifts profit guidance 20% and credits customer service upgrade
Body
Ryanair has lifted its full-year profit guidance by up to 20 per cent, saying an overhaul of its strategy and a new 
policy of being nicer to customers had started to pay off.
Europe's largest budget airline said net profit for its 2014-15 year would be between EUR750m and EUR770m 
(£602m), up from EUR620m-EUR650m, as it reported results for the half year to September 30. The shares rose 8 
per cent to EUR8.18.
Ryanair has raised its profit guidance three times this year. It has been rapidly changing its business after two profit 
warnings and its first earnings decline for five years in 2013-14.
It staged an about-turn on its heavily criticised approach to customer service and copied the lead of rival easyJet - 
developing a more user-friendly website, dropping reviled measures such as hefty charges for printing boarding 
cards, and launching offerings for business travellers and families.
Michael O'Leary , chief executive, said Ryanair had spent the past 12 months significantly improving its customer 
experience and that its digital rollout was "working like a dream".
He added: "If I'd known being nicer to customers was going to work so well I would have started many years ago."
Being nice to passengers pays for Ryanair Travel & leisure
Bookings for the second half of the year were strong, up about mid-single digits on last year, while fuller aircraft 
helped drive profitability, with load factors up 4 percentage points to 89 per cent. Passenger numbers rose 4 per 
cent to 51.3m in the first half. Mr O'Leary warned against irrational exuberance amid a difficult economic 
environment.
Despite Ryanair's results having been helped by Easter falling within the first quarter and a weaker year in 2012-13, 
they stand in contrast with results fromLufthansa and Air France-KLM, where strikes and cost-cutting have hit 
profitability as they try to adapt to the challenge posed by low-cost carriers.
"Volume growth has been absorbed and load factors are rising," said Stephen Furlong, analyst at Davy, which acts 
as broker for Ryanair. "The company is very bullish it can increase that over coming years. There has been a push 
to primary airports plus a step change in advertising and marketing, yet the cost base is going to be about flat 
excluding fuel and down including fuel."
Mr O'Leary said a revived digital offering had been crucial to Ryanair's success, as he laid out plans to become a 
broader travel resource, offering real-time comparison of competitors' fares with the help of Ryanair Labs, which 
developed its website and mobile app.
"We're working with partners and using Ryanair Labs to develop user forums, for good, for bad; price comparison; 
all of the things people have built very creative websites around for travel - the Skyscanners, the TripAdvisors, the 
Airbnbs - we should be putting that on the Ryanair platform," Mr O'Leary said.
One analyst said: "We are all underestimating the tech being put into this brand . . . It's basic stuff but out of that big 
data will come a better understanding of who their customers are."
Ryanair, which has attracted criticism from passengers for flying to smaller airports, has been targeting expansion 
at primary hubs. It placed an $11bn order in September for 100 aircraft, to take passenger numbers to 150m a year 
by 2024. The airline took advantage of the fall in oil prices to extend its fuel hedging to 90 per cent for 2015-16 at 
about EUR93 a barrel, cutting its fuel costs by 2 per cent over the next year.
Revenue was up 9 per cent to EUR3.54bn, while operating profit was up 31 per cent to EUR933.4m. Profit before 
tax was up 32 per cent to EUR907.5m and earnings per share were up 36 per cent to 57.44 cents.
The company will return cash to shareholders in February with a EUR520m special dividend.
See Lex
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
'Sell' advice knocks RBS off three-year high as wider trading slips London
'Sell' advice knocks RBS off three-year high as wider trading slips; London
Financial Times (London, England)
November 4, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 29
Length: 485 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Profit-taking meant Royal Bank of Scotland drifted back from a three-year high yesterday.
Investec Securities advised investors to sell into strength after the bank's forecast-beating earnings last week. 
While RBS had a "bulletproof" capital position, the weak outlook for earnings and returns did not support a valuation 
equal to current-quarter tangible net asset value, Investec said.
"It is true that RBS is (by far) the top performing UK bank year-to-date," said the broker. "However, it has regularly 
offered clear (short-term) selling opportunities throughout the year and we believe that the strength of Friday's 
euphoria has just presented another one." RBS closed down 2 per cent at 380.2p.
A dull wider market left the FTSE 100 down 0.9 per cent to 6,487.97, a drop of 58.5 points.
Primark owner AB Foods lost 3 per cent to £26.71 awaiting full-year results.
"While we expect a robust set of results, we believe disappointing like-for-like growth from peers on unexpectedly 
warm weather in Europe suggests a lacklustre outlook for the fourth quarter," Merrill Lynch said.
Orthopaedics maker Smith & Nephew drifted 0.9 per cent lower to £10.48. Bernstein Research said there was a 35 
per cent chance the company would be acquired in spite of US moves to deter tax inversions. Styker and Johnson 
'Sell' advice knocks RBS off three-year high as wider trading slips London
& Johnson could make a bid work without inverting, with any takeover potentially valuing S&N at up to £14 a share, 
the broker said.
Aveva , the design software maker, lost 2.7 per cent to £14.94 on a Goldman Sachs downgrade ahead of results 
next week. Oil sector capital expenditure, accounting for 50 per cent of group sales, was in a prolonged multiyear 
slowdown and even after Aveva's September warning estimates remained at risk, Goldman said.
A profit warning from Rheinmetall, the German military technology group, weighed on defence engineers. Cobham 
slipped 1.3 per cent to 287p and Chemring lost 1.1 per cent to 241p.
Airlines led the risers after Ryanair , up 7.3 per cent to EUR8.15, raised its full-year earnings guidance to reflect 
bookings demand. EasyJet , which has traffic figures due, was up 2.7 per cent to £15.40 while British Airways 
owner IAG advanced 1.2 per cent to 414.3p.
Kaz Minerals , the slimmed-down and renamed Kazakhmys, added 3.7 per cent to 238.8p on an upgrade to 
"market perform" from BMO. Restructuring had cut Kaz's funding shortfall more than $1bn to $450m for 2016 and 
2017, BMO forecast.
Ahead of results, Glencore fell 1.5 per cent to 315p after Nomura downgraded the commodities trader and miner to 
"neutral" based on a weak outlook for coal. "Additionally, we expect the potential return for a bid for Rio Tinto will 
likely remain an overhang in the near term and could diminish the market's hopes for cash returns," the broker 
added.
A worldwide squeeze of internet stocks helped retailers, with Ocado up 10.3 per cent to 274.3p, and AO World 8.6 
per cent higher at 180.2p.
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
'Sell' advice knocks RBS off three-year high London
'Sell' advice knocks RBS off three-year high; London
Financial Times (London, England)
November 4, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 21
Length: 391 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Profit-taking meant Royal Bank of Scotland drifted back from a three-year high yesterday.
Investec Securities advised investors to sell RBS into strength following the bank's forecast-beating earnings last 
week. While RBS had a "bulletproof" capital position, the weak outlook for earnings and returns did not support a 
valuation equal to current-quarter tangible net asset value, Investec said. RBS closed 2 per cent lower at 380.2p.
A dull wider market left the FTSE 100 down 0.9 per cent to 6,487.97, a drop of 58.5 points.
Primark owner AB Foods lost 3 per cent to £26.71 awaiting full-year results.
Orthopaedics maker Smith & Nephew drifted 0.9 per cent lower to £10.48. Bernstein Research put a 35 per cent 
chance on the company being acquired in spite of US moves to deter tax inversions. Styker and Johnson & 
Johnson could make a bid work even without inverting, with any takeover potentially valuing S&N at up to £14 a 
share, the broker said.
Aveva , the design software maker, lost 2.7 per cent to £14.94 on a Goldman Sachs downgrade ahead of results 
next week. Oil sector capital expenditure, which accounts for 50 per cent of group sales, was in a prolonged 
multiyear slowdown and even after Aveva's September warning estimates remained at risk, Goldman said.
'Sell' advice knocks RBS off three-year high London
A profit warning from Rheinmetall, the German military technology group, weighed on defence engineers. Cobham 
slipped 1.3 per cent to 287p and Chemring lost 1.1 per cent to 241p.
Airlines led the risers after Ryanair , up 7.3 per cent to EUR8.15, raised its full-year earnings guidance to reflect 
bookings demand. EasyJet , which has traffic figures due, was up 2.7 per cent to £15.40 while British Airways 
owner IAG advanced 1.2 per cent to 414.3p.
Kaz Minerals , the slimmed-down and renamed Kazakhmys, added 3.7 per cent to 238.8p on an upgrade to 
"market perform" from BMO. Restructuring had cut Kaz's funding shortfall more than $1bn to $450m for 2016 and 
2017, BMO forecast.
Ahead of results, Glencore drifted 1.5 per cent lower to 315p after Nomura downgraded the commodities trader 
and miner to "neutral" based on a weak outlook for coal.
A worldwide squeeze of internet stocks helped retailers, with Ocado up 10.3 per cent to 274.3p, and AO World 8.6 
per cent higher at 180.2p. Nearly 12 per cent of Ocado's free float and 9.5 per cent of AO World's are lent to short 
sellers.
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
Being nice pays off for Ryanair as profit soars by 32 per cent
Being nice pays off for Ryanair as profit soars by 32 per cent
City A.M.
November 4, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 193 words
Byline: KATE McCANN
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair is finding that being nice really does pay off, after it revealed its half-year net profit rose a 
whopping 32 per cent to (EURO)795m (£621.6m) The company embarked on a customer service overhaul about a 
year ago, when chief executive Michael O'Leary vowed to stop "unnecessarily pissing people off".
Since then the business has launched new family and business friendly fares, slashed penalty charges and boosted 
its marketing budget.
The strategy has paid off, Ryanair announced yesterday, with an additional 2m seats sold in the six month period to 
March and ticket fares up by five per cent.
"If I had known being nice to customers would work so well I would have started many years ago," O'Leary said 
yesterday, adding: "As the word gets out that Ryanair is changing, that it's not cheap and nasty ... that gives us a lot 
of positive momentum."
A strong Easter period helped boost bums on seats on Ryanair planes by four per cent to 89 per cent over the 
period, while passenger numbers also increased by four per cent to 51.3m. The airline opened 57 new routes over 
the last six months and added four new bases to its current schedule.
Load-Date: November 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair raises outlook, soars to record high
Ryanair raises outlook, soars to record high
Associated Press Financial Wire
November 3, 2014 Monday 6:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 480 words
Byline: SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Ryanair sharply raised its profit outlook on the back of surprisingly strong first-half profits, sending 
shares in Europe's biggest budget airline to a record high.
The airline said Monday that its net profit for the peak April-September period rose 32 percent to 795 million euros 
($994 million), about 100 million euros better than market expectations.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said Ryanair would aggressively expand services during the traditionally loss-
making, low-demand winter months to attract an extra 2 million passengers, taking the annual total to 89 million, 
nearly 8 million better than the year before.
And he raised Ryanair's forecast net profit for the full fiscal year ending March to a range of 750 million to 770 
million euros ($938 million to $963 million). The airline previously boosted its profits outlook to 650 million euros 
only six weeks ago.
At one point Ryanair shares had surged 10 percent to a record 8.36 euros. By the close on the Irish Stock 
Exchange, they were trading at 8.19 euros, up 7.7 percent on the day.
Ryanair's equity has enjoyed a steady ascent this year as the airline introduced new products and service 
improvements designed to remove many of the inflexible, irritating and punitive elements of its previous no-frills 
model.
It's now much less common to see angry customers bickering with staff at check-in desks. Passengers now receive 
seat assignments for free, can carry two small bags on board without rigorous assessment for weight-violation fees, 
and can buy pricier business-class tickets that offer a free checked bag, fast-track security clearance and free 
rescheduling of flights. Its Web site navigation has dramatically improved, and Ryanair has resumed cooperation 
with travel agents after a decade-long boycott.
On the downside, the airline still features some of the industry's most cramped seating and no baggage transfers 
between connecting flights.
Ryanair raises outlook, soars to record high
"By keeping fares low and being nicer to our customers, more and more are flying with Ryanair," said O'Leary, who 
has softened his previously braggadocio, confrontational persona. "It's a newfound experience, I must admit, for 
me. But if it works this well, I wish I'd been nicer to our customers much earlier."
Average fares rose 5 percent to 54 euros ($67.50) as load factor - the industry measure of seats sold per flight - 
rose above 90 percent this summer for the first time.
O'Leary said Ryanair aimed to carry 150 million passengers by 2024, up from his previous target of 120 million. He 
said continued fast growth would be driven by opening new routes and hubs using up to 380 new Boeing aircraft 
already ordered for delivery over the coming decade.
Ryanair, founded in 1985 when it operated a single Ireland-England route, today connects 30 countries across 
Europe and Morocco and is mulling an eastward expansion into the Middle East and Russia.
Load-Date: November 4, 2014
End of Document
Airlines boost Britain 's FTSE FTSE
Airlines boost Britain's FTSE; FTSE
Business World (Digest)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 335 words
Highlight: Britain's top share index received strong support from airlines on Monday after Irish peer Ryanair lifted 
its profit forecast, though gains were limited by weakness in HSBC and miners.
Body
Britain's top share index received strong support from airlines on Monday after Irish peer Ryanair lifted its profit 
forecast, though gains were limited by weakness in HSBC and miners.
Airline operators easyJet and International Airline Group, which owns British Airways, rose 3 percent and 1.6 
percent respectively after the update from Ryanair.
The FTSE 100 edged up 3.25 points, or 0.1 percent, to 6,549.72 by 0836 GMT, holding its ground after strong gains 
last week on the Bank of Japan's unexpected boost of its monetary stimulus programme.
The FTSE 350 travel and leisure sector rose 0.8 percent, the top sectoral gainer, and is up 13.2 percent since Oct 
16. The sector hit its lowest level for a year in October, with sentiment knocked by worries over whether the spread 
of Ebola and unrest in the Middle East could severely limit travel. However, Ryanair's figures came a week after 
IAG increased it profit guidance, lifting sentiment. "There's plenty of positive momentum in the airline sector, and it's 
a solid set of numbers that is being well received by the market," Atif Latif, director of trading at Guardian 
Stockbrokers, said. "We have seen sector weakness and volatility over the last few weeks led by geopolitical 
concerns and Ebola headlines ... but we do see a move higher in capacity trends." Early gains were curtailed after 
HSBC gave its latest corporate update at 0815 GMT, shortly after the market opened. Europe's biggest bank fell 2 
percent, wiping over nine points off the index, after reporting a 12 percent fall in underlying earnings after costs 
rose. The Asia-focused bank also set aside dollar 378 million to pay a potential fine from the UK regulator for 
alleged manipulation of currency markets. The banking sector dipped 0.5 percent, partly retracing a 2.9 percent 
surge on Friday, made after the Bank of England's new regulations for the sector were less strict than expected and 
as investors welcomed new policy action in Japan. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Airlines boost Britain 's FTSE FTSE
Load-Date: November 5, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair hikes profit forecast Airlines
Ryanair hikes profit forecast; Airlines
Business World (Digest)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 420 words
Highlight: Ryanair hiked its annual profit forecast almost 20 percent on Monday on a surge in winter bookings and 
said it would slash fares by up to 10 percent in the new year to steal more market share from struggling higher-cost 
rivals.
Body
Ryanair hiked its annual profit forecast almost 20 percent on Monday on a surge in winter bookings and said it 
would slash fares by up to 10 percent in the new year to steal more market share from struggling higher-cost rivals.
The improved guidance comes after Europe's largest low-cost carrier introduced a series of customer service 
improvements and offered a new business fare with free checked-in baggage and the ability to make flight changes.
It now predicts profit after tax for the year to March at between 750 million euros and 770 million euros, up from a 
previous forecast of 620 million to 650 million euros and well ahead of an average forecast of 694 million euros in a 
company poll of analysts.
"We've had a bumper half year and we've had to boost our guidance as we got visibility on the second half of the 
year," Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said in an interview. "We are keeping prices low while improving the 
service. Its as simple as that." Higher-cost rivals Lufthansa and Air France have both lowered their profit forecasts 
in recent days on higher competition and the cost of industrial action. The sale of 2 million more tickets than 
planned over the winter will consolidate the Irish airline's position as Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers 
- boosting annual numbers to an estimated 89 million, up 8.5 percent over the previous year. "The market was 
looking for a revision, but this is pushing it to the upper end of expectations," said Mark Simpson, an analyst with 
Irish brokerage Goodbody. "They are using the strength of the first half to really grab market share in the second 
half." Ryanair plans to boost its market share by cutting fares by up to 5 percent in the three months to December 
and by up to 10 percent in the first three months of next year. Profit after tax for the six months to September, the 
first half of Ryanair's financial year, was 795 million euros, just below an average forecast of 799 million euros in a 
company poll. Traffic grew 4 percent in the first half and average fares were up 5 percent. The airline said it had 
attempted to lock in recent falls in the price of oil, hedging 90 percent of its fuel needs for the year to March 2016 at 
Ryanair hikes profit forecast Airlines
around dollar 93 per barrel and would try to extend that further in the coming months. Before Monday's results, 
Ryanair's share price was up almost 25 percent in the past year compared to an increase of just 3.4 percent in the 
Thomson Reuters Europe Airlines Index. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 5, 2014
End of Document
"Nice" Ryanair approach is paying off Ryanair Profits
"Nice" Ryanair approach is paying off; Ryanair Profits
Business World (Digest)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 648 words
Highlight: Ryanair raised its annual profit forecast almost 20pc today thanks to a surge in winter bookings as the 
budget airline pioneer said improvements to its much criticised customer service were paying off.
Body
Ryanair raised its annual profit forecast almost 20pc today thanks to a surge in winter bookings as the budget 
airline pioneer said improvements to its much criticised customer service were paying off.
The Irish airline built its business on the back of low fares combined with austere service but shifted strategy when it 
became apparent that its growth had stalled as customers were tiring of its charmless approach.
Since a pledge last year by outspoken Chief Executive Michael O'Leary to stop "unnecessarily pissing people off," 
Ryanair has slashed penalty charges, overhauled its web site, tripled its marketing budget and launched business 
class fares.
That has helped the airline to boost ticket fares by 5 percent in the six months to September and is set to help it sell 
2 million more seats than originally planned in the six months to March, O'Leary said. "As the word gets out that 
Ryanair is changing, that it's not cheap and nasty ... that gives us a lot of positive momentum," O'Leary told a 
conference call with investors. "If I had known being nice to customers would work so well I would have started 
many years ago," joked O'Leary, who is rationing his media appearances after being closely identified with the 
airline's spartan style. The improved focus on service by Ryanair and budget rival easyJet has increased the 
pressure on higher cost European airlines Lufthansa and Air France-KLM . Ryanair, Europe's largest airline by 
passenger numbers, forecast its profit after tax would be between 750 million euros and 770 million euros in the 
year to March 2015. That was up from a previous forecast of 620 million to 650 million euros and well ahead of an 
average forecast of 694 million euros (dollar 867 million) in a company poll of analysts. By contrast, Lufthansa and 
Air France-KLM have both lowered their profit forecasts in recent days, hit by the combined effects of increased 
competition and the cost of industrial action. "The market was looking for a revision, but this is pushing it to the 
upper end of expectations," said Mark Simpson, an analyst with Irish brokerage Goodbody. "They are using the 
strength of the first half to really grab market share in the second half." Ryanair shares climbed 9 percent to 8.28 
"Nice" Ryanair approach is paying off Ryanair Profits
euros, up 36 percent in the past 12 months. Rival easyJet was up 2.3 percent by 1155 GMT. In addition to 
improved service, Ryanair plans to use its sheer scale to gain market share during the traditionally weak winter 
season. The airline bumped up its forecast for winter passenger growth by 2.2 million, to increase its full-year 
passenger numbers to 89 million, up 8.5 percent on last year. It will cut fares by up to 5 percent in the last three 
months of the year and by up to 10 percent in the three months to March to build momentum on new routes. A new 
business class fare unveiled over the summer, which gives passengers a number of perks for an extra 50 euros, 
should help boost winter demand and make the business less dependent on summer holidaymakers, O'Leary said. 
Fleet expansion is focused on high frequency flights to primary airports used by business travelers rather than the 
cheaper regional airports that dominated Ryanair's network in the past. Profit after tax for the six months to 
September, the first half of Ryanair's financial year, was up 32 percent to 795 million euros, just below an average 
forecast of 799 million euros in a company poll. A significant factor in the improvement was a change of policy to 
sell more tickets earlier, a policy which has reduced the number of empty seats on planes and increased last minute 
fares, O'Leary said. The airline said it had attempted to lock in recent falls in the price of oil, hedging 90 percent of 
its fuel needs for the year to March 2016 at around dollar 93 per barrel and would try to extend that further in the 
coming months. For more visit www.businessworld.ie.
Load-Date: November 6, 2014
End of Document
UK Market Marginally Lower, Airlines Upbeat
UK Market Marginally Lower, Airlines Upbeat
RTT News (United States)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 538 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market is losing marginally, after Eurozone's manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index rose 
slightly less than initially estimated in October.
Final data from Markit Economics showed the final PMI rose to 50.6 in October from September's 14-month low of 
50.3. The flash score was 50.7.
Separate data showed that U.K. manufacturing sector growth quickened more than expected in October to its 
fastest pace in three months. The seasonally adjusted Markit/CIPS manufacturing PMI rose to a three month high 
of 53.2 in October from the seventeen month low of 51.5 in September. Economists had expected the index to 
come in at 51.5.
Germany's manufacturing sector returned to growth zone in October. The Markit/BME PMI rose to 51.4 in October 
from a 15-month low of 49.9 in September. Nonetheless, the score was slightly below the flash estimate of 51.8.
The French manufacturing sector continued to contract in October but the pace of decline was slower than initially 
estimated. The headline seasonally adjusted PMI fell to 48.5 in October from 48.8 in September. The flash score for 
October was at 47.3.
Meanwhile, China's official manufacturing PMI dropped to a 5-month low of 50.8 in October, data released last 
Saturday showed, reinforcing concerns about a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy.
While growth in the services sector hit a nine-month low in October, a private gauge of manufacturing activity 
compiled by HSBC rose modestly in the month after holding steady in September.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is losing 0.50 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is falling 0.31 percent.
The FTSE 100 index is currently falling 0.11 percent.
3i Group is declining 1.8 percent, and Royal Bank of Scotland is losing 1.6 percent.
HSBC is marginally down. The lender posted increased quarterly profit, but added that discussions are in progress 
with the UK FCA regarding a proposed resolution of their foreign exchange investigation, which is likely to involve 
the payment of a significant financial penalty.
UK Market Marginally Lower, Airlines Upbeat
Ryanair surged over 10 percent after the Irish low-cost airline reported increased first-half profit, and lifted its full-
year outlook yet again. EasyJet and International Consolidated Airlines also advanced notably.
Other major markets in the region are also in the red.
The Asian stocks ended mixed as data out of China indicating a broad slowdown in the world's second-largest 
economy tempered investors' enthusiasm over Bank of Japan's decision last week to inject trillions of more yen in 
the economy.
In the U.S., futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks rallied after the Bank of 
Japan unexpectedly ramped up its stimulus measures to offset the effect of April's nationwide sales tax hike.
The Dow climbed 1.1 percent and the S&P 500 jumped 1.2 percent to record closing highs, while the tech-heavy 
Nasdaq rallied 1.4 percent to reach its best closing level since 2000.
Crude for December delivery is losing $0.25 to $80.29 per barrel, while gold is falling $2.7 to $1168.9 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair H1 Profit Climbs, Lifts FY Profit View - Quick Facts
Ryanair H1 Profit Climbs, Lifts FY Profit View - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 214 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Monday that its first-half net 
profit climbed 32 percent to 795 million euros from last year's 602 million euros. Basic earnings per share grew 36 
percent to 57.44 euro cents from 42.04 euro cents a year ago.
Total revenues rose 9 percent to 3.537 billion euros from 3.255 billion euros a year ago.
Passenger traffic increased 4 percent to 51.3 million customers from 49.2 million customers a year earlier.
First-half load factors jumped 4 percent points to 89 percent, due to a stronger Easter period and the success of 
Ryanair's "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvements, the company noted.
Looking ahead, the company said that as a result of 2.2 million additional second half passengers and falling unit 
costs, full-year net profit will significantly exceed previous guidance of 650 million euros to a new range of between 
750 million euros to 770 million euros.
"However, we caution that this raised guidance remains heavily reliant on the strength of close in bookings for the 
remainder of Q3, and in particular Q4 where we presently have very little visibility," the company said.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Decline On Profit-taking
European Stocks Decline On Profit-taking
RTT News (United States)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 574 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European markets were lower Monday, with French stocks turning in a particularly poor performance 
amid anxiety about the global economy.
Investors booked profits from last week gains on the back of the Bank of Japan's increased stimulus.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks dropped 1 percent, and is down 0.86 percent year-to-date. 
The German DAX lost 0.81 percent, the French CAC 40 slipped 0.92 percent and the FTSE 100 index of the U.K. 
fell 0.89 percent.
In Paris, Publicis Groupe lost 2.2 percent. The advertising group reported a definitive agreement to acquire US-
based technology consulting company Sapient Corp. for $3.7 billion in cash.
Meanwhile, Technip gained 1 percent. The oilfield services provider received a contract from South Africa-based 
Sasol Limited to provide engineering and procurement for eight proprietary Ultra Selective Conversion furnaces.
HSBC fell 1.8 percent. The lender posted increased quarterly profit, but added that discussions are in progress with 
the UK FCA regarding a proposed resolution of their foreign exchange investigation, which is likely to involve the 
payment of a significant financial penalty.
Ryanair rose 7.6 percent after the Irish low-cost airline reported increased first-half profit, and lifted its full-year 
outlook yet again. EasyJet and International Consolidated Airlines also advanced notably.
Holcim fell 2.6 percent in Zurich. The cement maker posted third-quarter net income and revenue that missed 
analysts' projections.
France-based cable and telecommunications provider Altice SA, which trades on Amsterdam, announced that it has 
made a binding, fully financed offer to purchase the Portuguese assets of Portugal Telecom from Brazilian wireless 
carrier Oi S.A.
Altice was down 1.2 percent and Portugal Telecom, listed on the Euronext Lisbon Stock Exchange, added 7.3 
percent.
In economic news, the eurozone's manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index rose slightly less than initially 
estimated in October.
European Stocks Decline On Profit-taking
Final data from Markit Economics showed the final PMI rose to 50.6 in October from September's 14-month low of 
50.3. The flash score was 50.7.
Separate data showed that Germany's manufacturing sector returned to growth zone in October. The Markit/BME 
PMI rose to 51.4 in October from a 15-month low of 49.9 in September. Nonetheless, the score was slightly below 
the flash estimate of 51.8.
The French manufacturing sector continued to contract in October but the pace of decline was slower than initially 
estimated. The headline seasonally adjusted PMI fell to 48.5 in October from 48.8 in September. The flash score for 
October was at 47.3.
U.K. manufacturing sector growth quickened more than expected in October to its fastest pace in three months. The 
seasonally adjusted Markit/CIPS manufacturing PMI rose to a three month high of 53.2 in October from the 
seventeen month low of 51.5 in September. Economists had expected the index to come in at 51.5.
Meanwhile, China's official manufacturing PMI dropped to a 5-month low of 50.8 in October, data released last 
Saturday showed, reinforcing concerns about a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy.
While growth in the services sector hit a nine-month low in October, a private gauge of manufacturing activity 
compiled by HSBC rose modestly in the month after holding steady in September.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair First-Half Profit Climbs, Lifts Full-year Outlook Yet Again
Ryanair First-Half Profit Climbs, Lifts Full-year Outlook Yet Again
RTT News (United States)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 466 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) Monday reported 32 percent rise in the 
first-half profit, driven by increase in average fares, as well as load factors. Total revenues were up 9 percent from 
last year.
The firm also raised its profit outlook for full year 2014. The shares rose about 9 percent in the morning trade.
In July end, while reporting its first-quarter results, Ryanair had boosted its full-year profit forecast, adding that it is 
dependent on the final outturn for second-half yields.
"However, we caution that this raised guidance remains heavily reliant on the strength of close in bookings for the 
remainder of Q3, and in particular Q4 where we presently have very little visibility," the company said.
For the first half, the company's net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent climbed to 795 million euros 
from 601.9 million euros in the previous year.
Total revenues for the period rose 9 percent to 3.54 billion euros from 3.25 billion euros a year ago. Ancillary 
revenue grew 4 percent to 741.3 million euros, in line with traffic growth.
Passenger traffic increased 4 percent to 51.3 million customers from 49.2 million customers a year earlier.
First-half load factors jumped 4 percent points to 89 percent, due to a stronger Easter period and the success of 
Ryanair's "Always Getting Better" customer experience improvements, the company noted.
Further, average fare for the first half rose 5 percent to 54 euros.
Half-year unit costs declined 2 percent from the preceding year. Excluding fuel, it rose 3 percent mainly due to 
higher landing and handling costs at primary airports, as well as increased marketing spend to support the 
company's "Always Getting Better" programme.
CEO, Michael O'Leary said, "We are pleased to report this significant increase in H1 profits. While partially due to 
the presence of Easter in Q1 and a weak prior year comparable, we have also enjoyed a strong summer..."
For the second quarter, the company posted profit attributable to equity holders of parent of 598.2 million euros, up 
from 523.8 million euros last year. Total operating revenues climbed to 2.04 billion euros from 1.91 billion euros a 
year earlier.
Ryanair First-Half Profit Climbs, Lifts Full-year Outlook Yet Again
Looking ahead, the firm said that as a result of 2.2 million additional second half passengers and falling unit costs, 
full-year net profit will significantly exceed previous guidance of 650 million euros to a new range of between 750 
million euros to 770 million euros.
The airline sees its passenger traffic to grow by 12 percent in the third quarter, and 20 percent in the fourth quarter.
RYA.L is currently trading at 8.27 pence, up 8.89 percent, on a volume of 1.38 million shares.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
Europe shares pause after sharp gains EU Markets
Europe shares pause after sharp gains; EU Markets
Business World (Digest)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 122 words
Highlight: European stocks inched lower in early trading on Monday, taking a breather following last week's sharp 
gains, while Ryanair soared after raising its profit outlook.
Body
European stocks inched lower in early trading on Monday, taking a breather following last week's sharp gains, while 
Ryanair soared after raising its profit outlook.
Shares in the low-cost airline climbed 5.9 percent after it lifted its annual profit forecast almost 20 percent on a 
surge in winter bookings and said it would slash fares by up to 10 percent in the new year to steal more market 
share from struggling higher-cost rivals.
At 0802 GMT, the FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was down 0.1 percent at 1,350.56 points. The 
benchmark index gained 1.8 percent on Friday, after the Bank of Japan surprised global financial markets by 
ramping up its massive stimulus spending. (Reuters)
For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 5, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair October traffic grows by 5pc; Ryanair PAX
Ryanair October traffic grows by 5pc; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 58 words
Highlight: Ryanair this morning said that its passenger numbers rose by 5pc to 8.4 million in October.
Body
Ryanair this morning said that its passenger numbers rose by 5pc to 8.4 million in October.
The 12 months to the end of October saw its passenger traffic rise by 4pc to 84.2 million, it said.
Its load factor, an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, increased 6pc points from 83pc to 
89pc.
For more visit www.businessworld.ie.
Load-Date: November 5, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair October Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
Ryanair October Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
November 3, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 98 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L,RYAAY) Monday said its October month traffic rose 
by 400 thousand to 8.4 million customers.Its monthly load factor improved 6 percent to 89 percent from 83 percent 
a year ago.
The company attributed the improvement, in load factor and traffic, to decrease in fares, stronger forward booking 
and its improving customer service.
Ryanair's annual traffic grew 4 percent to 84.2 million customers, the company said in a statement.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
E-tendering: Gardaí seek a van-do attitude
E-tendering: Gardaí seek a van-do attitude
Sunday Business Post
November 2, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 2105 words
Body
A sign that the public purse is opening up again is last week's tender seeking 43 van-type vehicles for An Garda 
Síochána, that need to be supplied during 2015.
Anyone pitching for this tender will have a lot of reading to do as the tender requirements, understandably, are 
extremely detailed, right down to the type of blue flashing lights required on each (white - specified) vehicle.
Thirty vans, described as 'Scene of Crime' vans are part of the requirements, as well as ten larger 'Forensic 
Collision Investigation' vans. They're also looking for just three 'Small Cell' vehicles. There's an interesting line in 
the tender whereby tenderers are 'invited' to offer a volume discount on the base vehicle in the pricing schedule and 
this discount would apply if the quantity actually ordered during the currency of the contract (and any contract 
extension) exceeds the stated estimated quantity by 50 per cent or more - which could imply that the underlying 
requirements are materially above the initial tender. The percentage offered is at the discretion of the tenderer.
Tenders for this contract close on November 26, 2014
**GB or not GB: there is no question!**
As confirmation that the economies of the two parts of this island are ever so slowly integrating, it's worth looking at 
Great Britain - as opposed to GB and Northern Ireland - as a separate tendering market.
As part of the EU, the same rules apply in Britain as they do across the island of Ireland. But, as Britain has roughly 
ten times the size of population as we have, this creates at least that multiple of tendering opportunities. And thanks 
to a little bit of history between us, they also speak English and are only a cheap Ryanair flight away. This should 
make tendering for opportunities in Britain absolutely compelling.
Tender opportunities above £10,000 in England are advertised on the Contracts Finder website 
(online.contractsfinder.businesslink.gov.uk).
E-tendering: Gardaí seek a van-do attitude
Usefully this site allows users to search specifically for    items more suitable for smaller suppliers   - a feature that 
sets it apart from the other public tendering websites. But on top of this Scotland and Wales have their own 
dedicated public sector procurement websites at Sell2Wales and Public Contracts Scotland.
The public sector, and therefore the size and number of its tenders, is very large across Britain. Their public sector 
includes:
-- All of their central government departments and agencies.
-- Non-departmental public bodies.
-- All local authorities.
-- The National Assembly for Wales.
-- The Scottish Executive.
-- The majority of the countries' universities and colleges.
-- The NHS and its local trusts - which in itself is massive.
The NHS is one of the biggest public procurers in Britain. Importantly they publish their annual 'procurement 
calendar' on their website supplychain.nhs.uk. This shows the expiry date of all current contracts and when they will 
be re-tendered. This type of advance information is invaluable for suppliers wanting to break into this market. NHS 
curreprocurement is also almost exclusively carried out online - making it very easy for suppliers in Ireland to submit 
tenders electronically.
There are five key stages to tendering for NHS contracts:
**1.**Assessing suitability, where suppliers are required to complete an Expression of Interest.
**2.**Pre-qualification questionnaire, where suppliers complete a questionnaire regarding their previous experience 
and credentials.
**3.**Invitation to tender, where suppliers prepare and submit a detailed tender document, including pricing.
**4.**Final interview and presentation, where suppliers meet the buyer in person and make a presentation about 
their tender submission.
**5.**And, finally, the contract award - all going well.
Depending on the nature and the size of the contract, NHS trusts may draw on central government contracts 
tendered by Crown Commercial Service (the central procurement body in Britain), from NHS central frameworks or 
indeed undertake procurement independently. It's important, therefore, for would-be suppliers to familiarise 
themselves with the likely process for the items that they sell to ensure that all bases are covered.
**Hugh Lane wants professional fundraiser**
Dublin City Council, for The Hugh Lane Gallery, is looking for a professional fundraiser (either an individual or a 
company) on a contract-for-services basis for three years with the option to extend for a further period of one year. 
The professional fee for this contract is EUR 80,000 per year, exclusive of Vat.
The winning tenderer will report to the director of the Hugh Lane Gallery and will work closely with the staff of the 
gallery. The successful candidate will need to demonstrate that they can develop and execute a clear, ambitious, 
and sustainable strategy of fundraising for the gallery's current and longer term development.
E-tendering: Gardaí seek a van-do attitude
He or she will have to 'frame the gallery's attraction for established national and international networks' as well as 
identify and develop long-term relationships with major donors, both corporate and individual. Tenderers will also 
need to able to identify potential new sources of funding developing networks while maintaining high levels of 
discretion and confidentiality at all time.
Even though the successful tenderer will primarily work from the gallery, only those demonstrating that they have 
the required level of financial and technical capacity will have their tender considered.
A regular requirement, repeated here, which puts many smaller enterprises off these kinds of tenders is that, for an 
EUR 80,000 tender, the winning tender is expected to have public liability insurance cover to the value of EUR 6.5 
million, as well as employer's liability of EUR 13 million - which could be strange if the winning tenderer was a self-
employed sole trader working, as stipulated, in the gallery.
Other previous tenders with these unusually high or even irrelevant insurance requirements have been challenged 
and then changed during the tendering process following queries from potential tenderers, who can always ask for 
clarifications via the online tendering website. Closing date for this tender is December 31.
**Exam time for tenderers**
Even though we are still two months away from the end of the year, others are thinking ahead to next summer's 
state exams. The State Examinations Commission has issued a tender for the confidential and secure printing of 
examination papers in respect of Leaving Certificate Examination 2015 to 2017 papers, Leaving Certificate Applied 
Examination 2015 to 2017, Junior Certificate Examination 2015 to 2017 papers and finally Contingency 
Examination Papers 2015 to 2017.
This is a highly detailed tender, where printers not alone need to demonstrate their ability to print (including 
finishing, folding, drilling, numbering and packing), but also must be able to deliver the papers under strict security 
to the State Examinations Commission in Athlone.
The length of the contract will depend on the successful delivery of the first requirement, which is for next year's 
exam papers.
Reflecting a lack of consistency regarding insurance requirements in public tendering there appears to be no 
insurance cover required, according to the tender documents, for this work. And even though this is a public sector 
tender this tender also asks tenderers to indicate clearly any discounts to which the Contracting Authority may be 
entitled, including 'public sector discounts'. The closing date is on December 11, 2014. and all details, as for all 
these tenders, can be found on etenders.gov.ie
**The sums go down on Galway Bay**
The importance of pre-registering for inclusion on what are termed frameworks is very clear for those who would 
like to pitch for work on a coastal study that Galway County Council wishes to have carried out.
Following last winter's severe weather, the Council is looking for engineering companies to tender to provide a 
detailed condition survey on its entire coastal periphery following the adverse weather events of last winter (late 
2013 and early 2014).
But it appears that only firms that are already on the framework can apply. Firms should always respond to requests 
to be added to relevant frameworks - if you're not in, you can't win. Requests for inclusion on a framework appear 
sporadically and you therefore need to keep checking the etenders website regularly.
To facilitate an efficient delivery of the coastal study, the Council has divided the Galway county coastline into six 
numbered zones. Consultants are requested to tender for study of their preferred zone, zones or all zones where no 
preference exists. Each tenderer is reminded that an individual/dedicated study team is required for each zone as 
all final reports must be delivered by the same date to Galway County Council.
E-tendering: Gardaí seek a van-do attitude
The detailed study as required for each zone shall provide an assessment of the condition of the coastline recording 
areas/sections that have already been damaged/eroded and are at risk of further erosion or those that are currently 
undamaged but vulnerable to erosion. They also want an assessment on those areas where remedial works have 
been carried out and they want to know the capacity and adequacy of such works. The successful tender(ers) will 
need to advise the Authority on the priorities of necessary works to stabilise (where necessary) and then to provide 
advice on the need for coastal protection under various levels of urgency.
Tenderers will need to have their sums done very carefully as a key requirement is that the final study report for 
each zone awarded to a consultant or consultancy must be completed within eight weeks of the date of award of 
Contract. Closing date for tenders is November 20, 2014.
**Small Donegal builder might profit by going back to school**
For those who say that the building boom hasn't reached outside of Dublin yet, there's a tidy tender on offer in Muff, 
Co Donegal, where the board of management of Scoil Náisiúnta Bríd is looking for a contractor to build a new 
stand-alone classroom building (one classroom with WCs, entrance porch and disabled WC); along with associated 
site works and services connections.
The detailed tender includes a full specification of requirements from John McCay, architect, of Buncrana on behalf 
of his client, the school board of management.
It'll be a happy New Year for the winning tenderer, as the tender stipulates that all works must be carried out in a 
single phase between December 2014 and June 19, 2015, when the accommodation must be handed over to the 
client.
It may be bad news for the school's pupils, but contractors should note that the school will be remaining open for 
the duration of the works and the play areas, and car parking will be required for school use for the duration.
The closing date for the tender is November 14.
.....
**Too much of a good thing**
It's been a bad week at the office, with several of your tenders rejected, despite having been competitive in both 
product and price. Your team had broken its heart to make sure that the tender responses - at more than 100 pages 
long - were jam-packed with all the information, and some more, that had been asked for. But it still clearly wasn't 
enough.
So where did it all go wrong?
According 
to 
tendering 
expert 
Joanne 
Gillen 
of 
tendering 
consultants 
Bid 
Management 
Services 
(bidmanagement.ie), it's TMI - or too much information. Or, more accurately, too much irrelevant information. A key 
giveaway of that syndrome can be found in staff CVs.
When you're tendering you're trying to cover all bases. There's an anxiety that everything - including the kitchen 
sink - should be included in a response.
Sometimes this includes staff CVs, which themselves include past part-times jobs, attendance certificates, right 
down to - well, almost - their swimming medals.
Gillen said,    Staff information is more the sort of thing you want to know about at interview stage - if you get there. 
The important information to communicate when tendering is that your team is carefully chosen and can deliver. 
Well-written examples of prior relevant experience, for instance project management on the scale required in the 
current tender are more valuable than write-ups of countless part-time jobs.  
E-tendering: Gardaí seek a van-do attitude
Taking the time to winkle out this information, tailored to each specific tender opportunity, is worth the effort, 
according to Gillen.    Build this into your bid management process,   she said.
   Make it your business to always tailor your write-ups of staff experience to the tender at hand. Nothing gives a 
company a unique selling point like unique selling points.  
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
Profile, Michael O'Leary: published May 28, 1995
Profile, Michael O'Leary: published May 28, 1995
Sunday Business Post
November 2, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1536 words
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary is not your typical airline executive. Invariably dressed in an open-neck 
shirt, his style is certainly individual.
At a high-powered international airline conference in London last November, where he shared billing with Lord King 
of British Airways, O'Leary declared that his address would be    my first and last speech  . His parting shot was that 
he was returning to Dublin    to continue to work with the outstanding 525 people in Ryanair  .
On busy weekends, it is not unusual to see chief executive O'Leary driving a truck on the runway apron, washing 
aircraft or mucking in at the baggage handling area. Furthermore, he expects his managers from head office to do 
the same.
Despite the huge turnaround at Ryanair over the past four years, O'Leary has remained a hidden figure. He has 
shunned publicity and left the limelight to chairman Ray MacSharry and, more recently, to his mentor Tony Ryan.
Yet O'Leary has done more than anybody to pick Ryanair up from the floor. In doing so, he has earned a reputation 
for being ruthlessly tough, aggressive and arrogant.
Nobody can dispute that Ryanair, under O'Leary, has prospered. In 1990, the company was carrying 700,000 
passengers and losing £7 million. This year, the airline estimates that it will carry 2.1 million passengers.
It has made a profit in each of the last three years and has financed the replacement of its fleet from its own 
resources, at a cost of about £12 million.
O'Leary cannot take all the credit, but his role has been crucial. His cost-cutting crusade has driven the 'low-fare, 
no-frills' policy and he proudly claims that Ryanair is the lowest cost airline in western Europe.
Profile, Michael O'Leary: published May 28, 1995
His role model is the maverick Herb Kelleher of South West Airlines, the most profitable airline in the US. Ryanair is 
closely modelled on South West, and O'Leary and senior Ryanair staff are no strangers to Dallas, where Kelleher is 
based.
Like Kelleher, O'Leary's mission has been to disrupt the cosy club of the European aviation industry. In recent 
years, Ryanair has withdrawn from three central reservation systems, refusing to pay the charges. When booking 
Ryanair flights, travel agents now use a 1550 premium number, where a certain amount of the call revenue goes to 
Ryanair.
O'Leary has also got shirty about excessive air traffic control charges and European Commission approval for the 
Aer Lingus rescue.
His latest attack, against Aer Rianta landing charges at Dublin Airport, was articulated by Tony Ryan on television 
recently, when he flew the kite of moving Ryanair to Baldonnell.
To say that he is not liked by competitors on the cross-channel routes is a withering understatement. Other carriers 
find him overly hostile and uncompromising. Universal popularity, however, has never been a goal for Michael 
O'Leary.
His rise to the top of Ireland's largest independent airline is shrouded in the kind of mystery that the Ryan family 
have patented. He grew up in Cork, attended Clongowes and went into accountancy with KPMG Stokes Kennedy 
Crowley.
It has been suggested that O'Leary first came into contact with Tony Ryan while at SKC and, like Denis O'Brien, 
was headhunted to join his staff.
But there is a more attractive version of events, recounted by O'Leary to close friends. Legend has it that he quickly 
became disillusioned with number crunching and drew up a tax-efficient scheme for an investment, which he blindly 
sent off to Tony Ryan. The former GPA boss was so impressed by the young man that he asked him to join his 
personal staff.
O'Leary became a kind of financial minder, a troubleshooter whom Ryan could dispatch to check out his personal 
investments and interests.
He was part of Ryan's famed kitchen cabinet and held directorships in a number of Ryan companies, including 
London European Airways and Ryanair's tourism interest.
By 1990, few investments were more taxing for the Ryan family than Ryanair which, following the acrimonious 
departure of Eugene O'Neill, was being run by Ryan's 26-year-old son Declan. The Ryan family had invested £20 
million in Ryanair and, in O'Leary's own words, the shareholders decided to scream    enough  .
There were tensions between Declan Ryan and O'Leary over the running of the airline, and by all accounts the 
young O'Leary was itching to get his hands on it.
But Ryan balked at the prospect of putting an inexperienced 29-year-old in charge. PJ McGoldrick, an experienced 
airline man, had been appointed chief executive in 1988. O'Leary was discreetly appointed chief financial officer in 
1991.
O'Leary's influence in the company was immediate. He played a key role in securing a very keen deal from the 
British Airports Authority to gain access to Stansted airport, the move which, arguably, saved Ryanair from oblivion.
His cost-cutting crusade has run to banning fax cover sheets and instructing cabin crews that they must buy their 
own biros. Ryanair staff have not had a pay increase in over three years.
Salaries have become highly    incentivised  , with a very high performance element, based on the number of flights 
served. A large part of the salary of Ryanair cabin crew staff is based on commissions from bar and duty-free sales.
Profile, Michael O'Leary: published May 28, 1995
From the outset, it was clear that O'Leary was obsessed with his work.    If you arrived into the office at 6.30am, he 
would be there, surrounded by half-full paper cups of coffee with cigarette ends in them,   said one former 
colleague.    What's more, he would still be there at 10pm.  
He brought to the job an individualistic clothes sense for such a senior executive - open neck, denim shirt, jeans 
and sports jacket. He is remembered for scampering around the office in his socks. If he dined on the job, it was 
more likely to be McDonald's than Le Coq Hardi.
O'Leary has never been averse to raising his voice or using colourful language when stressing his point to staff, 
government officials, or senior bank executives. During the reign of McGoldrick and O'Leary, there was an 
extraordinarily high turnover of middle and senior management.
In a loss-making company, though, change was needed. Many of the departures resulted from retrenchment of 
European and Irish regional routes and reduction in non-core tourism investments.
As more and more staff jumped ship, there was finger pointing over O'Leary's tough management style. But 
McGoldrick saw things differently.
   I have never found him abrasive. We all have our own styles. He is younger. He is a very bright guy,   he said a 
few years ago.
While at Ryanair, O'Leary retained some of his troubleshooting duties for Ryan. The most public task was at 
Tipperary Enterprise, the EU-backed rural development company which carried Ryan's backing. Tipperary 
Enterprise was the subject of a government investigation over the administration of funds, and eventually the 
company went into liquidation. O'Leary was sent in to tidy up the shop and performed the task admirably.
In 1992, McGoldrick left Ryanair to set up Translift Airways. A former Masstock executive, Conor Hayes, was 
appointed chief executive and O'Leary was promoted to assistant chief executive. He finally got his hands on the 
controls last year.
According to close associates, O'Leary has mellowed in recent years. He is on first-name terms with the vast 
majority of Ryanair's 500 staff, and they are equally familiar with him. There is no    Mr O'Leary   in Ryanair.
He is a standard bearer of Ryanair's non-union policy. Only the pilots are unionised and even for them O'Leary has 
recently introduced short term and personal contacts where the company sets up the agenda.
   He retains the highest respect for people who do the job, the baggage handlers, the people on the desk,   said a 
former colleague.    He may be tough, but he has a genuine fondness for the company and the people who work 
there.  
O'Leary plays on the Ryanair football team as a teak-tough and very competitive centre-half. The lowest point of his 
Ryanair career was, arguably, when the team were thrashed by a Romanian airline at an away game in Bucharest.
Above all, O'Leary is an intensely private man. He is highly personable up to a point, and that point is usually 
anything which affects the profitability of the airline. He has dabbled in the property market and owns houses in 
Dublin and Mullingar, where his family now lives. His sister, Valerie, is Ryanair's marketing director.
He drives a three-year-old car and, apart from being a very useful footballer, was once a low handicap golfer.
A single man, it would be easier to get O'Leary to praise Aer Lingus than attract him to any kind of social function.
It has long been felt that O'Leary's task at Ryanair was to dress up the airline for a future disposal. The ruthless 
pursuit of market share would sit well with that theory. The Ryan family may yet decide to offload the company, and 
there is no doubt that it is significantly more valuable now than in 1990.
Profile, Michael O'Leary: published May 28, 1995
But with Tony Ryan set to become chairman of the airline next year, it is more likely that Ryanair is about to enter a 
new era, including an assault on European routes. The vision and philosophy that Ryanair will carry into that new 
era has largely been created by O'Leary's highly individualistic talents.
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair increases profit forecast
Ryanair increases profit forecast
AirFinance Journal
November 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,EUROPE,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 121 words
Highlight: Irish carrier reports 32% rise in half-year net profit to â,¬795m ($993m).
Body
Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair predicts its full-year profit will be between â,¬750m and â,¬770m, compared with its 
previous forecast of â,¬650m. Chief Executive Michael O'Leary attributed the improved forecast to "strong forward 
bookings and rising load factors." The increased forecast comes on the back of a 15% rise in second-quarter net 
profits. The carrier says after-tax-profit in the second quarter rose to â,¬598 million ($747 million) as sales 
advanced 6.75% to â,¬2 billion. Ryanair recently became the launch customer for the Boeing 737 Max 200, with an 
order for 100 aircraft, worth $11 billion at list prices. The airline also has options to purchase an additional 100 
aircraft. edited by dharris@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: November 24, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to open second Danish base at Copenhagen Airport
Ryanair to open second Danish base at Copenhagen Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 31, 2014 Friday 2:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 135 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced that it will open its second Danish base at Copenhagen Airport in March 2015.
Body
Ryanair's base at Copenhagen will deliver: 4 based aircraft; 3 new routes to London, Milan & Warsaw (with 10 more 
to be announced in the New Year); 28 weekly flights (increasing to more than 100); Over 1m customers p.a.; and 
1,000 "on site" jobs p.a. Ryanair will base its 1st Boeing 737-800 in Copenhagen from March and 3 more units later 
in 2015. Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, David O'Brien said: "Our 3 new Copenhagen routes with daily 
frequencies are ideal for business passengers and families booking their low fare summer holiday getaways, with 
fares starting from just 149 DKK one-way. Ryanair customers can also enjoy allocated seating, a free second carry-
on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding passes, and our great new Family 
Extra and Business Plus services."
Load-Date: November 6, 2014
End of Document
Google case casts shadow over competition chief Interview: Joaquín Almunia
Google case casts shadow over competition chief; Interview: Joaquín 
Almunia
Financial Times (London, England)
October 29, 2014 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 911 words
Byline: Alex Barker in Brussels
Highlight: Battle with US tech giant may define the legacy of Europe's outgoing antitrust enforcer
Body
As Europe's competition chief, Joaquín Almunia slapped record cartel fines on rate-rigging banks, led an assault on 
cosy anti-competitive tax deals , and vetoed empire building mergers by the likes of UPS , NYSE Euronext and 
Ryanair .
But in the twilight of his five years in office, this veteran Spanish socialist - once dubbed "the mule" by lawyers 
frustrated by his inflexibility - is being preyed upon by a torturous unfinished case that may well define his legacy: 
Google .
His valedictory message to critics is that he never bought the hype or succumbed to political pressure from 
Germany or elsewhere. "The autonomy of antitrust enforcement is an important issue and a serious one and, from 
my point of view, a reality," he said in an interview with the Financial Times.
The frustrations over the public portrayal of the Google investigation are clear in a 90-minute parting interview, 
which is notably disciplined, lawyerly and cautious for an outgoing enforcer known for his political nous and sharp 
tongue.
Mr Almunia wants his time remembered for other achievements. On the finance front, it is for pushing new frontiers 
in antitrust enforcement, and acting as Europe's main bank resolution authority at the height of the eurozone crisis. 
Google case casts shadow over competition chief Interview: Joaquín Almunia
On tech, it is for his interventions on ebooks and the attempt to disarm the smartphone patent wars . On state aid, it 
is for streamlining enforcement and challenging tax deals with the likes of Apple, Amazon and Starbucks.
Yet the shadow of Google is hard to avoid. The US search giant's tangle with Mr Almunia ran to three draft 
settlement attempts and generated more noise, outrage and lawyer fees than perhaps any European Commission 
probe since Microsoft almost a decade ago. Unlike the Microsoft battle, the Google to-and-fro has proved 
troublesome for the commission's reputation as a tough, impartial authority.
Mr Almunia denies having any regrets and says calls from senior German and French ministers for tougher action 
played no role in persuading him to reject the third settlement.
"It had no influence on the Google investigation. It is like that. It is not that it should be like that - it is like that. What 
mattered were the arguments put down by Google, the complainants and the stakeholders - particularly the 
complainants. No other people influenced me.
"Some lawyers living in this city are very political lawyers. I can give you names!" he adds with a laugh as he throws 
a barb at a legal community often quick to gripe about the Almunia era.
"I remember at this very table some conversations with important chief executives. I asked: why are you spending 
all this money on PR? It is completely useless."
This theme of his political independence is paramount, including on issues such as Gazprom allegedly 
overcharging in eastern Europe - a probe that has been frozen by the Ukraine crisis.
Before Ukraine, Mr Almunia said his initial settlement talks with the Russian gas group in some respects "looked 
positive". "But for both sides this did not continue when the crisis started. I told the commission services to prepare 
a draft [formal charges] and we are there," he said.
Asked about the danger of retaliation, Mr Almunia said: "The Gazprom investigation should not be interpreted as a 
political weapon. It is antitrust. Our investigations need to be isolated from other considerations and that is what I 
tried to do and recommend we do."
Both the Google and Gazprom cases will be some of the toughest dilemmas facing Mr Almunia's successor 
Margrethe Vestager, a former Danish economy minister with a steely reputation. For now she is embracing Mr 
Almunia's tax legacy with more relish.
Mr Almunia sees the tax cases are more than just economics, there is a "moral" responsibility to address anti-
competitive ways government's apply their own tax rules.
He smiles at the mention of Michael Noonan, the Irish finance minister, phasing out the so-called "double Irish" tax 
avoidance scheme , partly because of Brussels pressure. "What I read about the speech sounds quite good," Mr 
Almunia said. "A step forward."
While he hit banks with record fines of about EUR1.8bn for collusion over rigging of interest rate benchmarks such 
Libor and Euribor, he is cautious on whether the sector has turned the corner. He says "strong efforts" are still 
needed to contain markets with heady incentives and little transparency. "I mean the bonuses," he adds.
Short shrift
Splitting of search engine not supported
After years investigating Google, Joaquín Almunia admits it may be time to start thinking about regulation - but not 
the kind that many of the US search engine's critics hope for.
Google case casts shadow over competition chief Interview: Joaquín Almunia
The outgoing EU competition commissioner sees the Google case as almost "a proxy for the new digital era", 
creating choice and opportunity for consumers along with challenges for competition authorities and regulators. "It 
is kind of a new world and this will not be solved in one shot."
He sees a clear need to change laws on privacy, data protection, copyright and taxation.
But he gives short shrift to ideas to split Google up, force it to publish its search engine formula or be "neutral" in the 
way it presents results.
"I heard voices, some from friends of mine, saying we need to split Google into two or three pieces. Have you 
thought what that means? Search neutrality? What does that mean? Competition enforcement is an ex-post activity 
by definition, but when you enforce those rules you learn a lot," he said. Alex Barker
Load-Date: October 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair plan USD400m Copenhagen hub; Ryanair Hub
Ryanair plan USD400m Copenhagen hub; Ryanair Hub
Business World (Digest)
October 29, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 83 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it plans to open its second Danish base at Copenhagen in March 2015.
Body
Ryanair today said it plans to open its second Danish base at Copenhagen in March 2015.
The USD400m investment will see up to four based aircraft and starting with three new routes to London, Milan and 
Warsaw, with an additional 10 more new routes to be announced in the New Year.
Ryanair said it will deliver over 1m customers a year and support 1,000 "on-site" jobs
It will base its first Boeing 737-800 in Copenhagen from March and three more units later in 2015. For more visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair opens third Scottish base in Glasgow
Ryanair opens third Scottish base in Glasgow
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 29, 2014 Wednesday 1:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 107 words
Highlight: Ryanair has opened its third Scottish base in Glasgow with one based aircraft, seven new routes for 
winter and nine new routes for summer 2015.
Body
Ryanair's Glasgow base will deliver: 7 winter routes (including Dublin and London Stansted 3 x daily); 9 summer 
routes (Bydgoszcz, Carcassonne, Chania, Derry, Dublin, London, Riga, Warsaw & Wroclaw); over 850,000 
customers p.a.; and over 850 "on-site jobs". Ryanair's UK Sales and Marketing Manager, Maria Macken said: 
"Ryanair customers can choose the lowest fares from Glasgow, while enjoying allocated seating, a free second 
carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding passes, and our new Family 
Extra and Business Plus services, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, business and leisure travellers.
Load-Date: November 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair hit with (EURO)8.3m French fine over staff contract dispute
Ryanair hit with (EURO)8.3m French fine over staff contract dispute
City A.M.
October 29, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 172 words
Byline: KATE McCANN
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair is facing an (EURO)8.3m (£6.55m) fine in France after a court ruled the carrier had 
breached its labour laws.
The appeal court turned down the airline's bid to have the decision overturned, after French authorities fined it for 
avoiding social security payments in the country by putting workers on contracts in Ireland.
The case involves 127 workers at Marseilles airport between 2007 and 2010.
Ryanair must now pay (EURO)8.1m in damages to trade unions and the social security system in France and a 
(EURO)200,000 fine as a result of the ruling. The airline had argued that as an Irish company operating aircraft 
based in Ireland it was entitled to employ staff on Irish contracts. It added that salaried staff had already made 
social security payments and paid taxes in Ireland.
In October, Ryanair vowed to fight the ruling, with director of communications Robin Kiely adding that the airline 
would not be forced to "double pay" taxes in France. It may now seek to claw back payment from the Irish 
government.
Graphic
 
The budget airline has been hit with a big fine after putting French staff on Irish contracts
Ryanair hit with (EURO)8.3m French fine over staff contract dispute
Load-Date: October 29, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair extend Dublin Winter schedule Ryanair Dublin
Ryanair extend Dublin Winter schedule; Ryanair Dublin
Business World (Digest)
October 28, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 96 words
Highlight: Ryanair today extended its Dublin winter schedule, increasing its East Midlands service to two times 
daily.
Body
Ryanair today extended its Dublin winter schedule, increasing its East Midlands service to two times daily.
This is in addition to 9 new routes including, Brussels (3 times daily), Cologne (1 times daily) and Glasgow (3 times 
daily), increased flights on 22 existing routes to/from Dublin Airport and improved timings to Bristol, Edinburgh and 
Glasgow.
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at Dublin will deliver 9 new routes to Basel, Brussels-Zaventem, Bucharest, 
Cologne, Glasgow, Lisbon, Marrakesh, Nice and Prague with 60 Dublin routes in total.
For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 30, 2014
End of Document
Court tells Ryanair to pay E8.3m fines Ryanair Fined
Court tells Ryanair to pay E8.3m fines; Ryanair Fined
Business World (Digest)
October 28, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 163 words
Highlight: Ryanair has been ordered to pay E8.1m in damages and E200,000 in fines for breaches of French 
labour laws after the Irish airline lost an appeal.
Body
Ryanair has been ordered to pay E8.1m in damages and E200,000 in fines for breaches of French labour laws after 
the Irish airline lost an appeal.
The court in Aix-en-Provence found the company guilty of paying workers under Irish contracts to avoid making 
French social security payments.
The case refers to Ryanair staff employed at Marseille airport between 2007 and 2010.
Ryanair had contested the decision. Originally the budget airline was ordered to pay E8.8m, including E4.5m of 
backdated social charges, E3m in pension contributions and E450,000 in unemployment charges. In October 2013, 
Ryanair said it would appeal against the decision, arguing that its staff had already paid social taxes and pension 
contributions in Ireland. The company argued that it should not have to pay such charges twice and lodged an 
appeal in June 2014. The French appeal court upheld the original decision, but did reduce the amount of damages 
by E700,000. For more, visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 31, 2014
End of Document
Sainsbury's grasps the discount nettle with budget chain venture
Sainsbury's grasps the discount nettle with budget chain venture
Financial Times (London, England)
October 27, 2014 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: INSIDE BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 739 words
Byline: Jonathan Ford on Monday
Body
What do you do when a competitor breaks into your industry with a disruptive low-cost business model and starts 
taking customers hand over fist?
Do you ape the insurgent - or hunker down and defend your turf as best you can?
It is a question that has vexed business chiefs for generations - from the steel bosses blindsided by the rise of 
cheap and cheerful mini-mills in the 1970s to those running Europe's flag-carrier airlines, whose "what-the-hell" 
moment came two decades later with the rise of the budget rivals in the belligerent shape of easyJet and Ryanair.
It is also a question to which Sainsbury's has just given an answer. Britain's third-largest supermarket group intends 
to go into competition with itself next month when it launches a new discount supermarket chain with the Danish 
group Netto.
Its initial commitment is modest: £12.5m to put 15 Netto-branded stores in the north of England, where its own 
presence is weak. But if the venture is to work, many more will follow. The company's decision is a testament to the 
weakened position of the so-called "Big Four" supermarket chains. Traditionally dominant, since the financial crisis 
they have come under ferocious pressure from discount supermarkets.
Sainsbury's grasps the discount nettle with budget chain venture
Led by the German operators Aldi and Lidl, discounters have fanned out across the UK, winning thrifty converts 
with their low prices and taking 8 per cent of the market - a number that is expected to double over the next five 
years.
Not content with flogging cut-price cat litter and baked beans, these insurgents are now launching raids on more 
sophisticated territory. Last month, Lidl launched a range of fine wines, including the distinctly un-frugal sounding 
Haut-Médoc Château Sociando Mallet 2008, which it sells for £25.99 a bottle.
Such initiatives threaten to drain custom away from the aisles of the enormous out-of-town boxes that used to 
symbolise the Big Four's seemingly unassailable position. As well as the discounters, they are also losing trade to 
small in-town upmarket chains like Waitrose and Marks and Spencer, where consumers increasingly go to buy fine 
food and "treats". For the giants, this is a big worry. Not only do these boxes tie up enormous amounts of capital; 
they are not much use for anything else.
All the Big Four are feeling the pinch. Tesco's accounting scandal - last week it admitted to overstating its profits by 
£263m - is partly a function of the pressure.
But the issue is particularly vexing for Sainsbury's. The most upmarket of the Big Four, it has its largest presence in 
the affluent southeast. Chasing the discounters downmarket might turn off those picky customers.
In theory, going into business with Netto makes sense. The partnership gives Sainsbury's exposure to the fastest-
growing part of its market without endangering its brand. It could help with the surplus property problem. One of the 
first branches will carve 10,000 sq ft out of the side of a 100,000 sq ft Sainsbury's box near Manchester.
But there is little sign of the rest of the Big Four following Sainsbury's lead. Morrison has looked at setting up a 
captive discounter but shelved the plan, preferring to cut prices in its core chain.
Apart from the fact that its rivals are not as posh as Sainsbury's and so do not face the same conflict, one reason is 
that such add-on ventures do not have a great record. Some European food retailers, such as Metro and Carrefour, 
have attempted to set up captive discount chains. Most have failed.
Trying to be an incumbent-cum-insurgent is not easy. Allocating capital to the challenger means you have less to 
put into the core business. By trying to be all things to all people can mean you end up being not very good at any 
of them. The dilemma gets bigger the more the venture grows. It is one reason British Airways gave up on Go, its 
in-house budget airline, more than a decade ago.
It may not be very easy being an established player under attack. But such businesses do start with advantages: 
institutional memory and a deep knowledge of customers and suppliers.
Nor are incumbents always destined to defeat. These wars are rarely zero sum; new models create new markets. 
Europe's budget airlines may have a loyal following, but flag carriers still flourish. It is even true of the steel industry, 
that graveyard of managerial reputations. The US mini-mills may have done their worst. But America's biggest steel 
producer remains US Steel.
 
Load-Date: October 26, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair changes Website after complaints Ryanair Selling
Ryanair changes Website after complaints; Ryanair Selling
Business World (Digest)
October 24, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 247 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it has changed the way it sells insurance on its Website following complaints and 
after an investigation by the National Consumer Agency.
Body
Ryanair today said it has changed the way it sells insurance on its Website following complaints and after an 
investigation by the National Consumer Agency.
The consumer watchdog considered that Ryanair was presenting information in relation to the sale of travel 
insurance in a manner that was unclear, ambiguous and could cause some consumers to unwittingly purchase a 
policy they didn't want.
The website has now been changed and, in the Agency's view, the possibility of a consumer purchasing unwanted 
travel insurance has been significantly reduced.
In September of this year following an investigation, the National Consumer Agency advised Ryanair of its concerns 
relating to the manner in which it was selling insurance on its website. Commenting on the matter, the Chief 
Executive of the National Consumer Agency, Ms. Karen O'Leary said "We welcome Ryanair's decision and our 
engagement with them on this issue serves as a reminder to all traders that consumers must be provided with clear 
and transparent information and not be exposed to unfair or misleading commercial practices. These requirements 
are set out in law and traders are required to ensure that they are in compliance". "Where the Agency believes that 
consumer law is not being complied with, we take a proportionate response and make full use of the various options 
available to us to ensure that the detriment caused to consumers is mitigated as soon as possible," she added. For 
more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 29, 2014
Ryanair changes Website after complaints Ryanair Selling
End of Document
Are Trans-Atlantic Flights About To Get Cheaper?
Are Trans-Atlantic Flights About To Get Cheaper?
International Business Times News
October 24, 2014 Friday 8:50 PM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 935 words
Byline: Ismat Sarah Mangla
Body
Oct 24, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 Flying from the U.S. to Europe is pricey -- these days, be prepared to shell out upwards of $600 for a ticket, and a 
lot more than that during peak travel times. So when an airline announces cheap transatlantic fares, as Iceland's 
discount carrier WOW air did this week[1], consumers take notice. WOW, which is touting one-way tickets from 
Boston and Baltimore/Washington to three cities in Europe for as low as $99, follows Norwegian Air Shuttle, 
another budget carrier that launched cheap flights between the U.S. and London[2] this summer.
 Are long-haul, low-cost carriers flying from the U.S. to Europe finally here to stay? The answer is a complicated 
one, say experts. Airlines have been trying to crack the cheap, no-frills transatlantic flight code since the late 1970s, 
when the U.K.-based Laker Airways began operations between London and New York[3]. But that service, like 
many that came after it, was unable to sustain profitability and eventually folded. 
 'It was tough for [Laker Airways] to break into the transatlantic markets in the 1970s and 1980s, and it is still tough 
now,' said airline industry analyst Robert Mann. 
 Low-cost carriers like Spirit Airlines in the U.S. and Ryanair in Europe have managed to minimize costs and offer 
cheap fares by operating frequent flights, often between secondary airports; flying fewer types of aircraft to slash 
maintenance and training costs; performing fast turnarounds of flights; cramming the maximum number of 
passengers on planes; and charging for services like luggage, food and seating assignments. 
 'A lot of what makes the low-cost model work for short-haul carriers doesn't apply to long haul. There aren't as 
many opportunities to cut costs,' said Ryan Leick, a professor at Utah Valley University who specializes in air 
transport strategy and marketing. 'Even charging for luggage -- that becomes an expected service on international 
flights.' 
 'The economics involved with long-haul flying are very different,' said Henry Harteveldt, an airline industry expert. 
'There are very few routes that you can operate more than one flight a day.' 
 Leick added that operating at cheaper, less congested airports allows airlines to maximize their turnaround time, an 
option that is not available for international flights. And by their nature, planes flying longer flights require much 
more time for servicing, refueling, cleaning and unloading. 
 In Asia, where there are 47 long-haul, low-cost carriers, according to the Centre of Aviation[4], the flying public is 
often more willing to put up with tightly-packed planes. Cebu Pacific, the Filipino discount carrier, for example, 
crams 436 seats onto its A330s[5] -- the same plane Etihad fills with 231.
Are Trans-Atlantic Flights About To Get Cheaper?
 What allowed Norwegian to offer lower fares was the introduction in its fleet of Boeing's Dreamliner jet, which 
maximizes fuel efficiency. But the airline is facing major regulatory hurdles[6], as U.S. regulators believe the airline's 
plan to base operations in Ireland -- but not fly from there -- violates labor and tax laws. 
 'Norwegian has really pioneered the long-haul, low-cost service, but it hasn't been without controversy. I've heard 
mixed reviews from people who have flown with them regarding seat comfort, onboard amenities, and crew 
behavior. Anecdotally, people have told me that while they flew with them once, they wouldn't do it again,' said 
Harteveldt. 'And the U.S. could still ban them. So airlines are watching them closely.' 
 According to Harteveldt, WOW air's entrance into the market is minor, given the limited number of seats and 
routes. But Harteveldt believes that the big players already in the low-cost space may enter the long-haul market 
soon. 'I don't think a startup would try it, because it's incredibly risky, but an airline like Ryanair or JetBlue could 
credibly explore it.' 
 In fact, the CEOs of both companies have hinted at launching low-cost, long-haul service[7] for transatlantic flights. 
But they'll have to be creative about how they approach it, said Jonathan Galaviz, partner at consulting firm Global 
Market Advisors. 'More established low-cost carriers like JetBlue and Ryanair will likely attempt to engage in cross-
ocean services, but they will be cautious on the routes they select,' he said in an email. 'The best opportunity [for 
them] is on city-pairings in which legacy carriers do not currently provide point-to-point service.'
 Still, consumers are hungry for reasonable fares that will get them across the Atlantic without breaking the bank. 
And so there's reason to be optimistic, said Leick: 'The long-haul, low-cost model has failed in the past. But just 
because it hasn't worked doesn't mean it can't work in the future.'
 [1]: 
http://www.ibtimes.com/ibtraveler/icelands-budget-airline-wow-air-launches-transatlantic-flights-low-99-
1712288 [2]:            http://www.usatoday.com/story/todayinthesky/2014/07/03/norwegian-air-low-cost-carrier-
between-usa-europe/12174013/ [3]:            http://www.atn.aero/content/jats/jats21.pdf [4]:            
http://centreforaviation.com/analysis/asia-pacific-2014-outlook-faster-growth-for-low-cost-airlines-as-lcc-fleet-
reaches-1000-aircraft-146351 [5]:            http://www.economist.com/blogs/gulliver/2014/07/making-low-cost-long-
haul-flights-work [6]:            http://www.travelpulse.com/opinions/column/norwegian-air-international-meeting-
request-a-risky-tactic.html [7]:            http://www.ch-aviation.com/portal/news/28170-oleary-once-again-touts-
ryanair-transatlantic-flights-by-2019 
Load-Date: October 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair announces car parking partnership with MAG
Ryanair announces car parking partnership with MAG
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 24, 2014 Friday 11:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 217 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced a new car parking partnership with Manchester Airport Group, or MAG, offering 
Ryanair passengers pre-booked parking facilities at East Midlands, London Stansted and Manchester airports.
Body
Ryanair operates over 200 routes in total from East Midlands, London Stansted and Manchester and customers can 
now avail of discounted car parking on the Ryanair.com website before they fly, as well as more parking options 
including on-site and off-site, ensuring they enjoy the lowest car parking rates as well as the lowest airfares. 
Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair continues to offer the lowest airfares and biggest choice of routes, as well as 
the best customer service. Now customers travelling from East Midlands, London Stansted and Manchester airports 
can enjoy even more savings and convenience, thanks to our new partnership with MAG. Pre-booked car parking is 
available to purchase on the Ryanair.com website, offering even greater choice, particularly for business 
customers." MAG Commercial Director for Car Parks, Nolan Hough said: "We're pleased to announce this new link 
up which enables both Ryanair and MAG customers to quickly and easily book their flights and car parking at the 
same time, using the same website and in one transaction. Booking direct with the airport secures the best car 
parking prices and helps us to plan ahead but this new deal means the customer will still receive those great best-
price deals via Ryanair directly, saving the customer both time and money."
Load-Date: October 30, 2014
End of Document
Boeing Soars In Q3 On Commercial Aircraft Back Orders
Boeing Soars In Q3 On Commercial Aircraft Back Orders
International Business Times News
October 22, 2014 Wednesday 4:48 PM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 356 words
Byline: Angelo Young
Body
Oct 22, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 The Boeing Co. beat Wall Street's expectations for its third-quarter 2014 earnings, thanks to strong Asian demand 
for fuel-efficient 737 medium-range jets and U.S. orders for the P-8 Poseidon military aircraft.
 The world's largest aerospace company reported Wednesday morning revenue of $23.8 billion and $2.14 earnings 
per share, up from $22.13 billion of revenue and $1.80 earnings per share in the same period a year ago.
 Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected revenue of $23.02 billion and $1.97 earnings per share. The 
company's share price rose in pre-market trading but was down 1.6 percent after the markets opened in New York.
 Here are the main highlights from the earnings report[1]:
 - Boeing raised its guidance for 2014 earnings to between $8.10 and $8.30 a share, up from $7.90 to $8.10.
 - The company reported a record backlog of 5,500 orders for commercial aircraft worth $430 billion. It received 
orders for 501 planes in the quarter.
 - Commercial aircraft deliveries increased 9 percent from the same period a year ago, to 186 planes. For the first 
nine months of the year, deliveries increased 11 percent to 528 units. Revenue from commercial aircraft was up 15 
percent to $16.11 billion.
 - Boeing's Defense, Space and Security division reports a backlog of $60 billion worth of orders, 37 percent from 
international customers. Revenue for the company's military and space division was down 2 percent to $7.91 billion.
 - Boeing's military aircraft segment saw revenue rise 80 percent to $440 million, 'reflecting higher P-8 deliveries.'
 - Boeing launched production of the 737 MAX 200 , the fourth generation of the 737 family. Ryanair has ordered 
100 of the more fuel-efficient planes.
 - The 737 MAX currently has 2,300 orders, spurring the company to increase production to 47 planes a month by 
2017 and 52 a month by 2018. The ramp-up will help the company meet demand for the newer medium-range 
commercial aircraft, which is soaring in Asia.
 [1]: http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=85482p=IROL-sec#9712828 
Load-Date: October 22, 2014
End of Document
Boeing Q3 Profit Up 18%, Results Beat View; Lifts 2014 Outlook Once Again
Boeing Q3 Profit Up 18%, Results Beat View; Lifts 2014 Outlook Once Again
RTT News (United States)
October 22, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 805 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Aerospace and defense giant Boeing Co. (BA) on Wednesday reported an 18 percent increase in 
profit for the third quarter from last year on higher revenues, reflecting strong demand for commercial aircraft.
Both revenues and adjusted earnings per share for the quarter beat analysts' expectations. Looking ahead to fiscal 
2014, Boeing once again raised its earnings outlook, while reaffirming its revenue expectations.
Jim McNerney, Boeing Chairman and CEO, said, "Continued strong operating performance across our production 
and services businesses drove significant growth in earnings-per-share, and enabled us to continue to capture new 
business, pushing our order backlog to a record $490 billion."
McNerney added, "We added net new orders for 501 commercial airplanes, launched the high-capacity 737 MAX 
200, captured a NASA contract for the Commercial Crew program, and returned $1.5 billion to shareholders 
through dividends and share repurchases."
The Chicago, Illinois-based company reported net income for the third quarter of $1.36 billion or $1.86 per share, up 
from $1.16 billion or $1.51 per share in the prior-year quarter.
Excluding items, core earnings for the quarter were $2.14 per share, compared with $1.80 per share in the year-ago 
period. On average, 21 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected the company to report earnings of $1.98 per 
share for the quarter. Analysts' estimates typically exclude special items.
Total revenues for the quarter grew 7 percent to $23.78 billion from $22.13 billion in the same quarter last year, and 
beat analysts' consensus estimate of $23.02 billion. The increase in revenues reflect higher deliveries.
Operating margin for the quarter edged up 0.8 percentage points to 8.9 percent.
Segment-wise, Boeing Commercial Airplanes revenue for the quarter increased 15 percent from last year to $16.11 
billion, on higher deliveries of aircraft. Commercial airplanes deliveries for the quarter increased 9 percent from the 
year-ago period to 186.
During the quarter, Boeing launched the 737 MAX 200 with a commitment from Ryanair for 100 airplanes. The 737 
program has won nearly 2,300 firm orders for the 737 MAX since launch.
Boeing Q3 Profit Up 18%, Results Beat View; Lifts 2014 Outlook Once Again
Due to continued strong demand, Boeing intends to increase the 737 production rate from 42 to 47 per month in 
2017, with recently announced plans to increase to 52 per month in 2018. Also during the quarter, Boeing delivered 
the first GEnx-powered 787-9 Dreamliner.
The Commercial Airplanes segment booked 501 net orders during the quarter. The division had a backlog of over 
5,500 airplanes, valued at a record $430 billion.
In the Boeing Defense, Space & Security segment, total revenues declined 2 percent from last year to $7.91 billion, 
with revenues from Network & Space Systems decreasing 9 percent. Boeing Military Aircraft revenues rose 3 
percent, reflecting higher P-8 deliveries.
Backlog at Defense, Space & Security was $60 billion, of which 37 percent represents orders with international 
customers.
Total company backlog of $490 billion at quarter-end rose from $440.3 billion at the beginning of the quarter, and 
includes $73 billion of net orders during the quarter.
Looking ahead to fiscal 2014, Boeing once again raised its outlook for core earnings to a range of $8.10 to $8.30 
per share from the prior range of $7.90 to $8.10 per share, citing its strong operating performance.
The company also raised its outlook for full-year reported earnings to a range of $6.90 to $7.10 per share from the 
prior range of $6.85 to $7.05 per share.
However, Boeing reaffirmed its outlook for full-year revenue in a range of $87.5 billion to $90.5 billion.
Street expects the company to report earnings of $8.28 per share for the year on revenues of $89.60 billion.
Boeing continues to project commercial aircraft deliveries for the year between 715 and 725, assuming about 110 
deliveries of the 787 aircraft.
In a separate statement, Boeing said that in collaboration with Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China or COMAC, it has 
opened a demonstration facility that will turn waste cooking oil, commonly referred to as 'gutter oil' in China, into 
sustainable aviation biofuel.
The two companies estimate that 500 million gallons or 1.8 billion liters of biofuel could be made annually in China 
from used cooking oil.
Boeing and COMAC are sponsoring the facility, which is called the China-U.S. Aviation Biofuel Pilot Project. It will 
use a technology developed by Hangzhou Energy & Engineering Technology Co., Ltd. to clean contaminants from 
waste oils and convert it into jet fuel at a rate of 160 gallons or 650 liters, per day.
BA closed Tuesday's trading at $127.12. In Wednesday's pre-market trades, the stock is up $0.19 or 0.15 percent 
to $127.31.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: October 22, 2014
End of Document
Lufthansa pilot strike sparks long haul chaos
Lufthansa pilot strike sparks long haul chaos
City A.M.
October 21, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 23
Length: 275 words
Byline: PETER MAUSHAGEN
Body
LUFTHANSA has cancelled 1,511 flights as a result of a strike being held by pilots that runs until midnight today, a 
spokesman said yesterday.
It is the equivalent to around 65 per cent of the 2,333 flights it would normally operate during the strike.
Pilots' union VC had initially planned to strike only on short-haul routes yesterday and today but yesterday extended 
the strike to include long-haul flights.
The walkout affecting long-haul flights adds weight to the eighth strike action taken by pilots against Lufthansa this 
year in a drawn-out dispute over retirement benefits. Lufthansa on Sunday cancelled 1,450 flights after the pilots 
union called for a strike yesterday and today, adding to travellers' misery in Germany after millions were left 
stranded by a weekend-long train drivers' stoppage. Both pilots' and train drivers' ' strikes hit at the start of half-term 
holidays in nearly half of Germany's 16 federal states.
DZ Bank analyst Dirk Schlamp estimates the strikes would cut Lufthansa''s earnings before interest and tax by 
(EURO)80m to (EURO)90m this year.
"A solution, however, is not yet apparent. Therefore, further strikes are possible," he said.
The strikes come as the national airline is trying to expand low-cost operations that will allow it to compete more 
effectively with budget carriers such as Ryanair and EASYJET on shorthaul European routes.
VC, representing about 5,400 Lufthansa pilots, is fighting to keep a scheme that allows pilots to retire at the age of 
55 and still receive up to 60 percent of their pay before regular pension payments start at 65.
Lufthansa pilot strike sparks long haul chaos
The union has proposed a plan to cover the costs of the scheme.
Graphic
 
Lufthansa saw many of its planes grounded by strikes yesterday
Load-Date: October 21, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair CMO tells firms to keep CX strategy internal THE WEEK IN BRIEF
Ryanair CMO tells firms to keep CX strategy internal; THE WEEK IN BRIEF
City A.M.
October 20, 2014 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 25
Length: 78 words
Body
Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, has advised businesses to "just [get] on with" their customer 
experience strategy themselves, rather than turn to consultants. Speaking at The Drum's Joy of CX event in 
London, he unveiled a raft of changes the airline has made to improve its customer service. Seeking advice 
externally would have "paralysed" the process, he said, with "consultants who end up going through a 200 page 
document of what we need to change."
Load-Date: October 20, 2014
End of Document
Ex Post Facto: Behind the stories
Ex Post Facto: Behind the stories
Sunday Business Post
October 19, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 1100 words
Body
The latest stage in the battle between Nama and Chicago Spire developer Garrett Kelleher hits the High Court this 
week with a hearing set for Wednesday.
Nama is pursuing Kelleher for a judgment of EUR 46.8 million related mainly to Anglo Irish Bank loans for 
developments here, in the US and Belgium, including loans connected with the Chicago Spire project.
Meanwhile, things have been on the up, financially at least, if not in the actual construction sense, in relation to 
Kelleher's stateside skyscraper venture, an incredibly ambitious development started nearly a decade ago, but 
halted by the economic crash in 2008.
New York real estate lender Stonebeck has agreed to fund Kelleher to pull the Chicago Spire project out of 
bankruptcy.
Under a court-approved plan, Kelleher and his partner investor Atlas have until the end of this month to pay back 
the Spire's biggest creditor, American billionaire Stephen Ross's Related Midwest more than $109 million and keep 
control of the site. The payment rises to $114 million for an extension to a deadline of March next year.
If he pulls this off, Kelleher will be set to build the world's highest residential building, a 150-storey Calatrava 
designed condo tower.
.......................
**Our man in Hong Kong**
Dublin-based aviation firm Awas has narrowed down bidders on a chunk of its choicest assets to a final five, we 
hear.
Ex Post Facto: Behind the stories
The aircraft lessor backed by colourful British financier and former EMI investor Guy Hands is at final bidding stage 
to sell 100 of its newest aircraft in a $5 billion deal which may include a staff transfer and is due to close this year.
Hands has been keen to exit Awas for some time, but has been awaiting a post-
recession bounce-back. His Terra Firma private equity firm bought Awas in 2006 for $2.5 billion and added another 
lessor for a further $5 billion.
Big Asian bidders are among the final five, including, it is believed, Hong Kong Aviation Capital (HKAC), which is 
run by Irishman Donal Boylan.
From the hundred and somethingth floor of a Hong Kong skyscraper Boylan has headed up the Chinese 
government backed HKAC since 2011.
Boylan founded Royal Bank of Scotland's aviation leasing arm, which was bought out and became SMBC Aviation 
Capital, owned by one of the biggest banks in Japan and headquartered in Dublin. SMBC is also said to be a final 
bidder on the Awas stock.
Like many in Irish aviation, Boylan got his start at Ryanair founder Tony Ryan's Guinness Peat Aviation.
Boylan and other bidders will vie with one of Asia's richest men, Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-Shing. His Cheung 
Kong Holdings owns ThreeMobile in Ireland and has also bid for the Awas aircraft.
Based in Dublin's docklands, Awas supplies planes to hundreds of airlines globally including Quantas and Thai 
Airways.
.........................
**INM's new boss says hello**
New Independent News and Media chief executive Robert Pitt started his tenure last week on a friendly note.
   Hello everyone,   began the jaunty email that landed in staff inboxes.
Pitt goes on to say how grateful he is to INM's chairman, Denis O'Brien's right hand man Lesley Buckley, for the 
opportunity and for the INM board's faith in him.
With his Tesco background he saw quite a bit about selling newspapers from the retail side, he says, but looks 
forward to learning more about the wider business.
He acknowledges the challenges in tough markets, but says it was    very heartening to see the great progress 
made in the first half of the year  .
   For that I thank you all and hope that together we can surpass that success and improve even further.  
He references his experience in growing and commercialising digital, which is a core INM focus.
   My belief in open and transparent communication means that I will always try to be clear and transparent with you 
all,   he says.
   I would appreciate a similar approach from you all back to me especially in your ideas and opinions,   he goes on, 
adding that staff should feel free to contact him directly.
Sounds like a lovely chap.
.......................
**Timoney's secret customers**
Ex Post Facto: Behind the stories
Meath-based Timoney Holdings saw turnover leap from EUR 4.1 million to EUR 7.7 million in 2013, according to 
the most recently filed set of accounts for the company.
It's led to a whopping jump in profits too, with 2012's figure of EUR 862,052 rising to EUR 3.3 million in 2013. That 
means shareholders' funds rose too, from EUR 6.4 million to EUR 9.6 million - a healthy boost for major 
shareholders   anna and Sean Timoney, Shane O'Neill and Singapore-based company Mobility Systems Pte Ltd.
But good luck finding out precisely how they managed such an impressive boost - according to notes within the 
accounts,    no disclosure of turnover by activity and market is provided, as it is the directors' opinion that disclosure 
of such information would be seriously prejudicial to the interests of the group  .
In short, it's a secret. That's probably not surprising. Timoney makes military grade vehicles. As The Sunday 
Business Post has written in the past, Timoney started out selling armoured personnel carriers to the Irish army in 
the 1970s, but has since expanded its client base globally.
For example, among its other contracts, it has sold an eight-wheel-drive carrier called the CM-32, to Taiwanese 
military, and its Bushmaster vehicle to the Australian army for use in Iraq and Afghanistan.
But don't tell anyone: it's a secret.
.........................
**Timing is everything**
With markets spiralling downwards last week, the companies that took advantage of capital markets before the 
recent storm are probably breathing a sigh of relief.
Equities are following a sharp sell off in risky high yield or junk bonds, and the market timing for Ardagh and Digicel 
refinancing multibillion dollar deals earlier this year looks smart. Denis O'Brien and Paul Coulson have long seemed 
to have a smart touch for when to pull the trigger on a deal.
On the equity side both Green Reit and more recently Hibernia Reit successfully reloaded their war chests, with 
Hibernia no doubt glad the lawyers didn't drag the process out another week, allowing them to close the book on a 
EUR 300 million secondary offering just prior to negative market sentiment surging.
As it stands we're still in market correction rather than market crash territory, but an 8 per cent fall in the Iseq since 
the beginning of October doesn't bode well. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley must be glad not to be facing into 
this headwind and trying to flog Eircom's growth story, having said that those IPO fees would have been nice before 
the year end bonuses are calculated!
Load-Date: October 20, 2014
End of Document
Still a high flier
Still a high flier
Sunday Business Post
October 19, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 2927 words
Body
Ten years at the helm of British Airways and its parent company IAG have not changed Willie Walsh all that much. 
His buzz cut hair may have lightened, his suit is sharper and the glasses are just a distant memory on his face.
He still speaks with a pilot's efficiency. He is polite, affable and down-to-earth. But the hard, intense look in his eyes 
answers any question as to how an Aer Lingus pilot from north Dublin ultimately ended up creating and leading 
gigantic IAG, which owns British Airways, Iberia and four other airlines.
As chief executive of Aer Lingus between October 2001 and January 2005, Walsh slashed jobs, restructured, 
created a transatlantic vision for Aer Lingus that the airline is only now fulfilling, and invented a friendlier hybrid low-
cost model that Walsh's part-mentor, part-nemesis Michael O'Leary is only now introducing at Ryanair.
Walsh was back in Dublin last week to launch British Airways' new London City to Dublin route.
**Fearghal O'Connor:How much did you learn from Michael O'Leary during your days in Aer Lingus, and is that 
what set you up for the big job in BA?**
**Willie Walsh:**A lot. I think I learned a huge amount. I think at the time when we were restructuring Aer Lingus we 
recognised that there was a better and more efficient way of doing things. We weren't as good as we liked to think 
and I think we learned to admit where we had got things wrong and where Ryanair had done things better than the 
traditional airlines. I don't mind admitting that we looked very closely at what they were doing and learned from 
them. We copied some of the things they had done, but we were also smart enough to recognise some of the things 
that we didn't think they were doing well. We made sure that we didn't try to match them on everything.
But, yeah, competing with Ryanair is a really difficult thing to do and having first-hand experience of that definitely 
sets you up for understanding what you need to do in this industry to be successful.
I could see O'Leary's office from my office when I was at Aer Lingus. That's how close it was, how real it was. We 
knew what they were like to compete with.
Still a high flier
**FO'C: Are you friends with Michael O'Leary?**
**WW:**No. I don't think we would describe ourselves as that. I think we are civil to one another. But we clearly 
enjoy having a go at one another as well. We can do that . . . we can be pleasant and aggressive with one another 
without offending one another. And I have always been upfront in acknowledging what he has achieved. I don't 
agree with everything he has done but you can't take away the success that guy has had. More than anybody else 
he has transformed an industry. Even Herb Kelleher [co-founder of Southwest Airlines, the world's largest low-cost 
airline] -- and I know Herb very well -- didn't transform the industry in the way Michael has. What O'Leary has 
achieved is unique.
**FO'C: What about your relationship with another colourful figure in the sector, Richard Branson, whose Virgin 
Atlantic competes head to head with BA? Is your relationship with Branson similar to the one with O'Leary, 
competitive but civil?**
**WW:**No. I respect Michael. I respect him for what he has done and I think he has genuinely changed the 
industry. I don't see that Branson has done anything unique. His network is just . . . he flies where BA flies. He 
doesn't innovate in the way Ryanair does.
I'm not a fan of Branson. I just don't buy into the PR spin. O'Leary doesn't spin it and can back up the things he 
says. I respect him for that. I have watched carefully what O'Leary has done. He has been consistently profitable. 
Virgin isn't.
I don't really admire people who are in business consistently losing money. That's not that difficult. I know lots of 
people who have done that and I know lots of people who could do that, so there is no challenge to running an 
airline and losing money. The challenge is to run an airline and make money, and that is where O'Leary has 
excelled compared to pretty much everyone else in the industry.
**FO'C: So is Ryanair's recent transformation and move to launch a product aimed at business people a challenge 
for BA and other big legacy carriers?**
**WW:**No. You do have to give them credit. I don't think Michael has changed. He is still the same personality that 
he always was. But without question Ryanair has changed and that makes them in some areas a stronger 
competitor. But what you have got to recognise is that they are not serving a lot of the key business and city 
destinations that you would need to serve. While it makes them more relevant in some areas, I don't think it 
changes an awful lot.
I think if you are a Ryanair customer you'll be pleased with the improvements that they have made . . . the website 
is better, they are friendlier than they used to be, they don't scream at you with the bugle anymore. I think these are 
all very sensible measures and I give them great credit for the pace at which they have made the changes. As you 
know, I am a big admirer of what Michael has achieved and it is important to recognise when they have done good 
things. But all they are doing is what we said we were doing, so it is nice to know that they are finally admitting that 
what they were doing was wrong and that what we said about customer service was right.
**FO'C: Does the prospect of having to compete with Ryanair on your key transatlantic routes scare you?**
**WW:**What O'Leary has said is very clear . . . he wants to do it and he will do it at some time, but he needs to 
access wide-body aircraft in reasonable numbers cheaply. That's very difficult -- not impossible, but very difficult. 
They aren't out there at the moment.
I first heard him talk about it ten years ago. So for ten years he has been saying he will do it and charge $10. I think 
he will do it. He will probably charge $10, but he will charge a hell of a lot more than that as well. Look, Norwegian 
is out there trying to do it at the moment. You could argue Aer Lingus has already done it in that they are the lowest 
cost transatlantic operator that is out there. I do believe that the long-haul low-cost business model can work, but it 
is not as easy to make it work as it was on short haul because the cost differentials you can get aren't as significant. 
But I have no doubt that Ryanair will try to do it.
Still a high flier
**FO'C: You're known for your strong opinions, even on things that are not necessarily the traditional concern of an 
airline executive. For example, in contrast to many leaders of British industry, you very publicly supported Scottish 
independence. How does that type of straight talking sit in London?**
**WW:**Working in London is great. It really is. I am there nearly ten years and have thoroughly enjoyed it. The idea 
of being an Irishman running British Airways didn't really hit me as much as it hit other people. I've absolutely loved 
it. I've been made welcome everywhere. There has been great admiration for what Ireland has done and is doing 
now in terms of recovering itself. So being an Irish businessman in London is a nice place to be.
**FO'C: You were appointed chairman of the National Treasury Management Agency last October, and you 
escaped Ireland before the mad Celtic Tiger rise and then the huge crash. What did you make of it all, looking on 
from London?**
**WW:**Everybody knew house prices were inflated. I still have a house here in Dublin. I remember considering 
selling it when I moved to London and I didn't, mainly because my wife and daughter didn't want me to. I can 
remember a neighbour phoning me. He had put his house on the market and there were people queuing up outside 
to buy it. He asked me did I want him to sell my house. That's how crazy it was.
Everybody knew that wasn't sustainable. Everybody knew that mortgaging your house to buy a second property in 
Turkey was a risky thing to do, but it didn't stop people doing it. There was an element of madness that had to be 
corrected. It was inevitable.
But what was impressive about Ireland is that, as a country, it faced up to really, really difficult challenges. There 
was a recognition that it had to be done. Compare that to some other European countries where they haven't really 
fundamentally addressed the structural issues that are evident in their economies.
I've talked about restructuring in the airline industry and it is always tough to go through restructuring, but it had to 
happen. It is easy for me to say that from a distance. I didn't suffer the way people here suffered, but I know lots of 
people who lost their jobs and who were living in fear of losing their jobs. But at least people can now see the light 
at the end of the tunnel.
**FO'C: Is Ireland a better place to do business in now than it was when you led Aer Lingus?**
**WW:**It probably is. But it needs to continue to make changes. One of the main reasons I left Aer Lingus was 
because people were trying to convince not just myself, but Brian [Dunne] and Seamus [Kearney, Walsh's two key 
wingmen at Aer Lingus], that we had done enough and that we didn't need to push for more restructuring. But our 
view, both individually and collectively, was that you can't afford to rest. There's always a competitor out there who 
is going to try and be better than you, so you have to strive to be better all the time. There was an element of 
complacency and I hope that doesn't set in.
**FO'C: There seem to be two distinct views of Ireland in the British media -- the doughty survivor and the dodgy tax 
haven. What do you make of that?**
**WW:**I think the tax situation is unfair. What Ireland has done in terms of 12.5 per cent corporate tax, and saying 
that it is carved in stone, is absolutely the right thing to do. For businesses, looking to make investment decisions, 
knowing that you are operating in a stable environment is very important. Changing tax regimes and rules will 
always introduce complexities. I think Ireland has got what I believe is a simple, but generally fair tax system.
It is a model that I suspect other countries would like to copy, but getting from where they are to where they need to 
be is a big challenge. It doesn't mean that everything Ireland has done is perfect, but it is a good tax regime and 
has benefited the country, generated jobs and attracted investment.
**FO'C: It's generally thought that the return to economic growth is what has attracted British Airways back to the 
Dublin-London route, the second busiest international route in the world. Are you confident about future prospects 
for the sector here?**
Still a high flier
**WW:**The market is growing, the economy is growing. Dublin hit a peak number of passengers during the boom 
that I think can be returned to and exceeded. If you remember the debates around the second runway it was 
presumed that would have been built by now. There is great competition here in Dublin. All of the major US carriers 
are coming in here, for example, and the market is in a much healthier place than it was in 2008 and 2009. There is 
good GDP growth - and where you get that, you will get good passenger growth too.
**FO'C: Does that mean Aer Lingus could become a more tempting takeover target for IAG?**
**WW:**You could argue that Aer Lingus has been up for sale for ten years. As Christoph Mueller rightly says, if 
your shares are traded you are up for sale every day. But no, we have lots of other things that we are busy doing at 
the moment so we are not looking at doing anything. We have a major restructuring job going on in Iberia and are 
making huge progress. For us, we want to make sure that we deliver on the financial targets that we have set for 
this year. The next key goal for us is that we reinstate and sustain a dividend payment.
**FO'C: Is Iberia your biggest challenge at the moment?**
**WW:**Actually, Iberia is in fantastic shape at the moment. The restructuring that they have done -- and I have 
never known restructuring to be easy -- is proving to be very, very effective. What Iberia will benefit from is an 
improving economic environment in Spain, which we haven't factored in.
Currently, economic growth in Spain is ahead of where we expected it to be. When Iberia can get back into a 
growth environment, combined with the efficient new aircraft that we have ordered, it will be in a good place. But it 
needs to become profitable and then start to deliver the levels of profitability that will justify the significant 
investment that we are making in the new aircraft. But it's in good shape at the moment.
**FO'C: So you need to see this improvement before you would even consider investing in another airline, such as 
Aer Lingus?**
**WW:**What is unique about the structure that we have is that at the time when Iberia was in the deepest crisis 
that it has ever faced we were able to keep the other parts of the business separate from that.
Traditionally, what happens when an airline has subsidiaries of one airline, rather than the way we have structured 
it, every part of the overall airline gets sucked into dealing with the problem. I think we have done well. We have 
proven that the structure works. It is scalable and if the right opportunity presented itself . . . but we are not actively 
looking at anything at the moment.
**FO'C: So, in other words, what you are saying is that you wouldn't rule out Aer Lingus being an interesting target 
down the line?**
**WW:**We are not doing anything. I am always conscious, if I say anything like that, the headline will read a 
certain way. We are not actually doing anything. We still have plenty of work to do. We are targeting a significant 
improvement in our operating profit this year and that is an environment where a number of our competitors have 
been issuing profit warnings and we are sticking to the targets we have set. We are very, very focused on what we 
need to do.
What we were very clear on when we created IAG was that it was not about the merger of BA and Iberia. It was 
about giving it a structure that could be scalable because we always had in mind that there were other 
opportunities. If it was just about BA and Iberia we would not have created IAG. We just would have put the two of 
them together and I would be running BA and Iberia, which is, to be honest, what I wanted to do.
The big challenge we had when putting the deal together was ''is this scalable?. I said that I would continue doing 
my job at BA and I would run Iberia as well. The guys quite rightly challenged me: ''That's OK, but is it scalable? It 
clearly wasn't. So I think what we have now is a good structure.
We benefited from looking at what Lufthansa had done and what Air France-KLM had done. We were able to see 
things that we felt they had got wrong and avoid those pitfalls, but also see the things they had done well.
Still a high flier
**FO'C: If Bertie Ahern is to be believed, you tried to pull off a massive coup at pre-privatisation Aer Lingus. He told 
the Dail that you and your two lieutenants ''wanted to steal the assets for themselves through a management buy-
out, shafting staff interests, setting off a barrage of criticism. How do you feel now about that saga?**
**WW:**We never even used the term MBO. We were very clear. It was interpreted by everybody as an MBO. What 
we said was that we wanted . . . and these are the exact words . . . ''permission to develop an investment strategy 
for Aer Lingus. Everybody said, ''Oh, an MBO. No, what we wanted to do was to force the issue of privatisation, 
which we felt was important for the long-term success and viability of Aer Lingus.
**FO'C: Did Ahern do you a great favour by getting in the way of that, thus freeing you up for greater jobs to 
come?**
**WW:**Listen, I loved every minute of my 25 years in Aer Lingus. I have great memories and will always look back 
on every day of my time in Aer Lingus with fondness. But I have been ten years away from Aer Lingus now and I 
have loved every minute of the last ten years.
**FO'C: Does that make you a deferred pensioner in Aer Lingus's deeply troubled pension fund?**
**WW:**Yes.
**FO'C: What do you make of what is happening to your pension?**
**WW:**I clearly had an expectation of what my pension would be, but I understand pension deficits and I 
understand -- probably better than most people -- the rules of the Aer Lingus pension scheme, so I take a very 
sanguine view that I am not going to get the pension I had hoped I would get. There is nothing I can do about that.
**FO'C: Obviously, in your position, you probably don't need your Aer Lingus pension.**
**WW:**I wouldn't say that. That was 25 years of my life. And don't forget, I was investing a lot more than most 
people through my pension. What I was expecting to live on in my retirement and what I will have to live on will be 
very different. Yes, I'm in a more comfortable position than a lot of people so of course I have huge sympathy for 
people who planned retirement but maybe now can't afford to retire and will have to look at supplementing their 
pension with some other form of earning. You have to have sympathy. But the reality of it is that every pension 
scheme I know of is at risk.
**FO'C: Is there anything you could have done differently as Aer Lingus chief executive, to avert what has 
unfolded?**
**WW:**No. The investment decisions are made by the trustees of the scheme. I understood the risks facing the 
scheme. I recognise now that I won't get the pension I hoped for. I can cry, but if the money is not in the scheme it 
is not going to be able to pay me. I've had to make other arrangements and hopefully I will be able to afford to retire 
at some point in my career.
Load-Date: October 20, 2014
End of Document
Rules vary about travel to countries hit by Ebola
Rules vary about travel to countries hit by Ebola
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 17, 2014 Friday 8:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 722 words
Byline: The Associated Press
Body
Demands are rising in Washington for the U.S. to ban travelers from countries in West Africa, but the Obama 
administration is resisting and says the screening measures already in place for travelers are more effective.
There are no direct flights from Liberia, Guinea or Sierra Leone to the U.S. Officials say that about 150 passengers 
a day arrive in the U.S. from those countries after making a connecting flight, usually in Europe. Most arrive at one 
of five airports, where screening for fever - a symptom of the disease - began this week.
Here's what different countries are doing about travel to and from the Ebola hot spots:
EUROPE:
United Kingdom: No formal ban. No direct flights from the three affected countries to London's Heathrow Airport 
since British Airways suspended service there in August due to the outbreak. There is passenger screening at 
Heathrow and soon at two other airports.
Germany: No ban and no plans for one. There is no formal monitoring or screening of arriving passengers. Like the 
U.S., Germany doesn't have any direct flights from those three African countries.
France: The government advises against non-essential travel to Liberia, Guinea or Sierra Leone. Air France 
suspended flights to Sierra Leone but has maintained once-a-day flights from Guinea, a former colony. Beginning 
Saturday, temperature checks for passengers arriving in Paris from the Guinean capital of Conakry.
Netherlands: The government advises against travel to the same three nations and urges Dutch citizens in those 
countries to leave. No direct flights. Currently no extra screening at Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport, although 
passengers on flights to and from Nigeria receive flyers with information about Ebola.
Ireland: No ban planned. No Ebola monitoring at airports. Ryanair flies to Morocco but not to any of the countries in 
the Ebola epidemic. The U.S. has customs stations at Dublin and Shannon airports for U.S.-bound travelers.
Czech Republic: Starting Tuesday, medical checks at Prague's Vaclav Havel Airport for passengers who visited 
Liberia, Guinea or Sierra Leone in the previous 42 days.
Rules vary about travel to countries hit by Ebola
Albania: No ban.
Turkey: Passengers from Liberia and Nigeria are undergoing more intensive screening. Those with high fever or 
other symptoms are being quarantined. Six travelers suspected of having Ebola turned out to have malaria instead.
MIDDLE EAST:
Israel: No direct flights. The government plans to ask passengers on connecting flights from West Africa, mostly 
through France or Ethiopia, to declare if they have been to one of the Ebola countries recently and if they feel ill.
Egypt: Airport officials say there is no travel ban.
Saudi Arabia: People from Liberia, Guinea or Sierra Leone could not get visas for the annual Hajj pilgrimage, a 
move that affected more than 7,000 travelers. Stopped issuing work visas to nationals of those countries.
United Arab Emirates: Dubai-based Emirates halted flights to Guinea in August. Dubai International Airport, a major 
hub for global air traffic, has no specific Ebola screening.
Qatar: Qatar Airways advises against non-essential travel to Liberia, Guinea or Sierra Leone and does not fly there.
LATIN AMERICA and CARIBBEAN:
Colombia: Bars entry by any travelers requiring visas who have been in Liberia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Nigeria or 
Senegal.
Haiti: The prime minister tweeted that the UN stopped sending peacekeepers from Africa to Haiti as a preventive 
measure.
Jamaica: Bans entry by anyone who has been in Liberia, Guinea or Sierra Leone within four weeks.
Guyana: Diplomatic missions have been told not to issue visas to people from the affected West African countries.
Trinidad and Tobago: Denies entry to residents of Liberia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Democratic Republic 
of Congo. Others who have visited those countries within six weeks will be quarantined for 21 days.
Saint Lucia: Visitors from Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone can't enter until the Ebola outbreak is under control. 
Travelers from Nigeria need to present a recent medical certificate declaring them free of the virus.
Antigua: No entry to anyone who has been in affected countries within the past 21 days and suspended granting of 
visas.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: Bans nationals from Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Guinea.
Belize: Issued a ban Friday on visas to persons from West African countries.
Load-Date: October 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair : Plenty more growth in Europe Ryanair Growth
Ryanair: Plenty more growth in Europe; Ryanair Growth
Business World (Digest)
October 17, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 745 words
Highlight: Ryanair's bid to become one of the world's biggest airlines will focus on higher-frequency routes and 
more domestic flights in core European markets rather than venturing further afield, its chief commercial officer said 
in an interview.
Body
Ryanair's bid to become one of the world's biggest airlines will focus on higher-frequency routes and more domestic 
flights in core European markets rather than venturing further afield, its chief commercial officer said in an interview.
Already Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, selling over 80 million tickets last year, Ryanair is targeting 
50 percent growth in passengers by 2019 and has placed orders for 380 new Boeing planes.
Most growth will come from increasing capacity in core European markets like Germany, Poland and the United 
Kingdom rather than breaking into new markets like the former Soviet Union and Middle East.
"A lot of the growth is going to be relatively unspectacular in appearance, but spectacular in size," said Ryanair's 
David O'Brien, who is in charge of doing deals with airports to add to the airline's 1,600 routes. In a bid to woo the 
lucrative business traveller, who has shunned the airline's traditional hair-shirt offering, Ryanair in recent months 
has cut fees, allowed extra carry-on luggage and improved its coffee. The focus over the next year is to give 
business travellers many more short-haul routes with at least two flights a day and more planes going to capital 
cities, while the number of domestic routes will increase significantly. "That is quite boring and low key, but that is 
where the real opportunity in growth is to come from," O'Brien said. Ryanair estimates that around 20 million of its 
83 million annual passengers are business travellers and aims to increase that number to between 30 million and 
36 million. In recent months Ryanair has discussed expanding into several markets beyond the European Union's 
deregulated Open Skies area, whose establishment in the 1990s set the stage for the spectacular growth of low-
cost carriers like Ryanair. It has bid for Cyprus airlines, to use its routes beyond the European Union and 
management have floated the idea of routes to Russia and a hub in Israel. But with five operating planes in Cyprus, 
it is never going to be a core offering, O'Brien said. Russia, where the airline may start operating next year, would 
only be two routes to Ireland, unlikely more than three times a week. Israel has potential, but in the big picture is 
Ryanair : Plenty more growth in Europe Ryanair Growth
small, complicated, protectionist and "very, very expensive", O'Brien said. "All of this would be pressing and a 
concern if we didn't see there was sufficient opportunity to deploy our capacity within Europe," he said. "They are 
essentially not material to our growth plans." Instead, Ryanair intends to focus on "old reliables" like the United 
Kingdom, Poland, Italy and Germany, specifically on short, high-frequency routes, many of them domestic. Ryanair, 
which until recently had almost no domestic routes, has built up an extensive network in Italy and this winter is 
launching its first three routes in Poland, where flights per head of population are just a quarter of the level in Spain 
and Ireland. Germany, where the airline has a market share of just 4 percent behind Lufthansa and Air Berlin, is 
certain to see domestic expansion in the next few years, if the government cuts its air passenger duty, which hits 
domestic passengers on both ends of a flight. Ryanair recently launched three flights per day from Edinburgh to 
London, its first new domestic UK routes for four years. It is hoping Scotland will succeed in convincing London to 
allow it to scrap its passenger duty - a move that Northern Ireland and Wales may seek to match. The Scottish 
routes will feed London's Stansted, which has one of the largest short-haul networks in Europe with 170 routes. 
Sparse areas of Ryanair's European route map also include Romania and Scandinavia, where rivals Wizz Air and 
Norwegian have expanded aggressively. Ryanair will this winter increase capacity to Bucharest and "over time" will 
develop in Romania. It will expand in Scandinavia in the medium term, O'Brien said. In Turkey, the most attractive 
market on the European periphery due to its large population and holiday market, entrenched competitors Turkish 
Airways and Pegasus Airlines mean the door is effectively closed. Instead Ryanair will seek to leverage its lower 
fares to take the easy opportunities where "politics and protectionism" don't get in the way, O'Brien said. "We are 
certainly not going to torment ourselves overcoming obstacles when there is lower hanging fruit close to home," 
O'Brien said. (Reuters) For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 22, 2014
End of Document
300 business leaders for Dublin forum Dublin forum
300 business leaders for Dublin forum; Dublin forum
Business World (Digest)
October 17, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 157 words
Highlight: This year's CEO Forum will see 300 Irish business leaders converge on Dublin to share useful 
information, air their views and hear, first-hand, the experiences of iconic business personalities.
Body
This year's CEO Forum will see 300 Irish business leaders converge on Dublin to share useful information, air their 
views and hear, first-hand, the experiences of iconic business personalities.
The primary focus of the CEO Forum is to create an opportunity for chief executives to discuss what they perceive 
to be the major issues facing their companies and Irish businesses.
Picture shows Julie Sinnamon, CEO, Enterprise Ireland and Brendan Jennings Managing Partner, Deloitte 
launching this year's CeoForum, which will be held in Dublin Castle on November 26th.
Over 300 of the country's leading CEOs will hear speakers and panellists such as Michael O'Leary, Ryanair; Anne 
Heraty, CPL; Martin McVicar, Combilift; Conor McCarthy, Dublin Aerospace; Mark Roden, Ding; Mike Lane, 
Modular Automation, and others addressing the central theme of this year's forum "Internationalisation - Rising to 
the challenges". For more visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 22, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Amadeus GDS deal goes live Ryanair GDS
Ryanair Amadeus GDS deal goes live; Ryanair GDS
Business World (Digest)
October 16, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 219 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that its deal with Amadeus to sell tickets through the travel technology group's global 
distribution system (GDS), starts today.
Body
Ryanair today said that its deal with Amadeus to sell tickets through the travel technology group's global distribution 
system (GDS), starts today.
The deal makes it easier for travel agents to sell Ryanair flights and for business travellers to book.
"Our new partnership with Amadeus is a significant development for Ryanair and for businesses and customers 
across Europe as we continue to improve our business and customer offering. As Europe's largest airline, we'll 
carry over 87m customers this year on the largest route network, connecting 186 airports in 30 countries," said 
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs.
The GDS agreement had previously been ruled out by Ryanair's chief executive, Michael O'Leary. However, the 
Amadeus deal now makes it more likely that the airline will in future agree to code-sharing, where seats are sold by 
an airline under its own name on a flight that another one will operate. O'Leary said earlier this year: "I am the 
person who for 10 years said over my dead body will we go back on GDSs. So I have to start by apologising for yet 
another thing I've got wrong at Ryanair over the last 10 years. It's a sign of the change and evolution that's going 
on. We expect to appeal to more and more of the bigger businesses and corporates." For more, visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 21, 2014
End of Document
EU orders Ryanair to repay aid to German airport
EU orders Ryanair to repay aid to German airport
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 15, 2014 Wednesday 2:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 356 words
Byline: SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - The European Union's executive Commission has ordered Ryanair to repay more than 300,000 
euros ($400,000) provided by a German airport to sustain the Irish airline's business, ruling it amounted to illegal 
state aid.
Ryanair says it plans to appeal Wednesday's judgment that the airline exploited tiny Leipzig-Altenburg Airport in 
eastern Germany with a 2010 marketing contract that benefited Ryanair, not the airport.
The judgment concluded that the deal to promote the airport on Ryanair's websites offered no prospect of returning 
a profit to the airport "even in the long term."
Ryanair operated from the airstrip south of Leipzig from 2003 to 2011. During that period, the Dublin-based carrier 
rapidly expanded its route network across Europe by negotiating hardball contracts with small regional airports.
The strategy, which opened up far-flung spots to frugal travelers, also started a long-running war between Ryanair 
and European Union competition authorities over the deals Ryanair struck with local governments as the price for 
delivering tens of thousands of tourists to their sleepy burgs.
In July the European Commission ordered Ryanair to repay nearly 10 million euros ($12.5 million) in discounts and 
payments provided by three small French airports. Ryanair is also appealing that judgment.
In the case of Altenburg, local authorities and investors hoped to open the region to tourism and compete with 
another airport for Leipzig. Altenburg had been a pioneer of German military aviation, serving as an aircraft 
construction and testing facility in World War I, a Luftwaffe training school in World War II, and as a Russian fighter 
base until the Soviet Union's collapse in 1991.
German taxpayers funded the runway's expansion to accommodate Ryanair's Boeing 737-800s, but the Irish 
experienced little success and many delays.
A low point came in March 2010 when an inbound Ryanair flight had to divert to Berlin because Altenburg's lone air 
traffic controller hadn't arrived for work. Altenburg has attracted no scheduled services since Ryanair's departure.
EU orders Ryanair to repay aid to German airport
___
Online:
European Commission ruling, http://bit.ly/1nlIGV0
Load-Date: October 16, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair September passenger traffic increases
Ryanair September passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
October 13, 2014 Monday 10:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 96 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of September 2014 was 8.5 million 
passengers, an increase of 5%, compared to 8.1 million passengers for September 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of September 2014 was 90%, an increase of five percentage points, compared to 85% for 
September 2013. Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to a record 
8.5m customers in September, thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our 
great new website and mobile app, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and portable electronic device 
use on all flights. Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares in every market for our 
83.8m customers."
Load-Date: October 19, 2014
End of Document
Boeing sells 50 jetliner 737s to Indonesian flag carrier Garuda
Boeing sells 50 jetliner 737s to Indonesian flag carrier Garuda
City A.M.
October 13, 2014 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 162 words
Byline: JOHN MCCRANK
Body
BOEING said yesterday that Indonesian flag carrier Garuda Indonesia had placed an order for 50 of its 737 MAX 8 
jetliners worth $4.9bn (£3bn).
The order had previously been accounted for on Chicago-based Boeing's Orders and Deliveries website, but had 
been attributed to an unidentified customer.
Garuda will buy 46 of the fuelefficient, single-aisle 737 MAX 8s and convert existing orders for four Next-Generation 
737-800s to 737 MAX 8s.
Garuda said it currently operates 77 Boeing 737s and that the new order would give it the flexibility to grow and 
update its fleet as the market demands.
Garuda said in November of last year that it planned to add up to 250 aircraft by 2025 to effectively double its fleet 
and meet demand in one of the world's fastestgrowing aviation markets. Last month Ryanair, Europe''s largest low-
cost airline, said it had agreed to buy 100 of the Boeing jetliners, with an option for 100 more planes for a total value 
of approximately $22bn.
Reuters
Load-Date: October 13, 2014
End of Document
Concern rises as Almunia rushes EU cases out of the door
Concern rises as Almunia rushes EU cases out of the door
Financial Times (London, England)
October 9, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: INSIDE BUSINESS; Pg. 16
Length: 718 words
Byline: Sarah Gordon on Competition
Body
Joaquín Almunia is making the most of his last days as the EU's competition commissioner. Recent weeks have 
seen a flurry of announcements, some nasty for the companies involved, others nice. Many mark a welcome end to 
long-running cases. Seven state aid decisions were announced on October 1, one ordering Irish low-cost carrier 
Ryanair and Lufthansa's Germanwings to repay EUR500,000 and EUR1.2m respectively in illegal subsidies from 
Germany's Zweibrücken airport. Yesterday, the commission approved UK government support for the construction 
of a new nuclear reactor at Hinkley Point in Somerset. Last week also saw the clearance of the merger of Europe's 
number one and number two banana suppliers, Fyffes and Chiquita (although that may not be enough to 
discourage the Brazilian billionaires stalking Chiquita).
Meanwhile, there has been a frenzy of activity around the commission's investigations into "sweetheart" tax deals 
offered to companies. A day after accusing Apple of prospering from illegal tax deals with the Irish government - 
allegations that prompted a probe to be launched in June - the commission revealed it was extending its 
investigation into Gibraltar's tax system , potentially corralling more than 100 companies into its remit. And, on 
Tuesday, it moved to a formal in-depth investigation into Luxembourg's tax arrangements with Amazon.
With only three weeks to go before Mr Almunia hands over to his successor, Margrethe Vestager , Brussels is rife 
with rumours of which companies may be next on the competition commissioner's hit list. Details of the probe into 
Starbucks' tax treatment by the Netherlands are in their final stages of preparation. Antitrust charges are being 
Concern rises as Almunia rushes EU cases out of the door
readied in at least two cases in the automotive and transport sectors. And at least one further state aid case 
concerning the UK patent box is thought to be pending.
What people close to the commission describe as Mr Almunia's overactivity in these dying days of his reign could 
have many motives.
On Gibraltar, it is hard to avoid the suspicion that currying favour with the Spanish government may ease Mr 
Almunia's path back into civilian life. On the tax investigations, Ms Vestager said in her confirmation hearings before 
the European Parliament last week that the cases against the likes of Apple and Starbucks were a "high priority" , 
and expressed her commitment to pursuing the path on which Mr Almunia has set out. But Jean-Claude Juncker , 
the European Commission president-elect, was prime minister of Luxembourg for 20 years and has, in the past, 
rejected suggestions that the country is a tax haven. Mr Almunia may feel that he should get as many pending 
cases out of the door as possible before the new commission takes over.
Commission insiders argue that there is nothing unusual about the flurry of activity taking place. Indeed, Neelie 
Kroes also indulged in a fair amount of "scorched earth" activity before her (delayed) handover to Mr Almunia in 
2010. He is certainly well within his rights to proceed with as many cases as he can, since nothing forbids an 
outgoing administration from so doing. Any sense of urgency should also be welcomed, given the large backlog of 
open cases. On some, decisions are years overdue. It is well known, for example, that Mr Almunia has been 
profoundly frustrated by his inability to push through a settlement in the long-running antitrust case against Google.
However, worries are being expressed in Brussels and elsewhere over the speed with which some of these cases 
are being rushed out of the door - as well as a lack of communication with the incoming Juncker-led administration. 
The commission briefed Ms Vestager on the current state of play before her grilling at the European parliament. But 
it has not got her sign-off on the cases that have gone forward since she was appointed. There has been no formal 
handover and none, apparently, is planned.
Mr Almunia's team argues that this is not necessary - and, strictly, they are correct. But the fact that recent 
announcements essentially set the agenda for the incoming commissioner, as well as clogging up the commission's 
diary for the foreseeable future, will impede her from setting her own priorities. Perhaps, though, this is precisely 
what Mr Almunia wants to achieve.
 
Load-Date: October 8, 2014
End of Document
Pilots' strike costs Air France - KLM EUR500m Travel & leisure
Pilots' strike costs Air France-KLM EUR500m; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
October 9, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 421 words
Byline: Michael Stothard in Paris
Highlight: Fortnight's disruption wipes a fifth off expected full-year core profit
Body
Air France-KLM said the two-week strike by pilots that crippled the airline last month would cost about half a billion 
euros, wiping more than a fifth off the group's expected full-year core profit.
The strike by French pilots' unions, the worst in the history of the Franco-Dutch airline, cost EUR320m to EUR350m 
directly in lost revenue, with an estimated EUR150m more as passengers delayed bookings, the group said.
The union had objected to plans by Air France-KLM to expand its low-cost operations to meet competition from 
airlines such as easyJet and Ryanair, calling an extended strike that halted more than half of all flights.
The losses will far exceed the EUR238m operating profit Air France-KLM reported in the second quarter as it 
labours to return to profitability after several years of negative results.
Losses last year totalled EUR1.8bn.
It wipes about a fifth off the EUR2.2bn to EUR2.3bn in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
that the company forecast for 2014.
Shares in Air France-KLM closed down almost 3 per cent at EUR6.51 after the company also said total passenger 
traffic fell 15.9 per cent in September.
Pilots' strike costs Air France - KLM EUR500m Travel & leisure
The strikes were largely inconclusive in the end , with the airline and government officials stressing that it was the 
first time in the history of industrial disputes at Air France that the pilots had given up a strike without a clear victory.
Alexandre de Juniac , Air France-KLM chief executive, vowed to press on with his Perform 2020 strategic plan, 
which includes investing EUR1bn in Transavia, its low-cost operation, to expand it to 100 aircraft by 2017 from its 
current complement of 47.
But instead of expanding the service across Europe as initially planned, the flag carrier will concentrate its 
development of Transavia exclusively in France.
The unions had feared the relocation of jobs abroad.
The unions continue to object to the imposition of separate contracts for those working in Transavia with less 
advantageous terms and conditions. However. Air France has some of the highest staff costs of European airlines.
Pierre-Francois Riolacci, chief financial officer, said yesterday that the airline had sold 28 per cent of capacity for 
the fourth quarter, compared with 30 per cent normally at this stage of the year.
"The group estimates that part of this delay could be progressively reduced over the coming weeks,"Air France-
KLM said in a statement.
It added that it was difficult to "quantify this adjustment exactly, given the exceptional nature of the event".
Load-Date: October 8, 2014
End of Document
Fears over Ebola contagion puts airlines in a spin LONDON REPORT
Fears over Ebola contagion puts airlines in a spin; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
October 8, 2014 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 392 words
Body
BRITAIN'S top share index fell back yesterday, with travel and leisure companies hit by concerns that the spread of 
Ebola outside Africa could hurt air travel and the tourism business.
Sentiment was also hit by a set of poor data, including an unexpected four per cent month-on-month drop in 
German industrial production in August. Analysts had been expecting a fall of 1.5 per cent.
The International Monetary Fund's statement, cutting its global growth forecast for 2014 from 3.4 per cent to 3.3 per 
cent also cast a pall.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 index ended one per cent lower at 6,495.58 points. It was led down by a three per cent 
drop in the UK travel and leisure index on news that four people had been hospitalised in Spain after the first Ebola 
transmission outside Africa.
British Airways and Iberia owner International Airlines Group fell 6.92 per cent to 345.60p, EASYJET lost 5.32 per 
cent to 1,389p, cruise company Carnival closed 6.69 per cent lower at 2,328p and Tui Travel dropped 3.85 per cent 
to 382p. Hotels group Intercontinental Hotels also took a hit, down 3.65 per cent to 2,244p, while Ryanair dropped 
5.05 per cent to (EURO)7.12 The spotlight was also on mining shares after Glencore, down 2.45 per cent at 
331.05p, had approached Rio Tinto, up 0.78 per cent at 3,020.50p, about a merger. Rio rejected the bid and 
Glencore announced it was not actively considering a move, which meant the sector lost some of its earlier gains.
Tesco jumped 3.31 per cent to 182.60p on reports that a fifth executive was to leave after the discovery of its 
£250m accounting black hole, and that private equity firm TPG was considering a £2bn bid for the supermarket's 
data analysis and Clubcard business Dunnhumby.
Among the mid-caps, Cairn Energy climbed two per cent to 183.50p after it said a joint venture had discovered oil at 
a well off Senegal.
Fears over Ebola contagion puts airlines in a spin LONDON REPORT
But Spirent Communications nosedived 21.84 per cent to 77.10p after the telecoms testing group said it expected 
only a small rise in thirdquarter revenues as business in the US and China remained subdued.
Asos dropped seven per cent to 2,061p after investors took profits following Monday's suggestion by analysts at 
UBS that www.Amazon.com could pay up to £50 a share for the online fashion retailer.
FTSE 6,495.58 7 Oct 6,450 6 Oct 7 Oct 1 Oct 2 Oct 3 Oct 6,500 6,525 6,575 6,600 p 6,475 6,550 6,625
Load-Date: October 8, 2014
End of Document
IAG and Carnival slide as Ebola fears hit UK travel stocks London
IAG and Carnival slide as Ebola fears hit UK travel stocks; London
Financial Times (London, England)
October 8, 2014 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 23
Length: 379 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
The first reported Ebola infection outside west Africa meant travel stocks led the London market sharply lower 
yesterday.
British Airways owner IAG and Carnival , the cruise ship operator, dropped after Spanish authorities said a nurse in 
Madrid had contracted the deadly virus .
Investors looking for precedents turned to the Sars pandemic of 2003. Tourism fell 90 per cent in April and May 
2003, the European Commission has estimated. Arrivals into Hong Kong airport dropped by about two-thirds and 
InterContinental Hotels saw revenue per average room in Asia fall about 25 per cent for the quarter.
A Sars-style pandemic on a global scale might cost the travel and tourism providers $1.1tn, Merrill Lynch estimated. 
But as the Sars outbreak overlapped the Iraq war, and because Ebola is not an airborne virus, the readthrough was 
far from perfect.
IAG closed 6.9 per cent lower at 345.6p, Intercontinental lost 3.7 per cent to £22.44 and Carnival was down 6.7 per 
cent to £23.28. Ryanair lost 5.1 per cent to EUR7.12 after JPMorgan Cazenove cut its rating on the stock to 
"neutral" on valuation grounds.
Another broad-based sell-off meant the FTSE 100 ended 1 per cent lower, down 68.07 points at 6,495.58.
IAG and Carnival slide as Ebola fears hit UK travel stocks London
Schroders fell 2.3 per cent to £22.96.
A profit warning sent Spirent Communications sliding 21.8 per cent to 77.1p, with the network testing equipment 
specialist suffering in the US from consolidation and postponed investment among its customer base.
Gossip about a potential cash call pushed Gulf Keystone Petroleum , the Kurdistan explorer, down 4.7 per cent to 
a six-year low of 56p on nearly three times the average daily volume.
Among the gainers, Tesco bounced 3.3 per cent to 182.6p on a report that it had rebuffed an approach from TPG 
to buy Dunnhumby, its data analysis unit. Analysts have valued Dunnhumby at up to £2bn, which compares with an 
estimated £3bn Tesco needs to keep its investment-grade debt rating.
Cairn Energy advanced 2 per cent to 183.5p after the explorer said it had struck oil off the coast of Senegal. 
Although Cairn said the find "may have significant potential as a standalone discovery", investors stopped short of 
valuing it as a commercial find given recent post-drill disappointments such as Tullow Oil's Zaedyus prospect in 
French Guiana.
Load-Date: October 7, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair target 18pc growth at Shannon Ryanair Shannon
Ryanair target 18pc growth at Shannon; Ryanair Shannon
Business World (Digest)
October 7, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 201 words
Highlight: Ryanair plans to increase passenger numbers at Shannon in the 2015 summer season by up to 18pc.
Body
Ryanair plans to increase passenger numbers at Shannon in the 2015 summer season by up to 18pc.
Welcoming Ryanair's announcement of its summer schedule for Shannon Airport in 2015, CEO Neil Pakey said that 
the projected increase in passenger numbers is good for Shannon Airport and the wider region.
Ryanair's 2015 summer schedule will see it operate services to 19 destinations in all, one more than this year, with 
Kaunas (Lithuania) new and Manchester replacing Liverpool on next year's schedule.
This amounts to ten new destinations that the airline will have added to what it operated in 2013. "Ryanair placed a 
strong vote of confidence in Shannon in 2014 with nine new routes and 18 destinations. The fact that it is coming 
back with 19 destinations, greater frequencies than last year and planning to grow passengers by up to 18pc shows 
that its confidence was well placed. We are particularly pleased with the retention of the new routes that Ryanair 
added this year, not least the ones with strong inbound potential, such as from Germany and France. This is very 
important for the region, all the more so as awareness of the Wild Atlantic Way grows," Mr Pakey said. For more 
visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 10, 2014
End of Document
" Viva " airline brand to expand into Central and South America
"Viva" airline brand to expand into Central and South America
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
October 07, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 417 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Tue, Oct 7, 2014 - VivaAeroBus and VivaColombia 
owners, Irelandia Aviation and Grupo IAMSA, have announced plans to expand the "Viva" airline brand in Central 
and South America. Backed by the Ryan family of Ryanair, Irelandia Aviation is a Low Cost Carrier specialist whose 
development experience also includes Tigerair and Allegiant Air while Grupo IAMSA is a Mexican company 
specializing in the bus transportation market. In a statement, the two entities said they are in the process of setting 
up "Grupo Viva" - a multinational airline holding company based in Panama City, Panama. 
"The new company will be responsible for the further development of the Viva airline brand beyond current 
operations in Mexico and Colombia, maximizing cost synergies and operational efficiencies across the group and 
centralizing key management functions," the said in a joint communique. In terms of its leadership, Grupo Viva is 
chaired by the Chairman of the Board of VivaAerobus and Grupo IAMSA, Roberto AlcÃ¡ntara Rojas, while Irelandia 
Aviation's Managing Partner, Declan Ryan, will be a principal investor. Tony Davis, currently Partner and COO of 
Irelandia Aviation, has been appointed CEO while Joe Mohan, who is joining from his position as Senior VP 
Commercial at Copa Airlines, has been appointed President and COO. "We are convinced that there are 
tremendous opportunities for our ultra-low-cost airline model to expand in the region. With our existing airlines 
already well-established in Mexico and Colombia, together with our order last year for 52 new Airbus A320 aircraft, 
this is the right time to establish Grupo Viva," Declan Ryan said. VivaAerobus currently operates a mixed fleet of 
Boeing 737-300s and A320-200s primarily on domestic services to Mexican Tier I cities and leisure destinations 
with its sole international service to Houston Intc'l in the US. VivaColombia operates six A320-200s on flights 
throughout Colombia as well as to Panama, Peru, and Ecuador. Plans to serve Miami Int'l and Caracas SimÃ³n 
Bolivar are currently in the pipeline.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: October 8, 2014
" Viva " airline brand to expand into Central and South America
End of Document
Two Ryanair Planes Clip Each Other At Dublin Airport
Two Ryanair Planes Clip Each Other At Dublin Airport
International Business Times News
October 7, 2014 Tuesday 11:02 AM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 330 words
Byline: Suman Varandani
Body
Oct 07, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 Two Ryanair planes brushed against each other while taxiing on a runway at Dublin airport on Tuesday, according 
to reports. But, there was no major damage to the two Boeing 737 planes.
 The incident reportedly led to minor delays to some flights, a spokesperson for the Dublin Airport Authority 
reportedly said. The two planes -- one traveling to Edinburgh in Scotland and the other heading to Charleroi in 
Belgium -- were reportedly believed to each have about 100 passengers on board. Authorities reportedly said that 
no passengers were injured in the incident.
 'Two of our aircraft were taxiing slowly to the runway at Dublin Airport this morning. The winglet of one aircraft 
appears to have scraped the tail of the other. There was no impact on customers on board,' a Ryanair spokesman 
said, according to The Irish Times[1]. 'Ryanair apologises sincerely to customers for any inconvenience.'
 The Air Accident Investigation Unit of the Department of Transport, Tourism and Sport will conduct an investigation 
into the incident, the Irish Aviation Authority, or IAA, said in a statement[2]. 'Dublin Airport is now fully operational, 
although passengers may anticipate some delays as a result of this morning's incident.'
 Passenger Andrea Cunningham, who was on board the flight to Edinburgh told RTE[3], a local media organization, 
that the passengers had to wait for about an hour on the plane before they were brought back to the airport 
terminal.
 'It wasn't a huge impact to be honest, but you could feel the plane tug and then we kind of just stopped,' 
Cunningham reportedly said.
 [1]: 
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/ireland/irish-news/two-ryanair-planes-clip-each-other-at-dublin-airport-
1.1954519 [2]:            https://www.iaa.ie/news.jsp?i=493gc=99p=106n=124date_from=1999-01-01date_to=2100-
01-01 [3]:            http://www.rte.ie/news/2014/1007/650519-ryanair-dublin-airport/ 
Load-Date: October 7, 2014
End of Document
Ukip poised for victory as tide turns on Essex coast Dispatch: Clacton by-election
Ukip poised for victory as tide turns on Essex coast; Dispatch: Clacton by-
election
Financial Times (London, England)
October 7, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 609 words
Byline: Jim Pickard in Clacton
Highlight: Many ministers are resigned to losing the seat to Tory defector Douglas Carswell
Body
Electoral history is likely to be made on Thursday on the Essex coast with Douglas Carswell set to become the first 
person ever to be elected to parliament under the purple and yellow banner of the UK Independence party .
So says David Allum, a pilot for Ryanair, one of the volunteers at Ukip's offices in the centre of Clacton-on-Sea. 
Like many of the party's supporters, Mr Allum had lost interest in Westminster politics until recently.
"Before I had no voice, I was politically inert for years and years until five months ago I heard Nigel Farage on the 
TV," he says. "At last I had found someone speaking my language."
Outside in the drizzle, three vans drive past - each adorned with the face of Mr Carswell - playing "Jerusalem" at 
loud volume. The rightwing libertarian defected from the Tories in August and is expected to retake his seat in part 
thanks to a strong personal following.
John Tomkinson, a care home worker, who says he sometimes works 100-hour weeks, says his union failed to look 
after his wife when she had a work problem. It was Mr Carswell who sorted things out. "I always used to vote 
Labour but Blair didn't do nothing, he crapped it all up," he says. "I'm voting for Carswell."
Ukip poised for victory as tide turns on Essex coast Dispatch: Clacton by-election
Dave Morton, a pensioner wearing a Union Jack cap, says he will vote Ukip because it represents "Britain for the 
British".
Sheltering from the rain outside a games arcade, Annette Yates, a 47-year-old gardener and busker, says she too 
is voting Ukip. "The Tories and Labour are shut off to real people, Ukip represent the real world."
One in three Clacton residents is a pensioner, the highest proportion in the east of England, and almost 30 per cent 
of adults are not economically active compared with a national average of 23 per cent. For those with jobs, pay 
tends to be low: £11.17 an hour on average for a full-time worker compared with £13.17 nationally.
One opinion poll last week gave Ukip a 40-point lead in Clacton, with the Tories on 20 per cent.
Many ministers are resigned to the loss of Clacton and are saving their energy for next month's by-election at 
Rochester sparked by the departure of Mark Reckless .
Meanwhile Labour is campaigning on train fares, the minimum wage and access to GPs - but there seems to be 
little enthusiasm for the party.
Several miles up the coast at Walton-on-the-Naze, one of Britain's most recognisable politicians is glad-handing the 
locals. William Hague, former foreign secretary and now leader of the Commons, signs people up to a petition: 
"English votes for English laws." He insists momentum is flooding back to the Tory candidate, former Bread actor 
Giles Watling. Mr Carswell has persuaded only half a dozen activists to follow him across to Ukip, Mr Hague says.
The wind is sending cold grey breakers rolling towards the pier. Dean Gardier at the Walton Rock Shop says he 
always used to vote Tory. Now he is Ukip: "Cameron should never have gone in with the Liberals, Britain is in a 
complete mess."
On the high street Mr Hague banters cheerfully with Debbie behind the counter of the No 2 Job Stocks shop. But 
after he leaves she admits: "I think all politicians talk a lot of rubbish."
Mr Watling enters a charity shop where he promises jobs, thousands of them, and faster rail links. But worker 
Susan Giles is worried about the closure of a nearby caravan park and the "desperate" state of the local shops. 
"We have a lovely beach but we are in danger of becoming a ghost town," she says.
Mr Hague and his entourage pile into a van to head elsewhere. "These politicians want your vote and they'll come 
up for two minutes and then you never see them again," she says.
Additional reporting by Aliya Ram
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
End of Document
Lufthansa studying repositioning Air Dolomiti as a budget carrier
Lufthansa studying repositioning Air Dolomiti as a budget carrier
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
October 06, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 338 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Mon, Oct 6, 2014 - Air Dolomiti, based in Verona, 
could be repositioned as a budget operation under the "Wings" plan parent Lufthansa has devised. Citing internal 
company documents, German travel magazine FVW says Lufthansa Group has already tasked Germanwings 
Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer, Oliver Wagner, with devising a possible strategy for the Group's 
Italian operation. Under the Wings concept, Lufthansa intends to relaunch Eurowings as a regional European LCC 
in spring 2015. The new carrier will operate a fleet of twenty-three A320-200s with its initial base set to be 
Basle/Mulhouse/Freiburg. 
While a renewed Eurowings will initially focus on core home markets in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, and 
Belgium, Lufthansa's CEO Karl Ulrich Garnadt has disclosed plans to also enter the Italian market where domestic 
flights are currently dominated by budget carriers such as Ryanair and EasyJet. It is here where Air Dolomiti will 
likely find its new niche, he told the SÃ¼ddeutsche Zeitung newspaper. Lufthansa's Wings proposal also includes 
plans to develop a long haul budget carrier which, Garnadt added, will now use a fleet of seven A330-200s (as 
opposed to A330-300s as previously reported) based out of Cologne/Bonn, Dusseldorf and Munich. Among the 
options on the table are using its Turkish Airlines joint venture, Sun Express, as a platform for the operation. While 
Lufthansa management is only expected to make a decision in December, Lufthansa Group CEO Karsten Spohr 
has said that the German carrier is willing to go it alone should the need arise.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
End of Document
Irish start-up prepares for US launch
Irish start-up prepares for US launch
Sunday Business Post
October 5, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 255 words
Body
Sendmybag, a business that promises to save travellers a fortune on excess baggage fees, went live in Ireland last 
week and has its sights set on the US market, its Bangor-born chief executive Adam Ewart said.
The company aims to transport 30,000 bags from here all over Europe over the next year. It is already up and 
running in Britain.
The service transports bags door to door for EUR 34, a price it says is cheaper than Ryanair and other airlines and 
far less when transporting golf clubs, a surfboard or an extra heavy case.
Revenues to date based on estimated business in the last two years are in the region of EUR 1 million annually.
   We've grown exponentially in Britain, transporting 100,000 bags in the last 24 months,   said Ewart.    But we're 
still really just scratching the surface.  
The company brought forward its Irish launch after Ewart spoke about the business on an RTE radio show which 
was then inundated with calls about the service.
The business was backed by EUR 100,000 seed funding from Belfast fund Lough Shore Investments at launch.    
Positive cashflow means we're funding our own growth at the moment,   said Ewart.
He will spend the next few months in the US setting up an office in New York ahead of the business launching 
stateside.
Ewart started the Bangor, Co Down based company in 2012 after helping his then girlfriend (now wife) with a move 
after university.
In the US, airline revenue from baggage transport has grown from $400 million to almost $4 billion in the last four 
years, according to Ewart.
Irish start-up prepares for US launch
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
End of Document
Inside Story: A spaceman came travelling
Inside Story: A spaceman came travelling
Sunday Business Post
October 5, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AGENDA
Length: 2811 words
Body
Richard Branson is in a slight quandary.    I, I . . .   he stutters quizzically.    I actually can't remember what I said.   
The normally unflappable billionaire is rattled. He can't remember what on earth he has said about Ryanair boss 
Michael O'Leary, yet it's all there in a scathing passage in his new book, The Virgin Way.
   I hope I was polite,   he chuckles, scratching for clues.
Nestled among the pages of the first chapter, Branson brands the Ryanair chief    a hard-nosed authoritarian   and 
declares:    Being voted Europe's least-liked airline by TripAdvisor subscribers is something that would not sit well 
with me, no matter how good the bottom line looks.  
He goes on to reference Ryanair's recent    consumer-conscious   change of tack, but openly questions how long it 
will last.    [It] remains to be seen whether or not this particular Celtic Tiger can change his stripes. I'm not sure I 
would put money on this one!"
The words lose their fervour now as Branson applies his trademark balanced diplomacy.
   I'm glad [Michael] seems to have seen the light,   he says.    He's built a formidable, highly successful company, 
but at the expense of its reputation. But he's trying to turn it around. I do believe treating your staff like family is of 
the utmost importance and that translates to the service offered.  
Even when those staff include ex-offenders (a Branson hiring policy), and the perks of being in the employee    
family   include limitless annual leave.
Does Branson still hold little hope for O'Leary's long-term dedication to the 'touchy-feely' approach?
   I think maybe he's realised [the error of his ways] now and he'll do it better,   comes the reply.
Inside Story: A spaceman came travelling
Branson's speech is now peppered with 'umms' and 'ahhs' and a staccato rhythm. The flow is gone. He's unsettled 
by his memory lapse. The Virgin magnate, worth £3.6 billion, is human after all.
A thunderous siren roars unannounced in the background. Branson is momentarily distracted.    Loud racket,   he 
declares. Another murmurs in agreement. The word 'ambulance' is tossed around.
It's the break Branson needs to regain his composure. He periodically stretches out those clipped airy vowels while 
a murmuring executive assistant grabs at his attention, it's the Branson multitask in motion.
The son of the late Ted, a respected barrister, and Eva, an air stewardess, Branson's poor academic performance 
at Buckinghamshire's prestigious Stowe School, a result of crippling dyslexia, bolstered his drive to succeed beyond 
the scholastic boundaries.
While at school, he ran a music magazine and - the story goes - was told by the headmaster that either the 
magazine went or he did. Branson chose the magazine and, quitting school at 16, the south Londoner turned his full 
attention to the music industry. He hit upon the idea of selling vinyl records by mail order for a fraction of the price of 
high street retailers.
Overnight, an empire was conceived. The teen tycoon graduated to his first music store on Oxford Street, where he 
made enough cash to start up a record label, creatively titled Virgin Records (a moniker suggested by an early 
employee who remarked how all involved were    virgins   in business).
Success came when Branson signed the then-unknown Mike Oldfield, whose Tubular Bells album launched 
Branson's label onto the international market - and his brand into the stratosphere.
During the downturn of the late 1980s, Branson could easily have witnessed a sharp decline in his fortunes. In 
signature bold style, however, the decade became his most successful, with the establishment of an airline, Virgin 
Atlantic - an astounding feat during a period fraught with economic black holes.
   Fortunes are made out of recessions,   Branson says.    A lot of entrepreneurs get going in the economic depths, 
because the barriers to entry are lower.  
Bulldozing into the 1990s, he expanded further into transport with Virgin Trains, and explored unchartered territory 
in communications and fitness with Virgin Mobile and Virgin Active.
But the growth and crippling costs of keeping Virgin Atlantic airborne resulted in the loss of Virgin Records.
It was a devastating blow, but cultivated Branson's new business strategy of    branded venture capitalism  , giving 
him control over a large number of companies with minimal financial risk. As a result, the Virgin Group is now an 
eclectic empire of more than 400 diverse companies - including V Fest, Virgin Fuel, a 20 per cent stake in Air Asia 
and the acquisition of beleaguered bank Northern Rock.
Operating independently with different stockholders and boards, they share the Virgin resources and collective 
knowledge, and, most importantly, the brand.
   Every business operates according to its own rules,   Branson writes in his 2008 book Business Stripped Bare.    
What works once may never work again. There are no rules.  
His new book, The Virgin Way: How to Listen, Learn, Laugh and Lead, is an entrepreneurial tome that delivers the 
billionaire's tips for success. Reading like a pseudo diary, it charts his rise from scrappy beginnings, his struggles 
with dyslexia and his decision to quit school at 16. He heavily references the unending support of his patient 
parents, and his strong bond with wife of 25 years, Joan, and their children Sam and Holly.
He offers bite-size nuggets from his successes, his failures, the cola wars, Virgin Fitness, Money and Trains. And 
while it's a mere restitching of his tale of triumph, it has a digestible structure for those hoping to absorb - and mirror 
- Branson's commercial prowess.
Inside Story: A spaceman came travelling
Oddly, the topic of Virgin Galactic remains under-represented in the book. There's a nod to Elon Musk's competitive 
plans to launch private satellites with SpaceX, and an    uproarious   insider joke for the passengers of the long 
awaited first launch on    how well champagne sprays in a weightless environment  . And that's it.
Historically, the undisputed prioritised jewel in the Virgin crown has provided its fair share of headaches. Born ten 
years ago, the company was set to bring its first moneyed passengers - who've all paid upwards of EUR 200,000 - 
into orbit by 2007. But the engineering couldn't keep up with the schedule.
The date was pushed back to 2009, and to every year since. A new test flight of the rockets in January reached 
heavenly heights of 71,000 feet - although only about half the distance achieved by Felix Baumgartner in his 
balloon. According to recent statements, 2015 is the year.
   For all those quizzing about the delays, it's space travel we're dealing with here,   says Branson, who was 
knighted in 2000.    Actual rocket science! We have to make sure the entire operation runs perfectly. I have to feel 
comfortable going up with my children, and I want others to feel comfortable going up with their kids in the years to 
come.
   As of now, the spaceship has been finished for some time, so too the spaceport. We're just waiting on the 
rockets. So by Christmas, we're scheduling a test flight into space and by next spring, [we'll] be ready for our first 
proper flight.  
The scepticism that his venture will succeed must surely prove exhausting. Has Branson felt like he's bitten off 
more than he can chew?
   We're the first ever company to take people into space,   he replies,    and to put satellites into orbit for a fraction 
of what it already costs. And maybe one day, we'll build space hotels and mine asteroids and colonise planets. It's 
worth biting off too much. We're finally on the cusp.  
Does he ever feel overwhelmed? Does he ever actually worry?
   Not at all,   he says.    I don't worry about anything. If something's going wrong, I'll throw myself wholeheartedly 
into trying to save or correct it. If I fail, at least I've done everything I can do to avoid disaster. And then I put it 
behind me.  
Did the succession of calamities to befall his empire - Virgin Cola, Virgin Brides, Virgin Express - ever cause him 
any sleepless nights? Surely his well-publicised income tax woes and the criticism he received for it, concerning his 
official residency on his private Caribbean retreat Necker Island, resulted in beads of agonised sweat?
   If you ask me about the worst moments in my life, I actually forget them because I put them behind me,   Branson 
replies.    I'm somebody who is very positive and thinks positively.
   The only thing that would keep me awake is ill health, and family and friends . . . and sometimes I wish my wife 
would keep me awake more often. But you know, we've been married for 40 years.  
At 64, is Branson concerned for his own health? Mortality surely occupies a few wayward strands of thought, 
provoked by the passing of his father, Ted, three years ago.
   I think growing older is simply a fact of life,   Branson sighs.    But you can delay the inevitability. I make a point of 
not putting too much sugar down my body. And I get plenty of exercise. That's about all I can do.  
Branson is coming to Ireland in two weeks' time, where he will speak at the One Young World summit alongside 
Bob Geldof and Huffington Post founder Arianna Huffington. His audience will be a pre-eminent gathering of some 
of the world's brightest and best young minds. He's relishing the chance to return to this country, eager to witness 
upward progress in motion.
Inside Story: A spaceman came travelling
   You know how to bounce back from adversity,   he says, referring to Ireland,    and that is a shining example to 
the rest of the world.
   I take inspiration from that. I had many of my own failings, so I, more than anyone, know about fallout. I'm very 
much looking forward to witnessing this resurgence in fortunes.
   Ireland attracted a wealth of investment before, and it's doing it again, with so many companies seeing the 
benefits and advantages. There's so much to be proud of.  
Ireland has enjoyed fleeting cameos in the Virgin story, from the inclusion of a Shannon/Gatwick route with the now-
defunct Virgin Express to the eventual closure of the capital's once prosperous Virgin Megastore.
The retail behemoth, overlooking the Liffey at the old McBirney building on Aston Quay, was the scene of Branson's 
Irish    arrest   in 1990 after permitting the IFPA [Irish Family Planning Association] to distribute condoms under his 
roof, three years before the restriction against the sale of contraception was lifted. He was hauled up in court and 
fined £500, with a warning that further infringement could lead to possible imprisonment. The members of U2 
stepped in to pay the fine.
More than 20 years later, the tragic death of Savita Halappanavar, who died at the end of 2012 from septicaemia 
owing to complications from her 17-week pregnancy, prompted Branson to voice his disgust at the current abortion 
legislation in Ireland. He tweeted and blogged about the country's    outdated abortion laws  .
With pro-life campaigners calling for a referendum to repeal the 8th Amendment, has the enduring debate affected 
his opinion of the country?
He falls silent, catching his breath.    Remind me, what was that point you made . . . I commented on the . . . ?  
I remind him of the Halappanavar case. He interrupts in recognition and regains his flow.    Yes, well, I hope that 
court case we had in Ireland all those years ago, contributed to the law being changed. I think condoms are now on 
sale in Ireland?  
His voice grows tight and he quietly blusters with a nervous laugh.    And we made a point of selling them, for 
obvious reasons: the spread of sexual diseases, HIV and Aids, unwanted pregnancies. Look, the idea of someone 
dying because they're refused to be given medical care is wrong. That's my personal opinion.  
Branson tells me we need to wrap up. He sounds a little harried, but unfailingly pleasant.
Does he have a temper, I wonder? It can't always be so measured and balanced in his world.
   I don't, only because it reflects so badly on yourself,   he says.    It's much more productive all round [to stay cool].  
Beyond the spaceships, airlines and plush Caribbean abode, there's an unreality to Branson's reality. He's so eager 
to present an aspirational outward image that it's as if he lives too rigidly by the rules quoted in his new book:    
Believe in your ideas and be the best  ,    Keep setting new challenges  ,    Follow your dreams and just do it  ,    
Don't give up  .
Doing nothing all day sounds like his ultimate fear. Except he doesn't do fear either.
   I don't really have time to be fearful,   he chuckles.    I was raised by parents who wouldn't let me watch television 
as a child, so I instead climbed trees and rescued cats from them, instead of watching [other] people do it.
   For me, every day is a new exciting day, and I love the variety of what I do and the people I talk to and meet. My 
life is like one long education. I want to enjoy it. I want to do it all.  
*The Virgin Way is published by Virgin Books*
.....
Inside Story: A spaceman came travelling
**A virgin life**
**July 18, 1950:**born to Edward James Branson, a barrister, and Eve Branson, a flight attendant.
**July 1966:**having struggled academically with dyslexia, drops out of school aged 16.
**January 1968:**launches the first edition of his Student magazine. The publication sells £8,000 worth of 
advertising in its first edition.
**September 1970:**sets up a mail order record company, called Virgin.
**October 1971:**opens the first Virgin record store on London's Oxford Street.
**July 1973:**the Virgin record label is born, signing Mike Oldfield as its first artist.
**January 1977:**Virgin signs punk stars the Sex Pistols, cementing its reputation as one of the world's top record 
companies.
**January 1978:**Branson buys Necker Island in the Caribbean for £180,000.
**January 1979:**the first Virgin Megastore opens at 14-16 on Oxford Street in London, remaining as the flagship 
store until its closure in 2007.
**February 1979:**the Virgin Books branch is established, with the Sid Vicious Family Album as its first title.
**March 1979:**Virgin Films is launched. Its first effort is the Sex Pistol's mockumentary, The Great Rock n' Roll 
Swindle.
**June 1984:**Virgin Atlantic's inaugural flight is a Boeing 747-200 called the Maiden Voyager. During the 
government certification flight, a bird flies into an uninsured engine, which explodes. A new engine costs £600,000. 
A few days later, Virgin Atlantic is ready for take-off.
**1986:**Virgin Megastore opens in Aston Quay, Dublin.
**May 1990:**the Irish Family Planning Agency approaches Branson to allow it to sell condoms in his Virgin 
Megastore on Aston Quay in Dublin. He obliges, and the IFPA is later convicted of a criminal offence under the 
section of the law restricting the sale of contraception.
**February 1991:**the IFPA appeals the conviction. Branson comes to Dublin to testify in court. The £500 fine is 
paid by the members of U2.
**January 1992:**Branson is forced to sell Virgin Records to Thorn EMI for $1 billion, to save Virgin Atlantic. He 
later describes it as one of the hardest and most upsetting decisions he ever had to make.
**January 1994:**Virgin Cola and Virgin Vodka are launched - and fail.    That business taught me not to 
underestimate the power of the world's leading soft drink makers,   Branson says subsequently.    I'll never again 
make the mistake of thinking that all large, dominant companies are sleepy!  
**March 1996:**Virgin Rail Group is established, soon to become Virgin Trains, which operates inter-city and 
express services across mainland Britain.
**January 1999:**Virgin Mobile is launched as Virgin's first telecommunications venture. It eventually enters the US 
market in 2002.
**April 1999:**Branson is knighted by Prince Charles for his contribution to entrepreneurship.
Inside Story: A spaceman came travelling
**May 2000:**having already tackled planes and trains, Branson launches Virgin Cars. By 2003, the company has 
only sold 12,000 cars and subsequently goes out of business in 2005.
**January 2004:**Virgin Galactic is announced as the world's first commercial space company.
**March 2007:**Virgin Money becomes the preferred bidder for a takeover of the struggling bank Northern Rock. 
Branson successfully acquires it in 2012.
**March 2009:**the final remaining Virgin Megastores are closed down, including the flagship stores on Times 
Square, New York and Oxford Street, London. Branson admits he kept them open for too long.
**May 2009:**Virgin Galactic unveils its first commercially manned spaceship, the Virgin SpaceShip Enterprise.
**May 2011:**Virgin Galactic dedicates the Galactic Gateway to Space, at Spaceport America, as the world's first 
purpose-built commercial spaceport. It signs a deal with Nasa to undertake research missions on SpaceShip Two.
**November 2012:**Branson sharply criticises Ireland's abortion laws in an interview. Commenting on the death of 
Savita Halappanavar, he says:    Let's hope that some good comes out of the tragedy of Ms Halappanavar's death 
and Ireland's outdated abortion laws are changed.  
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair soars as passenger numbers rise
Ryanair soars as passenger numbers rise
City A.M.
October 3, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 141 words
Byline: THOMAS FITZGERALD
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair received a boost yesterday as it revealed passenger numbers in September had hit a new 
record high.
Ryanair's total passengers last month hit a record 8.5m, soaring by 400,000 compared to 8.1m in September 2013.
The budget airline also saw its load factor, the percentage of seats occupied on flights, increase to 90 per cent in 
September, a rise of five per cent on a year ago.
The rise in passenger numbers meant that Ryanair's total rolling annual traffic rose by four per cent to 83.8m 
customers.
Ryanair has recently sought to improve its customer service, with chief executive Michael O'Leary having said the 
airline should stop "unnecessarily pissing people off".
The budget airline has introduced allocating seating, allowed a second small carry on bag, revamped its website, 
and recently laun-ched its new business class.
Graphic
 
Ryanair has more than 300 planes
Ryanair soars as passenger numbers rise
Load-Date: October 3, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet lifts annual profit guidance after a strong summer travel season
EasyJet lifts annual profit guidance after a strong summer travel season
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
October 02, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 314 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Thu, Oct 2, 2014 - EasyJet lifted its annual profit 
guidance after a strong summer travel season, lower than expected fuel costs, positive currency moves and a strike 
at a rival airline. The company said it now expected to report a pretax profit in the range of GBPÂ£575 million 
(USD927 million) to GBPÂ£580 million, compared with the GBPÂ£545 million to GBPÂ£570 million level set at the 
time of its third-quarter results in July. The company is due to report full-year results on November 18. easyJet said 
its unit fuel costs in the six months to September would be GBPÂ£2 million lower than in the corresponding period 
last year, while exchange rate movements would add about GBPÂ£15 million. 
At current rates, easyJet also said it expected the fuel bill for its next financial year to be about GBPÂ£50 million 
lower than this year, but adverse currency moves over the same period could have a GBPÂ£20 million adverse 
impact. Earnings were helped by strong demand for short-haul European travel at the end of the summer, meaning 
its revenue per seat on a constant-currency basis would be 1.5 percent higher than last year in its fiscal fourth 
quarter. A strike by pilots at Air France is expected to have added GBPÂ£5 million to easyJet's revenue as 
customers switched to its planes, the company said. The airline's low-fares model has helped it and budget rival 
Ryanair weather an increasingly competitive European short-haul market.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair September Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Update
Ryanair September Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Update
RTT News (United States)
October 2, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 369 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Thursday that its passenger 
traffic and load factor for the month of September increased from last year, reflecting lower fares and improving 
customer experience.
Traffic for the month of September rose 5 percent to 8.50 million customers from 8.10 million customers in the same 
month last year.
Monthly load factor also improved 5 percent to 90 percent from 85 percent reported in the prior year.
In the preceding month of August, Ryanair's traffic was 9.4 million customers and monthly load factor was 93 
percent.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to a record 8.5m customers 
in September, thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our great new website 
and mobile app, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and portable electronic devices use on all flights."
The company said its rolling annual traffic rose 4 percent year-over-year to 83.8 million customers.
Ryanair said it continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares in every market for its 83.8 million 
customers.
In late September, Ryanair raised its full year traffic forecast to 87 million customers from 86 million customers. The 
company then said it expects slightly stronger traffic growth in the winter schedule, as it opens new bases in 
primary airports at Cologne, Gdansk, Glasgow and Warsaw Modlin, as well as significantly increasing flight 
frequencies and schedules from Dublin to UK cities, and from Dublin to European capitals.
Ryanair's Chief Executive officer Michael O'Leary then said, "While still too early to be confident about H2 fares and 
yields, the continuing strength of our forward bookings and the improving customer experience leads us to 
cautiously raise our full year traffic forecast to 87m customers,....."
The company now anticipates full year net profit to be the upper end of its prior estimate of 620 million euros - 650 
million euros.
In London, Ryanair shares closed Wednesday's trading at 7.44 pence, up 0.08 pence or 1.15 percent.
Ryanair September Traffic, Load Factor Rise - Update
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: October 2, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair carry 8.5m passengers in Sept Ryanair PAX
Ryanair carry 8.5m passengers in Sept; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
October 2, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 77 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that it carried 8.5 million passengers during September, a 5pc increase compared to 
the same month last year.
Body
Ryanair today said that it carried 8.5 million passengers during September, a 5pc increase compared to the same 
month last year.
That's 400,000 more travellers, it said.
The airline's load factor, an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, increased by 5pc over the 
year to 90pc in September, it added.
The year to the end of September saw the Irish airline carry 83.8 million customers, a 4pc rise compared to the 
same period a year earlier.
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings September Traffic Increases 5% - Quick Facts
Ryanair Holdings September Traffic Increases 5% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
October 2, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) said Thursday that its traffic for the month 
of September 2014 rose 5% to 8.5 million customers from 8.10 million customers in the same month last year.
Monthly load factor also improved 5% to 90% from 85% reported in the prior year.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to a record 8.5m customers 
in September, thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our great new website 
and mobile app, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and portable electronic devices use on all flights."
Ryanair said it continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares in every market for its 83.8 million 
customers.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: October 2, 2014
End of Document
European airports and budget airlines ordered by EU regulators to pay back millions of Euros in illegal 
subsidies
European airports and budget airlines ordered by EU regulators to pay back 
millions of Euros in illegal subsidies
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
October 01, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 549 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Wed, Oct 1, 2014 - Two European airports and a 
number of budget airlines, including Ryanair and Lufthansa's carrier Germanwings, have been ordered by EU 
regulators to pay back millions of euros in illegal subsidies. The European Commission also warned Belgium that it 
may be giving unauthorized subsidies to Brussels Airlines. The Commission rulings come amid a series of 
investigations in recent years into deals granted by regional authorities to attract budget airlines to secondary 
European airports. 
Such agreements have played a key role in the explosive growth of low-cost carriers and their success in 
competing with traditional rivals. The EU state aid regulator told Germany's Zweibruecken airport to recover 
EURâ‚¬1.2 million (USD$1.5 million) in illegal marketing and airport services deals from Germanwings, 
EURâ‚¬500,000 from Ryanair and EURâ‚¬200,00 from TUIFly. The airport, which is adjacent to France, will also 
have to pay back about EURâ‚¬47 million itself in investment and operating aid to the German authorities because 
it had given the facility an unfair advantage over competitors. Zweibruecken, which is in insolvency proceedings and 
is seeking an investor, declined comment. Ryanair, which stopped flying to Zweibruecken in 2009 having carried 
just 50,000 passengers, said it would appeal the ruling, while Germanwings said it was examining the decision. The 
Commission said Italy's Alghero airport on the island of Sardinia would have to recover small amounts of illegal 
state aid given to Germanwings in 2007 and to Meridiana in 2010. However it approved state aid granted by Italian 
authorities to the airport and by Germany to SaarbrÃ¼cken and Frankfurt Hahn airports as well as clearing Swedish 
aid to Vasteras Airport and several deals between the Swedish airport and Ryanair. By contrast, the EU executive 
ordered Belgium's regional airport at Charleroi, principally used by Ryanair, to pay back EURâ‚¬6 million in illegal 
state aid. The Commission also opened an investigation into EURâ‚¬57 million of subsidies paid by Belgium, chiefly 
to Brussels Airlines, which is 45 percent owned by Lufthansa. Jetairfly and Thomas Cook are also receiving smaller 
payments from an annual EURâ‚¬19 million subsidy for the period 2013-2015. Belgium's transport ministry said the 
aid was to create a more level playing field between Belgian and non-Belgian carriers. Other airlines, such as 
Ryanair, operate in Belgium, but are not bound to pay higher Belgian employment tax and social security 
contributions, something the ministry said the Commission had recognized and was planning to end by 2020. "The 
funds are designed to bridge this transition period and to avoid Belgian airlines going under," a ministry 
spokeswoman said. Brussels Airlines said it had parked the funds on its balance sheet, but had not so far used 
them.
European airports and budget airlines ordered by EU regulators to pay back millions of Euros in illegal 
subsidies
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
End of Document
European Commission Orders Recovery Of State-aid From German , Belgian Airports
European Commission Orders Recovery Of State-aid From German, Belgian 
Airports
RTT News (United States)
October 1, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 476 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European Commission has concluded that Germany's Zweibrücken airport and Belgium's 
Charleroi airport received state aid which was incompatible with EU rules and must now be recovered.
These were among seven decisions the Commission adopted on Wednesday following in-depth investigations 
concerning public support granted to airports and airlines in Belgium, Germany, Italy and Sweden.
Also, the Commission has opened an in-depth investigation concerning state financial support granted to certain 
airlines flying from Bruxelles-National airport (Zaventem).
The Commission has approved the state aid granted to the airports of Frankfurt-Hahn and Saarbrücken in 
Germany, Alghero in Italy and Västerås in Sweden.
In the case of the Zweibrücken airport, the Commission found that both investment aid and operating aid paid to the 
airport manager since 2000 are incompatible with the Single Market.
Considering that Zweibrücken airport is located approximately 40 kilometers by road from Saarbrücken airport, 
which had been in operation for decades, had not operated at full capacity when Zweibrücken airport entered the 
market, and was loss-making, the Commission found that the aid to Zweibrücken airport unnecessarily duplicated 
already existing, unprofitable airport infrastructure in the same region. Therefore, the aid cannot be justified under 
EU state aid rules, and gave an undue economic advantage to Zweibrücken airport over its competitors, in 
particular Saarbrücken airport. This incompatible aid must now be paid back.
The Commission acknowledged that the aid granted to the Charleroi airport has allowed it to develop considerably 
since 2002, which has contributed significantly to the economic development of the Walloon Region. However, the 
aid has procured a considerable economic advantage to Charleroi airport and thereby caused significant distortions 
of competition which increased over time, as the airport's traffic was growing. In view of these, the Commission 
considered that part of this aid can be authorised and that Charleroi airport has to pay back the remainder, 
amounting to around EUR6 million. Moreover, Belgium has to ensure that as of now, the concession fee paid by the 
airport manager in exchange for the right to operate the infrastructures commercially is increased so that it reflects 
a fair market price.
European Commission Orders Recovery Of State-aid From German , Belgian Airports
The Commission has also found that certain agreements concluded by the managers of Zweibrücken and Alghero 
airports procured the beneficiary airlines an undue economic advantage which they need to pay back. The airlines 
concerned are TUIFly, Germanwings (a subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa) and Ryanair in the case of Zweibrücken 
airport, and Meridiana and Germanwings in the case of Alghero airport.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: October 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair partners with Lavazza Coffee Ryanair
Ryanair partners with Lavazza Coffee; Ryanair
Business World (Digest)
October 1, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 87 words
Highlight: Ryanair has extended its partnership with Lavazza Coffee.
Body
Ryanair has extended its partnership with Lavazza Coffee.
Following a successful launch on Italian and UK flights earlier this year, Lavazza coffee is now available across the 
entire Ryanair network, as part of an extended inflight menu offering.
In a press release issued today, Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "Following positive feedback from our customers, 
Ryanair is pleased to extend our partnership with Lavazza and we are now offering authentic Italian coffee on all 
Ryanair flights."
For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: October 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Issues Statement On EU Confirmation Of Ryanair 's Airport Agreements
Ryanair Issues Statement On EU Confirmation Of Ryanair's Airport 
Agreements
RTT News (United States)
October 1, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 153 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) welcomed the EU Commission's confirmation that Ryanair's 
airport agreements at Brussels Charleroi, Frankfurt Hahn, Alghero and Stockholm Vasteras airports comply with the 
Market Economy Investor Principle and do not infringe the EU State aid rules. The Group said the Charleroi finding 
affirms the EU Court's December 2008 ruling and brings to an end the long-running case which the EU Commission 
first considered in 1999.
Ryanair said it has noted the EU Commission's decision concerning Zweibrücken airport, where Ryanair ceased 
operations in 2009 having carried just 50k passengers. The Group said all of its airport arrangements comply with 
the EU State aid rules and has therefore instructed its lawyers to appeal the ruling to the extent it alleges otherwise.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: October 1, 2014
End of Document
Air France - KLM may need to rethink its strategy
Air France-KLM may need to rethink its strategy
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 30, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 309 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Tue, Sep 30, 2014 - As pilots returned to work and 
Air France restored its flight schedule to 98 percent on Tuesday Sept. 30, its estimated cost of the two-week strike 
represents more than double the EURâ‚¬130 million operating profit of last year. With no deal in sight over pilot pay 
and up to EURâ‚¬300 million (USD$380 million) of strike costs to absorb, Air France-KLM may need to rethink its 
route to viability. 
The company suffered a loss in 2012 and has not paid a dividend since 2008. Like other traditional carriers, the 
Franco-Dutch group has been squeezed in its long-haul business by competition from Middle East carriers, on 
shorter routes by the low-cost sector, and by industry overcapacity. But its labour cost problem is particularly acute. 
Research by Barclays analysts earlier this year showed that among European airlines, only Air France-KLM and 
SAS had staff costs higher than their fuel costs, accounting for almost a third of total outgoings compared with 
around a quarter or less for other traditional players. In addition, the research showed, Air France-KLM's overall 
passenger unit cost per available seat km, excluding volatile fuel costs, was the third-highest in Europe in 2012, 
behind SAS and Iberia, at more than â‚¬7. That compares with just over â‚¬1 for the best performing low-cost 
player, Ryanair, and â‚¬2 for Vueling, the Spanish low-cost airline bought last year by IAG.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
End of Document
Air France - KLM 's plan to develop low-cost Transavia unit triggering a costly two-week pilots strike
Air France-KLM's plan to develop low-cost Transavia unit triggering a costly 
two-week pilots strike
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 30, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 378 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Tue, Sep 30, 2014 - Air France-KLM's plan to 
develop the low-cost Transavia unit, details of which were announced in September 2014, triggering a two-week 
pilots strike that grounded over half of Air France flights until the main pilot's union called it off on Sunday Sept. 28. 
James Halstead, a consultant at Aviation Strategy, said costly French union agreements on pay and conditions 
were at the root of its troubles. He and other analysts say buying a ready-made low-cost business is a possible 
answer. 
"Air France wants to have some kind of operation that doesn't have that sort of legacy environment... you can see 
that IAG is treating Vueling as a method of providing growth in a relatively efficient way," Halstead said. In the 
meantime, the action by pilots worried Transavia will suck away jobs and erode their own pay and conditions has 
killed off any expansion of new Transavia hubs in lower-cost countries such as Portugal. Analysts doubt that 
Transavia can deliver the EURâ‚¬100 million a year of extra underlying profit management is targeting by 2017. 
Without hubs outside France and the Netherlands, that could be harder. Although pilots are back at work, they gave 
no ground on their demands for a single set of pay and conditions for both Air France and Transavia France - 
something management insisted last week "totally opposes the principles of this model". Some analysts also 
wonder if Air France should not retreat on domestic routes altogether, given Ryanair and easyJet already enjoy 
strong positions in France and want to expand there. "There could be a lesson from British Airways, which has 
recognised that it cannot be all things to all people and has withdrawn from the UK domestic market other than on 
routes feeding the Heathrow hub," said John Strickland, an independent aviation analyst.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
Air France - KLM 's plan to develop low-cost Transavia unit triggering a costly two-week pilots strike
End of Document
Air France - KLM 's low-cost Transavia was to deliver about EURâ‚¬100 million a year of extra core earning
Air France-KLM's low-cost Transavia was to deliver about EURâ‚¬100 million 
a year of extra core earning
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 30, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 396 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Tue, Sep 30, 2014 - Transavia was earmarked to 
deliver about EURâ‚¬100 million a year of extra core earnings before aircraft leasing costs (EBITDAR) by 2017, 
under the Transform 2020 project, or more than a quarter of the total EURâ‚¬380 million targeted, by ramping up to 
a fleet of 100 aircraft. The rest of chief executive Alexandre de Juniac's plan involves returning the loss-making 
cargo arm to break-even and improving the profitability of its maintenance division. Air France-KLM's EBITDAR in 
2013 was EURâ‚¬2.77 billion. 
But Transform 2020 also assumes an overall reduction in costs of 1 to 1.5 percent a year in order to reach a return 
on capital employed (ROCE) of between 9 and 11 percent by 2017, up from 2.9 percent last year. It said it would do 
this partly by negotiating productivity gains with staff, a promise that looks difficult to achieve, at least where pilots 
are concerned. "We refuse to let Mr. De Juniac deliver his 11 percent return at the expense of employees," 
Christophe Pesenti, an Airbus A320 pilot, told Reuters news agency. Nor does full-blooded government backing for 
any future battle look likely, even though the Air France-KLM board, which includes representatives of 16 percent 
shareholder the French state, backed de Juniac's position after his concession on Transavia Europe. During the 
strike the French government, faced with poll ratings and rebellious left-wing MPs, showed more desire to end the 
strike than to put its weight squarely behind management. Transport Minister Alain Vidalies questioned the wisdom 
of the Transavia Europe venture, just a day after de Juniac had defended it at the height of the strike. Hours later de 
Juniac caved in on hubs outside France, eliminating an important route for achieving possible savings. "It is still 
hard to imagine Transavia can be quite as low-cost as easyJet or Ryanair, said Halstead. "Especially if they are 
running it from France."
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: October 6, 2014
Air France - KLM 's low-cost Transavia was to deliver about EURâ‚¬100 million a year of extra core earning
End of Document
Air France - KLM strike toll put at EUR300m Analysis: Travel & leisure
Air France-KLM strike toll put at EUR300m; Analysis: Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 30, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 628 words
Byline: Hugh Carnegy in Paris
Highlight: Rush to return full French fleet to the air after fortnight of industrial action by pilots
Body
Air France-KLM scrambled to get its full French fleet back in the air yesterday after the end of a damaging two-week 
pilots' strike that left questions hanging over the airline's future.
Airline officials said it would take until midweek to fully restore Air France's schedule, which was reduced by more 
than half during the strike. It estimated the cost of the strike at EUR250m-EUR300m, not counting compensation for 
stranded passengers and the loss of potential future business.
That figure would exceed the EUR238m operating profit Air France-KLM reported in the second quarter as it 
labours to return to profitability after several years of red ink. Bottom line losses last year were EUR1.8bn.
Both airline and French officials stressed that it was the first time in a history of industrial disputes at Air France that 
the pilots had given up a strike without a clear victory. The French state owns 16 per cent of the carrier.
The SNPL, the main pilots' union, called off its action, the longest in Air France's history, on Sunday in spite of the 
breakdown of prolonged negotiations. The union objects to the terms under which Air France-KLM plans a strategic 
expansion of its low-cost operations to meet competition from the likes of easyJet and Ryanair.
After backing one key concession to the unions, the government adopted a robust stance, refusing a union demand 
for an outside mediator.
Air France - KLM strike toll put at EUR300m Analysis: Travel & leisure
"This could almost be an epiphany for Air France if it allows management to get on and manage," said Damian 
Brewer, analyst at RBC Capital Markets.
Alexandre de Juniac, Air France-KLM chief executive, vowed to press on with his Perform 2020 strategic plan, 
which includes investing EUR1bn in Transavia, its low-cost operation, to expand it to 100 aircraft by 2017 from 47 
currently.
Transavia operates at 4.9 euro cents per available seat kilometre (a measure of efficiency) compared with 3.3 cents 
at Ryanair, according to Oddo Securities in Paris. So Air France-KLM was determined not to give in on the pilots' 
demand for a single contract for Transavia and Air France. Air France pilots fly fewer hours and have more perks 
than those under Transavia contracts.
Lufthansa faces a similar challenge, with pilots set to hold another strike today. It is about early retirement, but chief 
executive Carsten Spohr has also unsettled pilots with plans for more low-cost Europe flights and for a no-frills 
service on some long-haul routes.
Most analysts were far from convinced that the end of the Air France strike represented a turning point. They 
pointed out that the lack of a deal with the pilots meant it remained uncertain whether there would be further 
conflict.
"This is not the end of the dispute," said Liberum's Gerald Khoo. "Air France needs a new collective bargaining 
agreement with the pilots, and it needs it to include sufficient flexibility to expand its low-cost service within France."
Views were mixed on Mr de Juniac's decision, under pressure from Paris, to scrap plans for three Transavia hubs 
outside Air France-KLM's home countries. Pilots had feared they would lead to relocation of jobs to cheaper 
centres.
Analysts doubted the wisdom of the plan, known as Transavia Europe, pointing out that 5 per cent margins 
projected for it were much lower than those of established low-cost rivals. "From an investor perspective, Transavia 
Europe not going ahead is a good thing," said Oliver Sleath at Barclays.
But the scrapping of the plan, which had been criticised by the transport minister, was seen as management 
weakness. "The way the news came out suggested corporate strategy was being dictated by the unions and the 
French government," said one analyst.
Mr Brewer said: "There is no guarantee that this is the end."
Additional reporting by Chris Bryant in Frankfurt
Load-Date: September 29, 2014
End of Document
Air France pilots call off crippling 14-day strike
Air France pilots call off crippling 14-day strike
Financial Times (London, England)
September 29, 2014 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 17
Length: 357 words
Byline: Hugh Carnegy in Paris
Body
Air France pilots have called off a 14-day strike that grounded half the airline's flights, cost it more than EUR250m 
and was condemned by the government as a threat to the country's fragile economy.
The main pilots' union, under mounting pressure to end the longest stoppage in the airline's history, called for a 
return to work despite continued deadlock in prolonged negotiations with Air France-KLM management over 
disputed plans to expand its low-cost service.
"We have decided to assume our responsibilities by lifting the strike movement," the SNPL union said in a 
statement after overnight talks ended without agreement. It said it wanted to "continue talks in a calmer framework".
The end of the stoppage will come as a big relief to Alexandre de Juniac , Air France-KLM chief executive, who said 
last week the unions were trying to "kill the soul" of the company. Traffic is expected to take several days to return 
to normal; during the strike more than 50 per cent of flights were halted, costing the airline about EUR20m a day.
A second union, the SPAF, said it would maintain its strike action pending a reply to its settlement proposals from 
the company, but it represents only 12 per cent of Air France pilots.
Air France-KLM said the end of the strike reinforced its determination to press ahead with its plan to meet 
competition from rivals such as easyJet and Ryanair by accelerating "without delay" the development in France of 
its own low-cost operation Transavia.
Air France pilots call off crippling 14-day strike
The decision to halt the strike was also quickly welcomed by President François Hollande's socialist government, 
which owns a 16 per cent stake in Air France-KLM . It had been calling for the strike to end since early on in the 
dispute, embarrassed by the damage it was causing France's image at a time Paris is struggling to persuade 
France's European partners it is committed to reforms.
Manuel Valls, the prime minister, said the strike had been unjustified and had "penalised customers, the company 
and the economy of the country".
In a major concession, Mr de Juniac agreed last week to drop plans to extend Transavia to hubs outside France 
and the Netherlands.
Load-Date: September 28, 2014
End of Document
The Week Focus on: Ryanair
The Week Focus on: Ryanair
Sunday Business Post
September 28, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MARKETS
Length: 469 words
Body
If it was an election, he would have likely run unopposed, so high is Michael O'Leary's stock as Ryanair's profits 
continue to soar.
As it is, he only needs to convince his firm's board of his worth; and at Ryanair's agm last Thursday, O'Leary told 
shareholders that he was close to confirming his commitment to remain at the airline's helm for another five years.
Now, with his short-term future all but secured, O'Leary is aiming for    intergalactic domination  .
Not that he is planning a low-cost rival to Richard Branson's burgeoning space tourism industry. Instead, O'Leary 
was basking in the glow of a deal with global distribution firm Amadeus that will see Ryanair's tickets made 
available for sale through travel agencies across Europe.
Between the announcement that Ryanair expects its full-year net profit will be towards the upper end of its current 
guidance of between EUR 620 million and EUR 650 million, and another deal to expand its reach into the corporate 
travel market, it has been a good period for O'Leary.
Earlier this month, Ryanair agreed to buy 100 aircraft from Boeing for $11 billion, with an option to purchase 
another 100 planes from the firm, as the airline pushes towards its long-term growth target of 150 million customers 
by 2024.
The firm's share price rose last week as it also said it was raising its full year traffic forecast from 86 million to 87 
million customers due to the continuing success of its    Always Getting Better   initiatives introduced over the last 
few months.
Both O'Leary and Ryanair have been undergoing something of a rebranding in recent months.
For Ryanair, the new initiatives include a revamped website and a new app, a free second carry-on bag and a new 
service for families. Last month the firm also launched a new    Business Plus   service targeting companies wanting 
The Week Focus on: Ryanair
to cut costs, with benefits including ticket change flexibility, greater baggage allowance, priority boarding and 
premium seats.
For O'Leary, it has been about showcasing a softer, friendlier side of his famously outspoken demeanour. And, sure 
enough, last week was another charm offensive from O'Leary 2.0.
.....
**Good week: Ryanair profits**
At its agm last Thursday, Ryanair told investors that profits will be at the upper end of the EUR 620 million to EUR 
650 million guidance it gave in August, depending on yields in the winter months.
.....
**Bad week: Air France**
French transport minister Alain Vidalies said that Air France-KLM had withdrawn plans to expand its low-cost 
Transavia arm last week. Pressure had mounted on the firm in the face of a strike by pilots, who are worried the unit 
will suck away jobs.
.....
**Quote of the week**
   Being Irish, it's important that we remain humble at all times. I'm just a very humble Paddy.  
*Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Ryanair*
Load-Date: September 29, 2014
End of Document
Short cuts
Short cuts
Financial Times (London, England)
September 27, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 369 words
Body
Could this be a Damascene conversion on the part of Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary? The man who has 
managed to turn booking a family holiday into a clause and catch-riddled process that rivals the bureaucratic 
nightmare of Franz Kafka's The Trial, has decided that treating customers nicely is good . . . for his company's 
profits. Not entirely sure that such a display of selfless generosity and consideration of others puts him ahead of 
Mother Teresa in the arrivals queue at Vatican City airport (Sicily branch) waiting for beatification.
Amid the fanfare that accompanied the launch of Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, there has been a chorus of 
disapproval from online pundits who are often slaves to the beat of the Cupertino group's drum. Complaints have 
focused on software glitches that cut off calls and a tendency for the supersized version of the phone to resemble 
more a banana than an Apple when carried in a pocket. Maybe, instead of giving away U2's latest opus of anthems, 
the pocket busting version of the smartphone should have been preloaded with The Bends by Radiohead or 
perhaps the best of Snap!
Jimmy Choo, the high fashion footwear label that has been elevated to iconic status by shoe fetishists around the 
world, has confirmed that it is looking to float in London. One can only hope that the move does not inspire a 
stampede among fans of the vertiginous couture items rushing to advise their brokers. The blow to sales caused by 
enthusiasts swapping their stilettos for plaster casts and elasticated bandages could outweigh any funds raised. 
Although if that helps to delay or, better yet, prevent another sequel to Sex and the City it will be a blessing to film 
lovers.
Short cuts
While Millwall fans proudly chant that no one likes us and we don't care, Tottenham Hotspur would probably 
appreciate garnering even that level of interest, even if it is antagonistic. The perpetual also-rans of the Premier 
League have just suffered another slip as US investment group Cain Hoy has pulled out of a potential bid for the 
club leaving Spurs to seek alternative funding plans for a new stadium. And the crowd . . . shrugs its shoulders and 
heads home with indifference ringing in their ears.
Load-Date: September 26, 2014
End of Document
Monarch is set to be acquired by Greybull Capital
Monarch is set to be acquired by Greybull Capital
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 26, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 308 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Wed, Sep 24, 2014 - British travel company Monarch 
is set to be acquired by Greybull Capital after the London-based family investment firm was named as its preferred 
bidder. The new owner would invest around GBPÂ£75 million (USD$122.87 million) in the airline, a person familiar 
with the matter said, to help fund its plan to turn into a budget airline to better compete against Europe's biggest 
low-cost carriers Ryanair and easyJet. Greybull would be buying Monarch from its shareholders, principally the 
Mantegazza family, ending their relationship with the airline which stretches back to its start in the 1960s. Monarch 
said in a statement that negotiations were ongoing but conditional upon their successful conclusion, a deal could 
take place in late October. 
The Mantegazza family has invested GBPÂ£115 million in Monarch over the last five years. It is set to make a 
further contribution of around GBPÂ£70 million to the airline to help the deal go through and cover legacy liability 
issues, the person said. As part of its plan to shift to a budget airline model from its current charter flights operation, 
Monarch was in August said to be planning to cut staff numbers by a third and shrink its fleet of aircraft to 30 from 
its current 42. Monarch flies primarily to Mediterranean beach and European ski destinations, and operates tour 
companies under the Cosmos, Avro and somewhere2stay brands.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 29, 2014
End of Document
Cut-price innovation: Politicians must embrace the fact there's no money left
Cut-price innovation: Politicians must embrace the fact there's no money left
City A.M.
September 26, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 26
Length: 502 words
Byline: MARC SIDWELL
Body
MORE must cost less. In his new book Zero to One, entrepreneur and investor Peter Thiel observes that the dream 
of globalisation - expanding the affluent consumption habits of the western middle class to more and more of the 
world - demands we also commit to radical technological innovation in order to reduce that lifestyle's environmental 
cost.
What a difference from the world of British politics, where both sides appear committed to the idea that spending 
less can only mean getting less: Labour believes it must prove it loves the NHS by paying more for it - and putting 
the screws on the City's wealth to get the cash; the Conservatives, by contrast, sometimes seem as keen on 
preaching austerity for its characterbuilding quality as championing the possibility of efficiency gains.
Yet offering more for less is something business achieves all the time: whether it's free newspapers or faster 
processors. Take the introduction of containerisation for cargo shipping. In 1956, loose cargo cost $5.86 a ton to 
load. Using shipping containers slashed it to 16 cents a ton.
A more recent example is the way cloud computing has driven down server costs. According to Timothy B Lee of 
Vox, the cost of running news aggregator Digg's servers has plunged in just two years: it cost $250,000 a month in 
2012; now, the cost is well under $100,000 a month, with five times as many users.
Sometimes the answer is found by providing a slimmed-down service that still meets customer needs: look at the 
explosive recent growth of discount supermarkets like Aldi and Lidl, or the way the budget airlines Easyjet and 
Ryanair are now redefining business travel.
Sometimes it is about using algorithms and machine learning to complement human labour: FCA boss Martin 
Wheatley has expressed his hope that such technologies will help fill the financial advice gap for small investors. 
Cut-price innovation: Politicians must embrace the fact there's no money left
Already, a lifestyle startup like clothing specialist Chapar can act as a free personal stylist thanks to a combination 
of smart analytics and an efficient back office.
And for visionaries like Thiel or Peter Diamandis, founder of the X Prize, setting out to do more with less is the only 
way to build a future that works. The launch of the Global Learning X Prize this week established a $15m (£9.18m) 
challenge to create software allowing children anywhere in the world to teach themselves to count, read and write. 
Diamandis sees a future where traditional models of education cannot keep up with demand as an opportunity to do 
better, not a cause for despair or unaffordable spending.
In an age of stagnant thinking, where low growth is increasingly seen as the new normal, we need to turn the fact 
there is no more money left from a burden into an opportunity. Seen this way, reducing the size of the state is not 
about doing less. It's really the only practical way to do more. Because if you need radical efficiency gains and 
lower costs, you need fewer state bureaucrats and more entrepreneurs.
Marc Sidwell is managing editor of City A.M.
Load-Date: September 26, 2014
End of Document
Monarch 's owners step up efforts to fill pension gap Travel & leisure
Monarch's owners step up efforts to fill pension gap; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 26, 2014 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 24
Length: 715 words
Byline: Roger Blitz, Jane Wild and Josephine Cumbo
Highlight: The Mantegazza family's increased contributions clear way for travel group's sale
Body
The owners of Monarch Group have agreed to make a bigger contribution towards fixing the airline travel group's 
pension black hole, clearing the way towards a sale of the company.
The Mantegazza family, owners of Monarch since its creation in 1968, is to pay £30m towards reducing a large 
deficit in the company's defined benefit pension scheme, according to people familiar with the situation. The family 
had previously proposed a £20m payment.
A resolution of the pension problem at Monarch is close to being finalised, which would remove the biggest 
stumbling block to the Mantegazza family's proposed sale of the company to Greybull Capital, a London-based 
turnround specialist. The settlement could also involve the Pension Protection Fund, the lifeboat fund for members 
of defined benefit schemes, taking a 10 per cent stake in Monarch.
Monarch's challenges illustrate the decline of charter flying - once its mainstay - in the face of competition from low-
cost carriers led by easyJet and Ryanair, coupled with the internet enabling people to assemble their own holidays.
It has fought hard to adjust to the changing nature of aviation. In 1994, 96 per cent of its 4.5m passengers were on 
chartered flights.
Last year, only 12 per cent of 6.8m passengers flew chartered.
Monarch 's owners step up efforts to fill pension gap Travel & leisure
"Charter airlines have struggled to demonstrate their raison d'être in a world where there are bigger airlines - budget 
carriers - that are able to have greater economies of scale and whose services are available to package holiday 
companies," said Douglas McNeill, analyst at Charles Stanley.
Monarch swung to a pre-tax profit of £5.9m in 2012-13, following a £33.4m loss the previous year, but Andrew 
Swaffield , chief executive, has described 2014 as "difficult", saying airlines are putting too many aircraft into the 
market.
His turnround plan for Monarch involves transforming it into a full-blown low-cost carrier. Its ageing fleet will be 
replaced and shrunk, and the airline will withdraw from charter flying and long-haul destinations altogether.
Instead, it will offer scheduled, short-haul flights to leisure destinations in Europe, with a particular focus on the 
Mediterranean, which Mr Swaffield called its "heartland".
Monarch's two smaller divisions - tour operator Cosmos Holidays and an aircraft maintenance arm - will remain.
The turnround also involves the group's workers making major sacrifices - more than 900 are losing their jobs .
Pilots, crew and engineers have voted via union ballots to a cut of up to 30 per cent in salaries and changes to 
working conditions and are also likely to have to accept cuts to pension entitlements.
Jim McAuslan, general secretary of the British Airline Pilots' Association, said his members took some comfort in 
Greybull's proposed takeover.
But he added: "There is a degree to which we are going on trust. The alternative is we fold our arms, and then we 
are confronted with a company going into liquidation, and we have no jobs and nothing."
Mr Swaffield's turnround plan is backed by Greybull, which is willing to invest more than £75m in Monarch.
But the takeover is dependent on Monarch being readied for sale. It means the Mantegazza family, of Swiss and 
Italian origin, is expected to inject £50m to assist with working capital requirements, as well as help close the 
pension deficit, said people familiar with the situation. The family can expect to receive only a nominal sum from 
Greybull for the business.
The precise size of Monarch's pension deficit depends on how it is calculated. The group's most recent accounts 
put the deficit at £158m at October 31, but people close to the situation said it is probably larger.
Employers with pension deficits need to put forward a recovery plan to the Pensions Regulator, which oversees 
workplace retirement schemes.
The regulator declined to comment on whether it was scrutinising the deficit settlement proposed for Monarch. The 
Pension Protection Fund also declined to comment.
Sir Roy McNulty, Monarch chairman, said the pension deficit had built up for some years. "If you are looking at 
establishing a sustainable business, there needs to be some change," he said.
Mr McNeill expressed doubts as to whether it can flourish in a market where scale matters. "It's a tall order," he 
said. "Monarch is a small airline."
Load-Date: September 25, 2014
End of Document
Air France abandons low-cost expansion Analysis: Travel & leisure
Air France abandons low-cost expansion; Analysis: Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 26, 2014 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 463 words
Byline: Hugh Carnegy in Paris
Highlight: The concession is aimed at ending an 11-day strike that has cost the airline EUR200m
Body
Air France-KLM has dropped plans to develop its low-cost airline across Europe in a major concession aimed at 
ending a crippling, 11-day pilots' strike in France that has cost the Franco-Dutch group some EUR200m to date.
The move, announced yesterday, prompted a renewal of negotiations with the pilots, but their unions said the strike 
- which the company and the Socialist government have warned threatened the future of Air France - would 
continue pending the outcome of the talks.
More than half of Air France flights have been cancelled during the strike, the worst to hit the airline for 16 years.
Confirming a decision flagged on Wednesday by the French government, which holds a 16 per cent stake in Air 
France-KLM, the group announced the "immediate withdrawal" of a project to expand its low-cost carrier Transavia 
beyond France and the Netherlands.
Air France-KLM shares were up 1.6 per cent at EUR7.72 in mid-morning trading following the news.
The unions have objected to what they see as a risk of the relocation of jobs from France to other European centres 
and the lower wages offered by Tran-savia.
Air France abandons low-cost expansion Analysis: Travel & leisure
Air France-KLM has some of the highest staff costs among European carriers and is struggling to fend off 
competition from budget airlines such as easyJet and Ryanair.
It said it would concentrate its development of Transavia in France "in competitive economic conditions and 
accompanied by the safeguards [for staff] as discussed in the negotiations so far".
Alexandre de Juniac, Air France-KLM chief executive, and Frédéric Gagey, head of the Air France unit, added in a 
joint statement: "It is about developing Transavia to encourage growth in France and quickly create more than 
1,000 jobs in France (including 250 pilot jobs).
"With the withdrawal of the Transavia Europe project, there is now no reason to strike because there are no longer 
any concerns about relocation. We therefore call on the striking pilots to return to work immediately."
The SNPL union, the biggest of two pilots' unions on strike at Air France, said it had submitted counter proposals to 
management. "Both sides want to reach a conclusion as quickly as possible," the union said.
Mr de Juniac had previously placed heavy emphasis on the importance of expanding Transavia, looking to double 
its fleet in size and extend its operations outside Air France-KLM's home countries. Building up its low-cost 
operations is a key element in his five-year "Perform 2020" plan to return the airline to stable profitability.
"The idea is to be in the leading group of European low-cost carriers, given that aviation is a business where size is 
important," Mr de Juniac said in July.
Air France-KLM has slashed operating costs by EUR2bn over the past three years and also has further cost 
savings in the pipeline.
Load-Date: September 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair chief hails success of 'nicer' approach Travel & leisure
Ryanair chief hails success of 'nicer' approach; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 26, 2014 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 181 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said that treating customers better was starting to pay off, as he 
announced an upgrade to the airline's profit forecast at its annual shareholder meeting in Dublin.
Net profit for the full year to March 31 2015 will now come in at the upper end of the previously stated EUR620m-
EUR650m range, the low-cost airline said yesterday, and its forecast for passenger numbers has been increased 
from 86m to 87m.
"If I had known that being nicer to our customers was going to result in higher load factors [a measure of how full its 
aircraft are], I would have been nicer years ago," Mr O'Leary claimed. "No one is going to be nicer to our customers 
now than me."
However, a significant number of shareholders refused to back the chief executive's pay package. Some 31 per 
cent voted against Ryanair 's remuneration plan, or withheld their votes.
Mr O'Leary will receive an annual salary of EUR968,425 for its 2014 fiscal year, and bonuses totalling EUR783,000. 
The company did not give details on the targets that must be met for the bonuses to be awarded.
Load-Date: September 25, 2014
Ryanair chief hails success of 'nicer' approach Travel & leisure
End of Document
Michael O'Leary proves he's still good for laughs www.cityam.com Got A Story? Email 
thecapitalist@cityam.com www.THECAPITALISTCITYAM.com/the-capitalist
Michael O'Leary proves he's still good for laughs; www.cityam.com Got A 
Story? Email thecapitalist@cityam.com 
www.THECAPITALISTCITYAM.com/the-capitalist
City A.M.
September 26, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 185 words
Byline: GABRIELLA GRIFFITH
Body
RYANAIR has the best shareholder meetings. Despite Michael O'Leary's decision to "step out of the public 
spotlight", he's still good for quips when he gets in front of a crowd. Yesterday's meeting in Dublin was no different.
Tesco was first to get it in the goolies. When speaking about chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs, O'Leary referred 
to him as having come from Moneysupe-rmarket, adding: "Kenny would prefer if we did-n't mention that he used to 
work for Tesco."
Next up, while defending his pay packet, he used Willie Walsh as a human shield, saying he's well remunerated but 
paid "significantly less than an-other famous Irishman".
But O'Leary's biggest challenge was yet to come - the accusation that a shareholder's wife contracted viral 
pneumonia on a Ryanair flight. "I am sorry your wife got viral pneumonia, but I can assure you she didn't get it on 
our aircraft," he said. He's so poite these days.
And anyone offended by the nuclear yellow (un)soft furnishings in Ryanair's planes will be delighted to hear that 
colour is out. We can ex-pect "soft shades of grey" instead. Not 50 shades, we hope.
Graphic
Michael O'Leary proves he's still good for laughs www.cityam.com Got A Story? Email 
thecapitalist@cityam.com www.THECAPITALISTCITYAM.com/the-capitalist
 
Michael O'Leary still enjoys a good lark at meetings
Load-Date: September 26, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair shares rise as airline raises outlook
Ryanair shares rise as airline raises outlook
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 25, 2014 Thursday 3:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 410 words
Byline: SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Ryanair says it plans to carry an extra 1 million passengers this year and has raised its profits 
outlook on the back of wide-ranging service improvements that have boosted sales and filled more aircraft.
The Dublin-based carrier told its annual general meeting Thursday that it plans to carry a record 87 million 
passengers in this fiscal year, better than its previously guided 86 million, and achieve net profits at or close to 650 
million euros ($825 million). That would reach the top end of its previous forecast and be 24 percent better than its 
net profits from the previous fiscal year that ended in March.
Ryanair shares rose as much as 4.2 percent in early trade in Dublin before retreating to 7.35 euros ($9.35), up 0.5 
percent. Its market value has grown by nearly a fifth this year, the strongest gain among airlines across Europe.
The carrier this year introduced flexible and family-friendly tickets, smoother online booking, easier baggage rules, 
and automatically assigned seats - all U-turns from a previous Spartan service culture that customers tolerated in 
exchange for cheap fares and extensive short-haul options.
Ryanair says these improvements have helped to increase the average airplane "load factor," the industry measure 
of sold seats, to an exceptionally high 91 percent of all available.
On Wednesday, Chief Executive Michael O'Leary unveiled a new Ryanair agreement to work with the travel agent 
engine Amadeus. Combined with an earlier deal with competitor TravelPort, Ryanair tickets are now available for 
third-party sale to networks that drive 90 percent of travel agent activity in Europe.
That, too, reversed a decade-long policy of trying to block travel agents from selling Ryanair tickets. The new policy 
is designed to attract corporate and government clients, who have long shunned Ryanair in part because of its 
refusal to provide flexible tickets.
Ryanair's new "business plus" tickets cost moderately more but can be rescheduled for free. They offer no extra 
legroom or other on-board frills associated with premium tickets, but represent a viable new option for cost-cutting 
employers.
Ryanair shares rise as airline raises outlook
O'Leary recently has struck new orders for up to 200 new Boeing aircraft as part of his goal to boost Ryanair's fleet 
to 500 by 2019. He has expressed ambitions to expand Ryanair's route network into Russia and the Middle East, 
possibly through a proposed acquisition of state-controlled and debt-crippled Cyprus Airways.
Load-Date: September 26, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair expects its full-year net profit to be up
Ryanair expects its full-year net profit to be up
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 25, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 203 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Thu, Sep 25, 2014 - Ryanair expects its full-year net 
profit to be towards the upper end of its current guidance of between EURâ‚¬620 million and EURâ‚¬650 million 
(USD$788 million - USD$826 million) due to higher passenger numbers. Chief executive Michael O'Leary told the 
company's annual shareholders' meeting that the airline now expected a total of 87 million passengers this year, up 
from an earlier forecast of 86 million due to what he described as record forward bookings. However O'Leary 
warned that management was "cautious" about the new profit forecast, saying it was heavily dependent on yields in 
the second half of the company's financial year, which runs to the end of March. The Dublin-based airline is due to 
announce its first-half earnings on November 3.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 29, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Sees FY Profit To Be Upper End Of Prior Outlook; Raises FY Traffic View
Ryanair Sees FY Profit To Be Upper End Of Prior Outlook; Raises FY Traffic 
View
RTT News (United States)
September 25, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 286 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) said that it raised its full year traffic forecast, and now expects 
its full year net profit to be the upper end of its previous outlook.
The company raised its full year traffic forecast to 87 million customers from 86 million customers. It now anticipates 
full year net profit to be the upper end of its prior estimate of 620 million euros - 650 million euros.
Ryanair held its 2014 AGM at its new Dublin offices in Swords today, during which the airline briefed shareholders 
on the continuing success of its improving customer experience, and the strong early uptake of its new Business 
Plus service.
The company said it now expects slightly stronger traffic growth in the winter schedule, as it opens new bases in 
primary airports at Cologne, Gdansk, Glasgow and Warsaw Modlin, as well as significantly increasing flight 
frequencies and schedules from Dublin to UK cities, and from Dublin to European capitals.
Ryanair's Chief Executive officer Michael O'Leary said, "While still too early to be confident about H2 fares and 
yields, the continuing strength of our forward bookings and the improving customer experience leads us to 
cautiously raise our full year traffic forecast to 87m customers, and our full year profit guidance towards the upper 
end of our current ?620m-?650m range."
However, the full year profit outturn continues to be heavily dependent on the second-half of year yields over which 
it has very little visibility at present. It will give an update on the third-quarter yield performance at its half year 
results announcement in early November.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 25, 2014
End of Document
Air France Scraps Budget Expansion, But Strike Continues
Air France Scraps Budget Expansion, But Strike Continues
International Business Times News
September 25, 2014 Thursday 4:02 PM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 458 words
Byline: Ismat Sarah Mangla
Body
Sep 25, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 In an attempt to end a crippling 11-day pilots' strike, Air France-KLM said Wednesday night[1] that it would scrap 
its plans to shift the bulk of its European operations to low-cost carrier Transavia and called on its pilots to return to 
work immediately. But a representative of the Air France pilots' union responded that the strike would continue[2], 
despite the airline's concession.
 The strike has resulted in the grounding of more than half of the airline's flights, costing Air France 20 million euros 
($25.4 million) a day and stranding hundreds of thousands of passengers. 
 The Transavia plan is what prompted pilots to walk off the job in the first place: Air France pilots worried that their 
jobs would be outsourced to countries that can pay their pilots less money. Air France, which has been losing 
money on short-haul flights for years as discount airlines such as Ryanair and EasyJet capture more of that market, 
hoped to stem the tide by investing $1.28 billion to expand the discount Transavia unit. 
 It's unclear why Air France pilots' union, known as SNPL, rejected the offer Wednesday night. But a representative 
of SNPL, which represents 71 percent of Air France pilots, said the unions responded[3] with a counteroffer that 
was rejected by the airline. Another counteroffer is on the table, to be discussed in negotiations that resume 
Thursday afternoon.
 Air France-KLM has some of the highest staff costs of all European carriers, the Financial Times reports[4]. 
According to Fortune magazine[5], Air France captains earn 20 percent more than Transavia's and receive 
generous company pensions. Meanwhile, they spend 630 hours a year flying, compared with 700 hours at 
Transavia and 800 or more at Ryanair and EasyJet.
 If the strike isn't resolved soon, some fear for the existence of the airline itself. 'No airline is immortal, and that 
includes Air France,' Air France-KLM CEO Alexandre de Juniac noted on French television on Monday.[6]
 [1]: http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/09/25/us-air-france-klm-strike-idUSKCN0HK18220140925 [2]:            
http://www.france24.com/en/20140925-air-france-strike-continues-despite-offer-scrap-budget-airline-plans/ [3]:            
http://www.usatoday.com/story/todayinthesky/2014/09/25/air-france-pilots-talk-as-strike-enters-11th-day/16195999/ 
[4]:            http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/99c195dc-448a-11e4-bce8-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3EKad59m9 [5]:            
http://fortune.com/2014/09/24/air-france-crippled-as-pilots-extend-strike-against-budget-unit/ 
[6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/pressure-increases-on-air-france-to-end-pilots-strike-
9754017.html 
Air France Scraps Budget Expansion, But Strike Continues
Load-Date: September 26, 2014
End of Document
Air France drops expansion of its low-cost subsidiary Transavia Europe
Air France drops expansion of its low-cost subsidiary Transavia Europe
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 25, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 345 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Thu, Sep 25, 2014 - Air France has offered an 
â€œimmediate withdrawalâ€ of plans to expand its low-cost subsidiary Transavia Europe, as it aims to bring an end 
to the costly 10-day pilotsâ€™ strike. The airline has called on the striking pilots to accept the offer and â€œreturn 
to work immediatelyâ€. â€œOur Transavia project is a 100 per cent pro-France project,â€ said Air France CEO 
Alexandre de Juniac. â€œIt is about developing Transavia to encourage growth in France and quickly create more 
than 1,000 jobs in France. 
â€œWith the withdrawal of the Transavia Europe project, there is now no reason to strike because there are no 
longer any concerns about relocation,â€ he added. The strike started last week and is costing the airline around 
â‚¬15 million a day as more than half of the airlineâ€™s pilots are striking. This has forced Air France to cancel 
around 60 per cent of its scheduled flights each day. Pilots are striking after Air France announced it is aiming to 
transfer most of its short and medium-haul services to Transavia. They fear that plans would erode their pay and 
conditions. Unions had threatened to prolong the walkout indefinitely if management pressed ahead with the 
strategy. Air France has also proposed to further develop Transavia France in â€œcompetitive economic 
conditionsâ€ accompanied by the â€œsafeguardsâ€ already discussed in the negotiations to promote a â€œrapid 
resolution of the conflictâ€. De Juniac said last week that the expansion of Transavia was crucial for the future of 
the airline as it attempts to fight competition from low-cost carriers such as Ryanair and EasyJet.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 28, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Plunge As BoE Head Signals Rate Hike
European Stocks Plunge As BoE Head Signals Rate Hike
RTT News (United States)
September 25, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 506 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks tumbled for a second day in a row Thursday, as Bank of England Governor Mark 
Carney said the central bank may be getting closer to raising interest rates.
Speaking at an actuaries' conference in Wales, Carney said, "With many of the conditions for the economy to 
normalize now met, the point at which interest rates also begin to normalize is getting closer."
Meanwhile, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said Thursday that Euro area economy is likely to 
expand in the second half of this year even though the recovery seems to have lost momentum recently.
In an interview to the Lithuanian business daily Verslo Zinios, "We expect modest growth in the second half of the 
year and continue to expect euro area domestic demand to be supported by various factors."
Downbeat economic news from the U.S. also had investors in a cautious mood.
Data released by the Commerce Department showed orders for durable goods declined by a record 18.2 percent in 
August, after posting a sharp 22.5 percent increase in the preceding month.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks dropped 1.29 percent.
Around Europe, the German DAX slipped 1.57 percent and France's CAC 40 lost 1.32 percent, while the FTSE 100 
of the U.K. was down about 1 percent.
Shares of Ryanair Holdings Plc were up fractionally in London. The airline raised its full-year traffic forecast and 
said it expects its full year net profit to be at the upper end of its previous outlook.
Cairn Energy added 1.7 percent after it agreed to sell 10 percent of its stake in the Catcher development and 
adjacent acreage in the UK North Sea to Dyas UK.
GlaxoSmithKline Plc was up 0.11 percent. The company said that Philip Hampton will succeed Christopher Gent as 
non-executive chairman with effect from 1 September 2015, or at an earlier date if released from other 
commitments.
Bayer AG was lower in Frankfurt. Its group firm Bayer MaterialScience and Bluesign Technologies have entered 
into a strategic alliance to ensure safe production processes and working conditions along the entire value chain.
European Stocks Plunge As BoE Head Signals Rate Hike
Hennes & Mauritz AB was down 4.5 percent in Frankfurt after the Swedish apparel retailer said sales had slowed in 
September due to unusually warm weather in most markets.
Air Liquide SA was down about 2 percent. The French industrial and medical gases maker said it is further 
expanding its relationship with BOE Technology Group with a major contract award to supply BOE's new G8.5 Flat 
Panel Display Device and System Project in Chongqing, China.
Dassault Aviation lost 1.7 percent after its shareholders reportedly approved a plan that allows the French aircraft 
maker buyback up to 10 percent of its stock.
BP Plc shares fell 2.8 percent after a federal judge in New Orleans rejected the British oil giant's request for 
recouping millions of dollars of overpayments made to some claimants under the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill 
settlement.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 25, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Rise On Stimulus Hopes
European Stocks Rise On Stimulus Hopes
RTT News (United States)
September 25, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 607 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The major European markets rose for a second consecutive session on Thursday amid expectations 
the European Central Bank will add further stimulus to stave off economic stagnation in the eurozone.
The euro languishes near a 2-year low against the dollar after ECB President Mario Draghi reiterated that the bank 
is ready to use additional unconventional instruments within its mandate to counter risks of prolonged period of low 
inflation. In an interview with Lithuanian business daily Verslo Zinios, Draghi told that the ECB remains fully 
determined to counter risks to the medium-term outlook for inflation.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is rising 0.3 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which 
includes some major U.K. companies, is up 0.2 percent. Around Europe, the German DAX is moving up 0.3 percent 
and France's CAC 40 is adding 0.2 percent, while the FTSE 100 of the U.K. is marginally lower.
Shares of Ryanair Holdings Plc are climbing 2.2 percent in London. The airline raised its full-year traffic forecast 
and said it expects its full year net profit to be at the upper end of its previous outlook.
Cairn Energy is rallying 2.5 percent after it agreed to sell 10 percent of its stake in the Catcher development and 
adjacent acreage in the UK North Sea to Dyas UK.
GlaxoSmithKline Plc is gaining 0.7 percent. The company said that Philip Hampton will succeed Christopher Gent 
as non-executive chairman with effect from 1 September 2015, or at an earlier date if released from other 
commitments.
Bayer AG is adding half a percent in Frankfurt. Its group firm Bayer MaterialScience and Bluesign Technologies 
have entered into a strategic alliance to ensure safe production processes and working conditions along the entire 
value chain.
Hennes & Mauritz AB shares are tumbling 3.5 percent in Stockholm after the Swedish apparel retailer said sales 
had slowed in September due to unusually warm weather in most markets.
Air Liquide SA is losing half a percent in Paris. The French industrial and medical gases maker said it is further 
expanding its relationship with BOE Technology Group with a major contract award to supply BOE's new G8.5 Flat 
Panel Display Device and System Project in Chongqing, China.
European Stocks Rise On Stimulus Hopes
Dassault Aviation is declining 0.4 percent after its shareholders reportedly approved a plan that allows the French 
aircraft maker buyback up to 10 percent of its stock.
BP Plc shares are down 1.3 percent after a federal judge in New Orleans rejected the British oil giant's request for 
recouping millions of dollars of overpayments made to some claimants under the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill 
settlement.
In economic releases, Eurozone money supply growth accelerated in August while lending to private sector 
continued to decline, data from the European Central Bank showed. While M3 money supply increased 2 percent 
year-on-year in August, faster than the 1.8 percent rise in July, credit extended to the private sector fell 1.9 percent 
annually, the same rate as seen in July.
Elsewhere, the Asian markets closed mixed, with Japanese shares climbing to a fresh seven-year high on a weaker 
yen, while the markets elsewhere showed little reaction to upbeat U.S. data released overnight. With geopolitical 
tensions persisting and the dollar resuming its uptrend on optimism about the overall U.S. growth outlook, investors 
largely remained on the sidelines.
The U.S. index futures point to a slightly lower open later in the day ahead of reports on durable goods orders and 
weekly jobless claims.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 25, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair announces new GDS partnership with Amadeus
Ryanair announces new GDS partnership with Amadeus
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 25, 2014 Thursday 11:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 322 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced a new global distribution system, or GDS, partnership with Amadeus IT 
Group SA, a provider of technology solutions for the travel industry, allowing Amadeus-affiliated travel agents 
across Europe access to Ryanair's route network.
Body
The combination of Ryanair's low fares, extensive route network at primary and secondary airports, and leading 
market share in most of Europe's major travel markets, and Amadeus' technology, will enable Ryanair to further 
improve its business travel offering. This partnership (Ryanair's second GDS agreement) follows the August launch 
of Ryanair Business Plus and a dedicated corporate and groups service, which will allow even more businesses 
access to Ryanair's low fares, saving European companies millions in travel expenses every year. This is the latest 
in an on-going programme of Ryanair customer improvements, including the launch of the new Ryanair website, a 
new app with mobile boarding passes, allocated seating, a second carry-on bag allowance and a dedicated family 
service, Family Extra, as Ryanair continues to offer so much more than just the lowest fares. 
In Cologne, Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary said: "Ryanair is pleased to partner with Amadeus whose technology 
represents a significant opportunity for us to reach a wider range of business and corporate customers. With more 
than 27% of our customers already travelling on business, we are continuing to improve Europe's best business 
service, with the lowest fares, most on-time flights and our tailored Business Plus service. For business travellers, 
corporations and TMCs, this agreement will mean greater access to our low fares and Europe's largest route 
network." Amadeus' SVP Distribution, Holger Taubmann added: "Ryanair is the world's most successful low fare 
airlines so we are delighted the airline has seen the value of working with Amadeus to increase its reach, yield and 
merchandising capabilities. Our technology will enable travel agencies to book Ryanair flights easily and 
seamlessly. For our subscriber partners, this agreement underlines our commitment to continued innovation in 
order to offer the widest possible range of airline content."
Load-Date: October 1, 2014
Ryanair announces new GDS partnership with Amadeus
End of Document
Ryanair profit to be top end of guidance Ryanair Profit
Ryanair profit to be top end of guidance; Ryanair Profit
Business World (Digest)
September 25, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 190 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it expected full-year net profit to be towards the upper end of its current guidance of 
between E620 million and E650 million due to higher passenger numbers.
Body
Ryanair today said it expected full-year net profit to be towards the upper end of its current guidance of between 
E620 million and E650 million due to higher passenger numbers.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary told the company's annual general meeting in Dublin that the airline now expected 
a total of 87 million passengers this year.
That's up from an earlier forecast of 86 million due to what Mr O'Leary described as record forward bookings.
However Mr O'Leary warned that management was "cautious" about the new profit forecast, saying it was heavily 
dependent on yields - average revenue per mile per passenger - in the second half of the company's financial year, 
which runs to the end of March. The Dublin-based airline is due to announce its first-half earnings on Nov. 3. "We 
now expect slightly stronger traffic growth in the winter schedule, as we open new bases in primary airports at 
Cologne, Gdansk, Glasgow and Warsaw Modlin, as well as significantly increasing flight frequencies and schedules 
from Dublin to UK cities, and from Dublin to European capitals," Mr O'Leary told the AGM today. For more, visit 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 30, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair and Amadeus in GDS partnership Ryanair GDS
Ryanair and Amadeus in GDS partnership; Ryanair GDS
Business World (Digest)
September 24, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Highlight: Ryanair and Amadeus have signed a Global Distribution System (GDS) deal allowing Amadeus-affiliated 
travel agents across Europe to book with Ryanair.
Body
Ryanair and Amadeus have signed a Global Distribution System (GDS) deal allowing Amadeus-affiliated travel 
agents across Europe to book with Ryanair.
GDS is the reservation tool travel agents use when making an air, hotel, car or other travel service booking.
Ryanair said the deal will enable it to further improve its business travel offering.
It follows the August launch of Ryanair Business Plus and a dedicated corporate and groups service. This is the 
latest in an on-going programme of Ryanair customer improvements, including the launch of the new Ryanair 
website, a new app with mobile boarding passes, allocated seating, a second carry-on bag allowance and a 
dedicated family service and Family Extra. In Cologne, Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary said: "Ryanair is pleased to 
partner with Amadeus whose technology represents a significant opportunity for us to reach a wider range of 
business and corporate customers. With more than 27pc of our customers already travelling on business, we are 
continuing to improve Europe's best business service, with the lowest fares, most on-time flights and our tailored 
Business Plus service. For business travellers, corporations and TMCs, this agreement will mean greater access to 
our low fares and Europe's largest route network." For more, visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 29, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair announces deal with Amadeus
Ryanair announces deal with Amadeus
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 24, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 342 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Wed, Sep 24, 2014 - Ryanair is continuing its bid to 
win over business customers by announcing a deal with Amadeus to sell seats through the technology company's 
network of travel agents. Europe's largest low-cost carrier has ditched charges for checked-in bags on some fares, 
offered free flight changes and fast-track passage through airport security in an attempt to attract business 
passengers who have tended to shun the no-frills airline. Ryanair has for years sold tickets exclusively through its 
website, but chief executive Michael O'Leary said it would need additional global distribution channels to reach what 
he described as old-style business class customers in Europe. 
"In North America, people don't want to waste time in business lounges or drinking bad champagne at seven 
o'clock in the morning. They want to get to the airport, get through it quickly and go do their business," O'Leary told 
a news conference in Germany. "Europe is going to move in that direction in the next five years, but we need 
Amadeus's help to make Ryanair visible to GDS agents and to GDS consumers whose wives and children might be 
on the Ryanair website, but they won't be. It's the way we broaden Ryanair's appeal." The new business travel 
strategy is part of the Irish airline's plans to almost double passenger numbers from 82 million a year to 150 million 
over the next decade. The agreement with Amadeus is the second distribution deal Ryanair has signed this year 
after returning to the GDS space for the first time in more than a decade by partnering with distribution services 
company Travelport in March.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 29, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair signs GDS deal with Amadeus
Ryanair signs GDS deal with Amadeus
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 24, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 268 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Wed, Sep 24, 2014 - Ryanair has announced it will 
partner with GDS firm Amadeus to distribute the airlineâ€™s fares and full ancillary services. From November 1 
Ryanairâ€™s content will be available via Amadeus for the first time in more than 10 years. It will also include 
Ryanairâ€™s new Business Plus fares, which include flexible ticket changes, a 20kg baggage allowance, fast-track 
at airports, priority boarding and premium seating. Ryanair CEO Michael Oâ€™Leary said the deal is 
â€œindicativeâ€ of the way Ryanair is changing and how it is increasing its focus on business passengers. "We are 
delighted to have signed the deal with Amadeus and the deal will play a major role in our expansion in Europe and 
especially in Germany," said O'Leary. "With more than 27% of our customers already travelling on business, we are 
continuing to improve Europeâ€™s best business service. For business travellers, corporations and TMCs, this 
agreement will mean greater access to our low fares and Europeâ€™s largest route network," he added. The deal 
comes six months after Ryanair announced plans to sell fares and ancillary services through GDS provider 
Travelport.
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair boss Oâ€™Leary says Air France strike â€˜wonderfulâ€™ for low-cost carriers
Ryanair boss Oâ€™Leary says Air France strike â€˜wonderfulâ€™ for low-
cost carriers
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 24, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 539 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Wed, Sep 24, 2014 - Ryanair CEO Michael 
Oâ€™Leary has described the on-going Air France pilots strike as a â€œwonderful bonusâ€ for low-cost carriers. 
Speaking at a press conference in Germany, where he unveiled the airlineâ€™s plans to partner with GDS firm 
Amadeus, Oâ€™Leary said the problems legacy carriers are having at rolling-out low-cost subsidiaries can only be 
a benefit to Ryanair. Air France pilots are striking after the airline announced it is aiming to transfer most of its short 
and medium-haul services to Transavia â€“ a move unions claim will affect working and pay conditions. â€œThe 
strike has been a wonderful bonus for low-cost airlines,â€ said Oâ€™Leary. 
â€œI particularly welcomed [Air France CEO] Alexandre De Juniacâ€™s solution last week, in typical French 
fashion, that they would concede and cave into the unions and decide not to expand [low-cost airline] Transavia 
until the New Year. â€œWe will then probably see that â€˜no growthâ€™ period extended for another year. With 
competitors like that itâ€™s not hard to see why Ryanair is growing so quickly across Europe.â€ Speaking in 
Cologne, Oâ€™Leary announced plans to grow its business in Germany, where it has previously failed to gain high 
passenger volume due to competitors such as Lufthansa and Air Berlin. â€œOne of the reasons weâ€™re 
expanding so quickly in Germany is because Air Berlin is continuing to cut back on short-haul European 
destinations and focus more on Gulf routes. There is also Lufthansa that has some bizarre plan about establishing 
a new low-fare airline. Unfortunately [Lufthansa] started with a high-fare airline called Germanwings and theyâ€™ll 
need to do a lot more than call it that and paint it yellow to make it a low-cost carrier. â€œAs we expand more 
rapidly in Germany we will start to take more traffic away from Lufthansa as people are fed up with their high-fares, 
frequent strikes and the high-fare subsidiary. â€œThe problem for legacy carriers is the more they are dealing with 
legacy issues, such as unions who donâ€™t see the way forward, the harder it will be to set up a subsidiary and 
call it a low-cost airline. This will only help us grow in Europe," O'Leary added. Earlier today Ryanair announced 
plans that it would be partnering with Amadeus to distribute all of its fares and full ancillary content. Oâ€™Leary, 
who had previously said he would never work with GDSs or travel agents again, said if the airline is going to expand 
it must work closer with the business travel industry. â€œI expect over time we will convert half of the current 27% 
of Ryanairâ€™s business travellers to business plus, and the majority of these will come through improved 
relationships with corporates and GDSs and deals like the one with Amadeus makes us more visible.â€
ZZ
Ryanair boss Oâ€™Leary says Air France strike â€˜wonderfulâ€™ for low-cost carriers
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Announces GDS Partnership With Amadeus - Quick Facts
Ryanair Announces GDS Partnership With Amadeus - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
September 24, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 165 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY), Europe's low fares airline, announced a GDS partnership with 
Amadeus, Europe's leading provider of advanced technology solutions for the global travel industry, allowing 
Amadeus-affiliated travel agents across Europe access to Ryanair's low fares and Europe's largest route network.
Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary said: "Ryanair is pleased to partner with Amadeus whose technology represents a 
significant opportunity for us to reach a wider range of business and corporate customers. With more than 27% of 
our customers already travelling on business, we are continuing to improve Europe's best business service, with the 
lowest fares, most on-time flights and our tailored Business Plus service. For business travellers, corporations and 
TMCs, this agreement will mean greater access to our low fares and Europe's largest route network."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 24, 2014
End of Document
Monarch Greybull bid preferred
Monarch; Greybull bid preferred
Financial Times (London, England)
September 24, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 22
Length: 115 words
Byline: Roger Blitz
Body
Greybull Capital was yesterday named as preferred bidder to acquire Monarch Group, promising a £75m-plus 
investment to help the travel business transform itself into a low-cost airline .
The two parties said they hoped to see through Greybull's purchase of the business from the Swiss-Italian 
Mantegazza family towards the end of next month. Greybull, a London-based specialist in turnrounds of 
underperforming companies, said it was undaunted at the prospect of taking on the likes of Ryanair and easyJet.
Marc Meyohas, founder of Greybull along with Richard Perlhagen, said: "We need to do three things [at Monarch] - 
run a business, have a low-cost base and have the right fleet."
Roger Blitz
Load-Date: September 23, 2014
End of Document
Boeing promotes 737-derived C-40A in Africa As Boeing C-17 production winds down next year, company 
officials have revived a global marketing campaign to sell a....
Boeing promotes 737-derived C-40A in Africa; As Boeing C-17 production 
winds down next year, company officials have revived a global marketing 
campaign to sell a military version of the 737-based Boeing Business Jet 
that can haul passengers and cargo.
Flight International
September 23, 2014
Copyright 2014 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL
Length: 452 words
Body
As Boeing C-17 production winds down next year, company officials have revived a global marketing campaign to 
sell a military version of the 737-based Boeing Business Jet that can haul passengers and cargo.
The C-40A Clipper entered service in 2001 with the US Navy, with 13 delivered to date. The commercial version, 
designated the 737-700C, has also been ordered by three airlines, with three delivered to date.
Now Boeing is marketing the military variant as an alternative to the Lockheed Martin C-130J Hercules in Africa and 
other developing markets, says Paul Oliver, vice-president of Boeing International for the Middle East and Africa.
"This is kind of our C-40A coming out party," Oliver says.
It revives a military mobility product line-up even as C-17 production is scheduled to shut down in 2015. Asked if the 
new push on the C-40A represents Boeing's post-C-17 strategy for the mobility market, Oliver agrees.
 I think that's probably a fair statement," he says.  We're not exiting the mobility market."
Boeing announced the new C-40A campaign at the Africa Aerospace and Defence show. Host nation South Africa 
is considering the Airbus A400M Atlas and the C-130J for a long-delayed acquisition programme.
The C-40A, with an installed forward cargo door, can carry 121 passengers for transport missions or eight pallets 
on a cargo mission. The cabin can also be configured to carry 70 passengers and three pallets, with a maximum 
range of 3,200nm (5,930km).
Boeing derived the C-40A design from the BBJ platform, which combines the fuselage of the 737-700 and the wing 
of the 737-800. It added the forward cargo door and a Class C forward cargo hold to the C-40A.
Boeing promotes 737-derived C-40A in Africa As Boeing C-17 production winds down next year, company 
officials have revived a global marketing campaign to sell a....
Oliver concedes the C-40A is not a tactical airlifter, so it is unable to land on unimproved runways or perform aerial 
drops of cargo or paratroops.
A list price has not been set, but Oliver estimates it wall fall within a range of $80-$85 million. In addition to military 
customers, Boeing is also marketing the aircraft to commercial operators that could provide airlifts to governments 
as a service, he says.
Although it replaces the C-17A as Boeing's primary mobility product for sale after next year, the C-40A itself has a 
short shelf life.
Last week, Ryanair disclosed that it would take delivery of the last next-generation 737 aircraft from Boeing's 
production line in the second quarter of 2019.
Boeing will begin phasing the 737 Max family into production in 2017, replacing the 737NG family completely before 
the end of the decade.
So far, Boeing has no announced plans to replace the version of the BBJ based on the fuselage of the 737-700 and 
the wing of the 737-800, meaning the C-40A's production life is scheduled to end in mid-2019.
Load-Date: September 30, 2014
End of Document
Boeing promotes 737-derived C-40A in Africa As Boeing C-17 production winds down next year, company 
officials have revived a global marketing campaign to sell a....
Boeing promotes 737-derived C-40A in Africa; As Boeing C-17 production 
winds down next year, company officials have revived a global marketing 
campaign to sell a military version of the 737-based Boeing Business Jet 
that can haul passengers and cargo.
Flight International
September 23, 2014
Copyright 2014 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL
Length: 452 words
Body
As Boeing C-17 production winds down next year, company officials have revived a global marketing campaign to 
sell a military version of the 737-based Boeing Business Jet that can haul passengers and cargo.
The C-40A Clipper entered service in 2001 with the US Navy, with 13 delivered to date. The commercial version, 
designated the 737-700C, has also been ordered by three airlines, with three delivered to date.
Now Boeing is marketing the military variant as an alternative to the Lockheed Martin C-130J Hercules in Africa and 
other developing markets, says Paul Oliver, vice-president of Boeing International for the Middle East and Africa.
"This is kind of our C-40A coming out party," Oliver says.
It revives a military mobility product line-up even as C-17 production is scheduled to shut down in 2015. Asked if the 
new push on the C-40A represents Boeing's post-C-17 strategy for the mobility market, Oliver agrees.
 I think that's probably a fair statement," he says.  We're not exiting the mobility market."
Boeing announced the new C-40A campaign at the Africa Aerospace and Defence show. Host nation South Africa 
is considering the Airbus A400M Atlas and the C-130J for a long-delayed acquisition programme.
The C-40A, with an installed forward cargo door, can carry 121 passengers for transport missions or eight pallets 
on a cargo mission. The cabin can also be configured to carry 70 passengers and three pallets, with a maximum 
range of 3,200nm (5,930km).
Boeing derived the C-40A design from the BBJ platform, which combines the fuselage of the 737-700 and the wing 
of the 737-800. It added the forward cargo door and a Class C forward cargo hold to the C-40A.
Boeing promotes 737-derived C-40A in Africa As Boeing C-17 production winds down next year, company 
officials have revived a global marketing campaign to sell a....
Oliver concedes the C-40A is not a tactical airlifter, so it is unable to land on unimproved runways or perform aerial 
drops of cargo or paratroops.
A list price has not been set, but Oliver estimates it wall fall within a range of $80-$85 million. In addition to military 
customers, Boeing is also marketing the aircraft to commercial operators that could provide airlifts to governments 
as a service, he says.
Although it replaces the C-17A as Boeing's primary mobility product for sale after next year, the C-40A itself has a 
short shelf life.
Last week, Ryanair disclosed that it would take delivery of the last next-generation 737 aircraft from Boeing's 
production line in the second quarter of 2019.
Boeing will begin phasing the 737 Max family into production in 2017, replacing the 737NG family completely before 
the end of the decade.
So far, Boeing has no announced plans to replace the version of the BBJ based on the fuselage of the 737-700 and 
the wing of the 737-800, meaning the C-40A's production life is scheduled to end in mid-2019.
Load-Date: October 13, 2014
End of Document
Air France -KLM in effort to end strike 'disaster' Travel & leisure
Air France-KLM in effort to end strike 'disaster'; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 23, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 378 words
Byline: Michael Stothard in Paris
Body
The chief executive of Air France-KLMyesterday made concessions to unions in an effort to bring an end to a 
"disastrous" strike that has grounded thousands of Air France flights.
Alexandre de Juniac said he was stopping the expansion of the Franco-Dutch airline group's low-cost Transavia 
unit outside France and the Netherlands - part of its strategic plan - until the end of the year to secure time to 
negotiate deals with pilots' unions.
The unions object to how pilots are paid less at Transavia compared to Air France's mainline business.
Mr de Juniac's concessions highlight the problems faced by several European flag carriers seeking to restructure 
operations to compete with dominant budget airlines led by easyJet and Ryanair.
Reeling from a strike that began last week, Mr de Juniac said yesterday he hoped his proposals would "restore 
calm within the company and end the strike, which has lasted too long".
Earlier he told Le Monde that the strike was "deplorable for Air France customers [and] disastrous for the company 
as it starts to get back on its feet".
Mr de Juniac announced this month that Air-France KLM was planning to more than double its Transavia fleet 
across Europe to 100 by 2017, including new bases in Germany and Portugal.
Air France -KLM in effort to end strike 'disaster' Travel & leisure
The pilots' unions are concerned that Transavia's expansion outside home markets will come at the expense of 
French jobs.
The strike, entering its second week, has affected more than half of Air France's flights since last Monday. It is 
costing Air France-KLM an estimated EUR20m a day and is the most disruptive action suffered by Air France in 16 
years.
Mr de Juniac said he was determined that the growth of Transavia continue and that an agreement be reached with 
trade unions.
"To remain in the race in Europe, we have no alternative but to rapidly expand Transavia," he said.
He warned he would halt the development of Transavia in France and expand the unit elsewhere in Europe if no 
agreement was reached with the unions.
The French government once again yesterday called for a quick end to the strike.
SNPL, the main pilots' union, said over the weekend that it had extended strike action to the end of this week.
SPAF, a second pilots' union, said it would strike until tomorrow, with an option on a further extension.
Load-Date: September 22, 2014
End of Document
Aer Lingus CEO is hopeful that rival Ryanair will begin its divestiture of its stock in 2015
Aer Lingus CEO is hopeful that rival Ryanair will begin its divestiture of its 
stock in 2015
AirGuide Business & AirGuideBusiness.com
September 22, 2014
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Business & Industry Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 330 words
Body
New York (AirGuideBusiness - Business & Industry Features) Mon, Sep 22, 2014 - Aer Lingus CEO Christoph 
Mueller says his airline is hopeful that rival Ryanair will begin its divestiture from the Irish carrier over the course of 
next year. â€œWe appreciate the fact that Ryanair has to sell down its share to 5 per cent because it is our main 
competitor,â€ Mueller told Abu Dhabi's National newspaper. â€œWe all really hope that the issue of Ryanair would 
be done in the course of 2015. But when exactly in 2015, it is very difficult to say.â€ In March, the UK Competition 
Commission (CC) concluded that Ryanair's minority shareholding in Aer Lingus (29.82%) "gave it material influence 
over Aer Lingus and resulted in a substantial lessening of competition." 
As a result, the CC ordered Ryanair to divest itself of the majority of its holding to no more than 5% but did not give 
a deadline. Ryanair had previously tried to take over the company but to no avail. Concerning the carrier's stock 
exchange presence, Mueller said he wanted to see a greater amount of Aer Lingus shares traded as at present, 
only 35% is listed on the Dublin and London Stock Exchanges. The CEO noted that there was "a lot of demand" for 
the airline's shares, particularly from US investors. While there is mounting speculation that Etihad Airways will 
increase its stake in the carrier from its current level of 4.99%, Mueller said the Irish carrier's next phase of 
cooperation with the Emirates would focus on creating synergies between the two airlines with particular focus on 
"the cost side and joint purchasing.â€
ZZ
Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Custom 
Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our 
Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail: bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com ISSN 1939-666X - Copyright Â© 2014 
AirGuideBusiness / Pyramid Media Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Load-Date: September 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair signs deal with Navtech for aeronautical charts and FMS data
Ryanair signs deal with Navtech for aeronautical charts and FMS data
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 22, 2014 Monday 10:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Technology & Telecommunications
Length: 201 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has signed a long-term deal with Navtech Inc., a provider of flight operations software and 
services, to provide aeronautical charts and flight management system, or FMS, data for use onboard its fleet of 
300 Boeing 737-800s.
Body
Ryanair converted to Navtech paper charts and FMS data in August and is currently transferring to "electronic flight 
bags" with Navtech's state-of-the-art cockpit solution, iCharts EFB, which provides pilots with quick and easy 
access to the most up-to-date data as well as customisation options based on user and organizations size. 
Ryanair's Group Director of Operations, Michael Hickey said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch Navtech Charts and 
FMS data on board our flights this summer. In Navtech, we found a partner whose products will help us to deliver 
further efficiencies as we grow from our current 300 aircraft fleet to 520 aircraft over the next 10 years. The 
transition of paper charts and FMS data was seamless and we will now eliminate paper charts in the cockpit by 
deploying Navtech's iCharts EFB software on board our entire fleet." President and CEO at Navtech, Mike Hulley 
said: "Navtech has been working with Ryanair to incorporate the iCharts EFB solution into their demanding 
operational model. This partnership has resulted in a product that now meets all of the operational needs of the 
world's largest global network carriers, the largest low cost carriers - and everyone in between."
Load-Date: September 28, 2014
End of Document
Pilots' union threatens to extend Air France strike Week in review
Pilots' union threatens to extend Air France strike; Week in review
Financial Times (London, England)
September 20, 2014 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 13
Length: 190 words
Byline: Michael Stothard in Paris
Body
Air France this week suffered its most disruptive industrial action since 1998, with the pilots union threatening to 
extend its strike over pay into next week.
More than half of flights have been cancelled, costing the airline EUR10m-EUR15m a day and threatening to tip the 
company into a net loss for the year.
The union demands that workers at Transavia France, the group's low-cost division, have the same pay and 
conditions as those at the main business.
Management says it will not be possible to compete with low-cost rivals easyJet and Ryanair if they are forced to 
pay the pilots the same as at the mainline carrier.
"We say no, there is Transavia and Air France, but they are two separate worlds ," Alexandre de Juniac, chief 
executive of Air France-KLM, said.
Jean-Louis Barber of the pilot's union warned that it was not backing down and might vote to extend the strike into 
next week.
Pilots' union threatens to extend Air France strike Week in review
Paris called for an end to the strike with Manuel Valls, prime minister, saying it was "weighing heavily on Air France, 
as well as on its finances, and on the attractiveness and the image of our country. No one understands what this 
strike is about."
Load-Date: September 19, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet to boost dividend and expand short-haul fleet Travel & leisure
EasyJet to boost dividend and expand short-haul fleet; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 19, 2014 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 415 words
Byline: Jane Wild in London
Body
EasyJet is planning to increase its dividend payout and further expand its fleet, as Europe's second largest low-cost 
carrier by revenue intensifies efforts to steal market share from rivals on short-haul routes.
The Luton-based airline, which held a capital markets day yesterday, said it would raise the dividend payout ratio 
from 33 per cent of post-tax profit to 40 per cent in its financial year ending on September 30.
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou , the airline's founder and largest shareholder, who has long pushed easyJet for bigger 
returns , welcomed the dividend plan.
"This is a company that will be 20 years old next year. It is now a mature, cash-generative business and 
shareholders are entitled to get their fair share of the total return," a spokesman for Sir Stelios said.
However, he criticised easyJet's decision to buy 27 additional narrow-body aircraft from Airbus. "We regard an 
aircraft order as destructive of long-term value," he said.
Sir Stelios strongly criticised easyJet's decision last year to buy 135 A320 aircraft from Airbus, worth $11.9bn at 
catalogue prices. The aircraft should provide easyJet with a new phase of growth on European short-haul routes - 
largely at the expense of flag carriers such as Air France and Alitalia.
EasyJet to boost dividend and expand short-haul fleet Travel & leisure
EasyJet chief Carolyn McCall said: "We are bringing new aircraft into the fleet as we continue to see a significant 
number of new profitable opportunities in our core markets in the near term and in order to maintain our cost 
advantage." She added the airline was positioned for "sustainable growth and attractive cash returns for 
shareholders".
Shares in easyJet, which have declined by nearly a quarter since an April record high, rose almost 0.5 per cent to 
£13.45.
EasyJet is exercising purchase options with Airbus to buy 27 A320 aircraft. Although the narrow-body jets are worth 
$2.5bn at list prices, the airline stressed it had secured a discount with the European aircraft manufacturer.
Delivery of the A320 aircraft - which offer a cost saving per seat of between 7 and 8 per cent compared to smaller 
Airbus A319 jets that make up much of easyJet's fleet - will take place between next year and 2018.
EasyJet expects its fleet to consist of 304 aircraft by 2019, compared to 226 at the end of this month. It carried 61m 
passengers in 2012-13.
EasyJet's fleet expansion coincides with similar moves by Ryanair, which this month placed an order with Boeing 
for 100 next-generation narrow-body aircraft, worth $11bn at catalogue prices.
Load-Date: September 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair in flight data deal with Navtech Ryanair flights
Ryanair in flight data deal with Navtech; Ryanair flights
Business World (Digest)
September 18, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 244 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it has signed a long-term deal with flight operations software and services firm 
Navtech.
Body
Ryanair today said it has signed a long-term deal with flight operations software and services firm Navtech.
Navtech will provide aeronautical charts and flight management system (FMS) data for use onboard its fleet of 300 
Boeing 737-800s.
Ryanair converted to Navtech paper charts and FMS data in August and is currently transferring to "electronic flight 
bags" with Navtech's cockpit solution, iCharts EFB, which provides pilots with quick and easy access to the most 
up-to-date data as well as customisation options based on user and organisations size.
"Ryanair is pleased to launch Navtech Charts and FMS data on board our flights this summer. In Navtech, we found 
a partner whose products will help us to deliver further efficiencies as we grow from our current 300 aircraft fleet to 
520 aircraft over the next 10 years. The transition of paper charts and FMS data was seamless and we will now 
eliminate paper charts in the cockpit by deploying Navtech's iCharts EFB software on board our entire fleet," said 
Ryanair's Group Director of Operations, Michael Hickey. President and CEO at Navtech, Mike Hulley said: "Navtech 
has been working with Ryanair to incorporate the iCharts EFB solution into their demanding operational model. This 
partnership has resulted in a product that now meets all of the operational needs of the world's largest global 
network carriers, the largest low cost carriers - and everyone in between." For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 23, 2014
End of Document
EU court OKs airlines' right to charge for luggage
EU court OKs airlines' right to charge for luggage
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 18, 2014 Thursday 8:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 145 words
Dateline: BRUSSELS 
Body
BRUSSELS (AP) - The European Union's highest court says airlines are allowed to charge passengers an extra fee 
for checking in luggage.
The Court of Justice ruled Thursday that "checked-in baggage cannot be considered to be compulsory or 
necessary" for carrying passengers, thus granting carriers the right to charge a supplement.
The Luxembourg-based judges found a Spanish law prohibiting such luggage surcharges violates European law 
because it prohibits airlines from charging for what represents a "complementary service."
Luggage surcharges coming on top of cheap airfares are common with Europe's burgeoning budget airlines such 
as Ryanair and Easyjet.
The 28-nation bloc's top court said a Spanish consumer protection authority was wrong to fine Vueling Airlines for 
demanding a luggage surcharge of 40 euros ($52) for a round-trip between Spain and the Netherlands.
Load-Date: September 19, 2014
End of Document
Thomas Cook bookings hit by German worries over exports Travel & leisure
Thomas Cook bookings hit by German worries over exports; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 17, 2014 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 21
Length: 310 words
Byline: Mark Odell
Body
Holiday bookings at Thomas Cook have been hit by a fall in German consumer confidence.
"We saw German consumer confidence begin to drop towards the end of July, beginning of August," said Harriet 
Green , chief executive of the UK-based tour operator. Germany accounts for about a third of group revenues and 
operating profits.
Ms Green blamed the combination of weaker export data and the crisis in Ukraine , which led to the EU imposing 
sanctions on Russia, one of Germany's biggest export markets. The company said bookings had "recently 
moderated" in what had been a "strong" market.
German consumers were more sensitive to such factors than many of their European counterparts, Ms Green 
added. The outlook in Germany overshadowed Thomas Cook 's full-year profit guidance, which was in line with 
consensus. The company said yesterday it expected to report operating profits in the range of £315m to £335m, 
compared with a consensus forecast of £327m.
Investors reacted negatively to the trading update ahead of its full-year results in November, sending the shares 
down 5 per cent in morning trading in London to 123.30p.
The travel sector is particularly sensitive to geopolitical events: Thomas Cook was hit hard by the unrest in Egypt 
last year, which affected winter bookings.
Thomas Cook bookings hit by German worries over exports Travel & leisure
The company, which flies about 60 per cent of its customers on its own airline, is also having to cope with 
overcapacity across Europe, largely due to intense competition from low-cost carriers such as Ryanair and easyJet.
Average selling prices in its tour operating business were down 1 per cent overall for the year and down 3 per cent 
in its German airline operation, which it breaks out separately.
Ms Green said she was "very confident" about the fourth quarter: "We believe our German business will do better 
than last year", she said, even though margins were likely to weaken.
Load-Date: September 16, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair slam Govt over airport charges Airport Charges
Ryanair slam Govt over airport charges; Airport Charges
Business World (Digest)
September 16, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 364 words
Highlight: Ryanair today slammed Government "interference", claiming that the Transport Minister Paschal 
Donohoe intervened with the regulator to increase airline charges at Dublin Airport.
Body
Ryanair today slammed Government "interference", claiming that the Transport Minister Paschal Donohoe 
intervened with the regulator to increase airline charges at Dublin Airport.
It called on Government to close down the Commission for Aviation Regulation (CAR), saying that the Minister 
issued a direction to the CAR ordering it to increase airport charges at Dublin, "against the CAR's stated intention to 
reduce the charges by 22pc over a 5 year period to 2019".
Ryanair's Director of Legal and Regulatory Affairs, Juliusz Komorek said: "There is no useful purpose in maintaining 
the CAR as a purported independent regulator of airport charges when the Department of Transport, or the 
Downtown Office of the DAA, issues binding directions to the CAR, requiring it to increase airport charges at Dublin 
Airport against the CAR's stated intention to reduce airport charges by 22pc between 2015 and 2019."
"The Department's direction, signed by Minister Paschal Donohoe, comes less than 4 months after the previous 
Transport Minister Leo Varadkar stated during a Dail debate that his Department would not issue directions to the 
CAR because he favoured independent regulation. Clearly the current Transport Minister and the Downtown Office 
of the DAA (the Department of Transport) do not favour independent regulation and instead put the narrow interests 
of the State-owned DAA monopoly ahead of the interests of Irish consumers and the Irish tourism industry, which 
would benefit hugely from a reduction in airport charges and traffic growth," he added. Last week, Dublin Airport 
Authority (DAA) also hit out at the aviation regulator. It warned that passenger growth at Dublin Airport "will be 
stifled" over the next five years unless a draft determination on airport charges is reversed. It has also accused the 
CAR of failing to allow essential investments aimed at improving facilities at Terminal 1 at the airport, which could 
also damage growth. The DAA claims growth will suffer over the failure to allow investments for growing transfer 
passenger numbers, expanding the use of the main runway and delivering additional aircraft parking areas. For 
more visit www.businessworld.ie.
Ryanair slam Govt over airport charges Airport Charges
Load-Date: September 19, 2014
End of Document
Air France strike grounds half of flights Travel & leisure
Air France strike grounds half of flights; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
September 16, 2014 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 413 words
Byline: Jane Wild in London
Highlight: Sixty per cent of airline's pilots take part in action over pay and conditions
Body
More than half of Air France flights were cancelled yesterday after a strike by pilots, in a week when industrial 
action is set to also disrupt operations at German flag-carrier Lufthansa.
Sixty per cent of Air France pilots took part in the planned week-long industrial action over pay and conditions , 
leading to more than 500 flights being cancelled - 52 per cent of the total - the airline said.
Shares in Air France-KLM, Air France's parent group, were down 3.3 per cent to EUR8.26 in Paris yesterday.
The French pilots union is objecting to how employees at Transavia, Air France-KLM's low-cost unit, are paid less 
than those at the group's mainline businesses.
Air France is looking to expand Transavia France to enable it to compete more effectively against budget carriers 
such as Ryanair and easyJet that have seized market share on European short-haul routes, but the strategy's 
success depends on achieving lower costs, a key part of which is pay.
The dispute highlights the difficulties faced by big established airlines as they attempt to fight back against budget 
rivals by setting up their own low-cost units.
Air France strike grounds half of flights Travel & leisure
Analysts said the strike could cost Air France-KLM as much as EUR40m a day - although Frédéric Gagey , 
chairman and chief executive, has estimated daily losses at between EUR10m and EUR15m.
Yesterday, Air France was advising passengers due to fly this week to postpone their journeys if possible and was 
offering refunds where flights were cancelled. The airline said that passengers should check whether their flight was 
operating before leaving for the airport.
Talks with unions were continuing but disruption is set to continue today, with only about 40 per cent of Air France 
flights expected to operate.
The airline said it had sent 600,000 texts and email messages to customers due to fly today.
Air France-KLM issued a profit warning in July, citing among other things pressure on ticket prices on transatlantic 
routes because airlines were putting too many aircraft into this market.
Lufthansa had issued a profit warning in June, partly because of the effect of industrial action in its home country.
The German group is braced for more action today, when pilots are due to strike, arguing for higher pay and the 
option to take early retirement.
Lufthansa has drafted in pilots from its management team to minimise disruption and 24 of 40 long-haul flights out 
of Frankfurt will depart at revised times to avoid strike action scheduled between 9am and 5pm.
Load-Date: September 15, 2014
End of Document
New TT: the same as it ever was Audi 's new coupe looks as good as ever, but it feels more like a top-end VW 
than a thrusting sports car
New TT: the same as it ever was; Audi's new coupe looks as good as ever, 
but it feels more like a top-end VW than a thrusting sports car
City A.M.
September 16, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 33
Length: 719 words
Byline: PETER BURGESS
Body
What's your take on the Audi TT? A brilliant interpretation of Bauhaus design language? An unusually attainable, 
good looking sports car? Or so commonplace it barely even registers? The original TT was something 
www.special.No car manufacturer had built such a bold interpretation of the coupe away from a motor show 
concept. And no one cared that beneath the curvaceous exterior, a Volkswagen Golf was hiding, albeit with four-
wheel-drive. Style plus turbo-charged performance was enough to get buyers flocking to Audi dealers.
In 2006 a new TT smoothed out the lines of the original and offered more space. Now the third generation is about 
to launch, looking uncannily like the TT it's replacing.
Audi's confidence in its icon must be overwhelming. We flew to Malaga on a private jet out of Stansted's Inflite 
terminal, hidden away from Ryanair's customers on the other side on the airport. Then it was onto the Marbella 
Club hotel which, let me tell you, is much posher than it sounds. Mercedes use it for this sort of thing, too.
I always get an uneasy feeling when I hear phrases like "automotive supercomputer meets state-of-the-art sports 
car ". What are we meant to take from that? The new TT looks much like the previous one, while mechanically it's 
full of the best bits from Volkswagen's bin of parts for its mid-sized cars.
Yet there is something special going on here. Much of the bodywork is aluminium for the first time.
Combined with improved engine efficiency, the new TT is both faster and greener, though nowhere near green 
enough to avoid the congestion charge. Then there's the interior. This has been a TT strong point from the 
New TT: the same as it ever was Audi 's new coupe looks as good as ever, but it feels more like a top-end VW 
than a thrusting sports car
beginning, but this dashboard design is breath-takingly good. The five freshair vents, with the heating controls so 
neatly built into the central knobs, are a delight. And even better is the driver-centric thin-film transistor display.
Combining dials, phone, satnav, music and more, you can dance around from screen to screen, choosing exactly 
what you want to see and when. For example, if you want the largest possible mapping, the speedometer and rev 
counter shrink in size to accommodate. You'll need a child to show you the intricacies of its operation, of course.
Has the driving prowess of a TT ever really mattered? If you really cared, you'd have bought a Boxster, but the new 
model acquits itself well. You pay extra for quattro four-wheel drive now, but much of the time the 2.0-litre turbo, 
with its 230bhp and front-wheel-drive, is quick and fun.
There's also a 310bhp TTS version, which impressed on the private Ascari race track up in the mountains near 
Ronda, though the differences seem less marked on public roads. Despairingly, I also liked the diesel TT, mainly 
because it was the quietest and most relaxed to drive.
All the launch TTs (there will be more to come in the next 18 months) have a "drive select" system that can be set 
to hone the suspension to your preference. Clever but not strictly necessary. Likely to be of greater appeal is the 
quick, paddle-shifting "S tronic" transmission and the standard leather + Alcantara seats.
Yes, it's all down to the visuals with cars like this. For despite Audi's claims, the TT lacks hard-nosed sports car 
credentials. It drives like a top end VW, not a Porsche or even an MX-5. So eye appeal is everything. And the 
trouble is, hardly anyone in Spain took a second glance at the new Audi. Familiarity seems to breed indifference.
NOT CONVINCED? CHECK OUT THESE ALTERNATIVES...
THE VERDICT: DESIGN ????? PERFORMANCE ????? PRACTICALITY ????? VALUE FOR MONEY ????? hhhii 
THE FACTS: AUDI TTS QUATTRO S TRONIC PRICE: £38,900 0-62MPH: 4.6 secs TOP SPEED: 155mph CO2 
G/KM: 159g/km MPG COMBINED: 40.9mpg
PRICE: £43,005 0-62MPH: 5.1 secs TOP SPEED: 155mph CO2 G/KM: 211g/km MPG COMBINED: 31.0mpg BMW 
Z4 SDRIVE 35i SPORT
THE VERDICT: DESIGN ????? PERFORMANCE ????? PRACTICALITY ????? VALUE FOR MONEY ????? hhiii
MERCEDES SLK 350 AMG SPORT AUTO
PRICE: £44,605 0-62MPH: 5.6 secs TOP SPEED: 155mph CO2 G/KM: 167g/km MPG COMBINED: 39.8mpg
THE VERDICT: DESIGN ????? PERFORMANCE ????? PRACTICALITY ????? VALUE FOR MONEY ????? hhiii
PORSCHE CAYMAN PDK PRICE: £39,694 0-62MPH: 5.6 secs TOP SPEED: 164mph CO2 G/KM: 183g/km MPG 
COMBINED: 35.8mpg
THE VERDICT: DESIGN ????? PERFORMANCE ????? PRACTICALITY ????? VALUE FOR MONEY ????? 
hhhhi
Load-Date: September 16, 2014
End of Document
EVERYONE knows Michael O'Leary is [...] TUESDAY 16 SEPTEMBER 2014 12 www.cityam.com/the-capitalist 
Got A Story? Email thecapitalist@cityam.com EDITED BY GABRIEL....
EVERYONE knows Michael O'Leary is [...]; TUESDAY 16 SEPTEMBER 2014 
12 www.cityam.com/the-capitalist Got A Story? Email 
thecapitalist@cityam.com EDITED BY GABRIELLA GRIFFITH 
THECAPITALIST
City A.M.
September 16, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 77 words
Byline: GABRIELLA GRIFFITH
Body
EVERYONE knows Michael O'Leary is a thrifty chap, or at least a fan of saving a few bob where he can. He 
famously said Ryanair had a policy of stealing hotel pens and not paying for Bic biros. Well, apparently, he's not 
alone. A survey from our friends at the British Promotional Merchandise Association has found that 89.3 per cent of 
business people have branded pens on their desk, as firms strive to use freebies to their advantage. My, aren't we 
economical ones?
Load-Date: September 16, 2014
End of Document
O'Leary: Ryanair to US in 10 years Ryanair To US?
O'Leary: Ryanair to US in 10 years; Ryanair To US?
Business World (Digest)
September 15, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 192 words
Highlight: Ryanair could be flying from Europe to the US within the next decade, chief executive Michael O'Leary 
has said.
Body
Ryanair could be flying from Europe to the US within the next decade, chief executive Michael O'Leary has said.
He said it would take that long because there is currently a shortage of long-haul aircraft available but said it would 
likely happen during his tenure as CEO.
"The difficulty is, I keep cautioning, is that there's no availability of long-haul aircraft for another four or five years. 
So unless we can secure a fleet of low-cost aircraft, frankly, the business doesn't get off the ground. The future is 
very hard to foretell, it certainly is unlikely to happen within the next five years, but I'd be disappointed if it doesn't 
happen within the period, maybe, five to 10 years," he said.
Mr O'Leary's comments come after he previously announced in February that the Irish airline could offer 
passengers flights to the US for as little as E10. The airline intends to offer the cheap flights from between 12 to 14 
European cities to the same amount of destinations in America. He told the Irish Hotels Federation conference in 
Meath that Ryanair would offer the E10 flights to Boston and New York. Flights back to Europe from the US would 
cost E8.
Load-Date: September 18, 2014
End of Document
Air France To Cancel 52% Flights On Monday Due To Week-long Pilots Strike
Air France To Cancel 52% Flights On Monday Due To Week-long Pilots 
Strike
RTT News (United States)
September 14, 2014 Sunday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 450 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Air France, the French arm of Franco-Dutch carrier Air France-KLM SA (AFRAF), announced Sunday 
that it expects to operate only 48 percent of its flights on Monday as 60 percent of its pilots plan to strike on the first 
day of the week long strike announced by the pilots union.
The airline has also warned of disruptions and delays in flights. The strike is reportedly expected to cost the airline 
about 10 million to 15 million euros per day.
Air France has asked customers with a flight reservation between September 15 and 22 to postpone their trip until 
between September 23 and 30, at no extra cost, subject to availability.
They can also choose to receive a voucher valid for one year on Air France or KLM to postpone their trip beyond 
September 30, to change their destination or departure airport or if they choose not to travel. The airline added that 
7,000 of its employees will be doing all they can to assist customers.
The flight cancellations come after the pilots union called, SNPL France Alpa, announced a week long strike 
between September 15 and 22 even as negotiations continue with the union in order to reach a settlement.
The pilots union announced the strike on August 28 after rejection of its demand that sought a say in the cost-
cutting measures the airline is considering as its struggles to return to profit amid intense competition from low-cost 
carriers such as Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY, RYA.L) and easyJet plc (ESYJY, EZJ.L).
The union reportedly are not against the cost-cutting but is requesting the management to keep them involved while 
taking decisions on the measures.
The pilots are also seeking similar conditions for the pilots that volunteer to work at the low cost service, Transavia 
Airlines, which is being expanded to compete with low-cost rivals. The airline has announced it will transfer most of 
its short- and medium-haul services to its low-cost unit Transavia.
The company has already said it will compensate the pilots who volunteer to work at Transavia. However, the pilots 
are concerned the company will use the transfer to change working conditions.
Major European airlines such as Air France and German rival Deutsche Lufthansa AG (DLAKY, DLAKF) are 
struggling amid stiff competition with budget airlines.
Air France To Cancel 52% Flights On Monday Due To Week-long Pilots Strike
Lufthansa has also been plagued by strikes and was recently struck by the fourth strike call in 2014. It had 
announced the cancellation of more than 100 flights for August 29 after pilots union Vereinigung Cockpit called a 
strike at its budget airline Germanwings to attain their demands for better early retirement provisions.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 15, 2014
End of Document
The Sunday Interview: Danielle Ryan
The Sunday Interview: Danielle Ryan
Sunday Business Post
September 14, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1761 words
Body
CV: Danielle Ryan
**Role:**Chief executive of Roads Luxury Group
**Age:**30
**Lives:**Dublin
**Family:**granddaughter of aviator and philanthropist Tony Ryan, who founded Ryanair. Married to barrister 
Richard Bourke, nephew of former President Mary Robinson, with two children
.....
Up a dingy staircase, inside an unprepossessing Art Deco building on the corner of Dame Street and George's 
Street in Dublin, are the offices of the Roads Luxury Group. It's the building that used to have the huge Mary 
Robinson tapestry in the window.
Visitors meet an expanse of pale wood floors, white walls and expensive -looking minimalism, like a grand scale 
Paris atelier.
Danielle Ryan, heiress, actor and philanthropist now turned entrepreneur, appears in a flowing Ibiza-chic black 
dress, with bright red nails. It's been a year since she founded Roads, a three-pronged venture into niche 
fragrances, publishing, and production for film and TV. All three operate out of Dame Street, pooling financial, legal 
and other resources, but with separate budgets.
It's a departure for Ryan, who - despite her family's business pedigree (her grandfather was Tony Ryan who 
founded Guinness Peat Aviation and Ryanair) - has mainly focused on the dramatic arts, both as an actor herself 
and as the founder of Dublin's Lir National Academy of Dramatic Art, which opened in 2011.
The Sunday Interview: Danielle Ryan
   Roads has been an interesting challenge and balance,   says Ryan.    It was hard to describe the vision I had of 
the three companies together. But similar people are interested in all three. The type of person who's interested in 
documentaries and indie films is interested in niche perfumes and art books. They're a cultural group.  
Ryan is funding the businesses herself, though she says she has had approaches from high-profile prospective 
investors several times. She intends to stick to self-funding,    but at moments when you're flying through budgets, 
it's nice to know there's interest  .
The group, she says, is revenue-generating but she won't speculate on growth targets or future scale. Each division 
has structured business plans with targets set out several years ahead.
   It's all been measured, I put in a bit [of funding], then wait for distribution agreements to know a certain amount of 
stock is assigned. It's now at a stage that they're each standing on their feet and doing well. I can't predict what 
Roads is going to become next year, but it's grown far quicker than I thought.  
Ryan has a hallowed family business pedigree. Guinness Peat Aviation became the world's largest aircraft leasing 
company during the 1980s. Her grandfather subsequently founded Ryanair, where her father Cathal was an integral 
player. Her uncle Declan is a successful aviation figure and tech investor.
Still, she herself has no experience of business.    But I can look at the bottom line,   she points out.    And If I came 
from an accountancy background for example I might not have been as brave with certain choices.
   I listen and take the business elements very seriously. The family were always helpful with that sort of thing and I 
do roughly know what I'm doing.  
Does Ryan find her family legacy oppressive?
   I think people can feel self-conscious putting themselves out there regardless of their background, to start a 
business in any capacity is admirable,   she says.
She is hating this aspect of the conversation and, after we finish the interview, she asks that it not be a central 
focus.    The background, I'm very proud of it, though obviously it's got nothing to do with me. It can carry 
expectation from people but I tend to ignore a lot of that stuff, to ignore both the compliments of it and the negativity 
and just get on with it.  
Growing up, Ryan says, she was aware of her family's business status, but it's the glamour that resonates for her.
   Somebody asked me what my first memory was of fragrance and I remember the aftershave of all the guys 
getting ready to go out, going to dinner parties, smelling great, looking great. I was in my pyjamas, seriously angry 
that I wasn't getting into a dress to go too. I remember thinking that it was all very stylish. I was kind of aware. But 
as a child you live in surroundings that you're used to. I didn't think there was anything unusual.  
It was no trustafarian lifestyle - bohemianism in spite of privilege.    No, not at all!   she says, clearly finding the idea 
outlandish.    When I went to college it's not like I was getting a ton of money into bank accounts or anything like 
that! And I was working all through, I had a job in a bookshop.
   There was also pressure to be extremely diligent in your work, absolutely. In fact there were probably challenges 
put in front of us at times to see if we could handle them.
   I think maybe there's a funny perception of the Ryan dynasty, as you put it. I'm proud of their incredible 
achievement but can't really comment on it because I wasn't involved in it.  
Back to business, and there's a lot going on at Roads: a collection of perfumes selling internationally, a range of 
classic novel titles and visual books published and selling globally and several documentaries and films in the 
pipeline.
The Sunday Interview: Danielle Ryan
Ryan is a curious mixture of shyness and steely self-possession. She becomes glowingly animated when 
discussing the creative aspects of Roads, and retreats when any business performance elements of the Roads 
group or her famous family are mentioned.
The final stages of preparation are in train for four new fragrances in her perfume range, she says. They will have 
an African theme, from the scent notes to packaging and design inspired by art from the continent.
The perfume business has been a well-timed play.    Niche perfumes have absolutely exploded,   she says.    
Where department stores wouldn't take them on without a EUR 2 million marketing spend, now they want to curate 
the taste they think their customers have. Which is lovely, our timing was on the cusp of things.  
The high-end scent range competes in a space with hip names like Agonist, Memo or Boadicea but at the slightly 
less eye watering price point of EUR 98 a bottle. (Agonist's range, packaged in hand-blown Swedish crystal, retails 
at around EUR 200).
Ryan has scored exclusive deals with iconic New York department store chain Barney's across the US; Selfridges 
in Britain, and shops in Russia, Asia, Scandinavia, Australia, New Zealand and the Middle East.
A range of scented candles, another luxury product that has soared in appeal lately, is being developed for next 
year.
   All round I've been extremely pleased with sales and the response to everything, everybody understood it. We 
can breathe a little sigh of relief,   she says.
Ryan is now focusing on the publishing arm of Roads. This month there are four new visual books coming out. 
There's Reservoir, a collaboration with artist Alice Maher. There's a book of beautiful anatomical paintings by 
renowned illustrator Fernando Vicente, a Madrid artist whose work regularly appears in Vogue.
Ryan's favourite is Paparazzo, a showcase of the work of Elio Sorci, one of the world's first paparazzi. It was Sorci 
who snapped the first image of Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in a clinch that confirmed their passionate 
affair, and the first unposed images of celebrities like Audrey Hepburn, John Wayne, Sophia Loren, Clint Eastwood 
and more.
Sorci died last year, leaving behind 14,000 images that had never been seen, some of the choicest of which are 
assembled in this book.
By the end of the year Ryan expects the publishing arm will have distribution channels in India and more 
relationships with suppliers internationally.
   We didn't want to come out with big titles until the distribution was in place. We only wanted to put the money in 
once we knew the those deals were done.  
The third piece of the enterprise is Roads Entertainment, which has nine TV and film projects in the pipeline and 
EUR 240,000 of Irish Film Board finance helping two of those along. A timely and topical documentary titled After 
The Dance, directed by Daisy Asquith, has been filmed and will be released next year. It's the story of an English 
woman who was put up for adoption seeking out her origins in the west of Ireland.
There is a documentary of jockey AP McCoy at filming stage, and a feature film of the life of Richard Yates, the 
brilliant writer of Revolutionary Road (and speechwriter to Bobby Kennedy), who had a tumultuous life riven by 
chronic alcoholism.
Ryan may not be inclined to predict profit or scale or expansion possibilities for Roads but she is highly ambitious 
for it.    We're small but have the potential to do lots of things, potential to grow and grow and grow.  
The Sunday Interview: Danielle Ryan
The success of the Lir Academy, the Rada-affiliated theatre training school that Ryan funded and founded and has 
been closely involved in, gave her confidence, she said. To her pride, Lir recently saw its first crop of graduates 
emerge.
She has also been a prolific supporter of charities, donating millions to Unicef education and medical projects 
particularly in Sri Lanka (where her mother comes from) through a family charity trust. She invests in other    bits 
and pieces  , in mainstream stocks and property and has an investment vehicle, Portico Capital Management.
   I always liked property and that continues to run alongside, though not in Ireland.   (In Ireland she sold a former 
family property, Stacumny House in Co Kildare, last year).
   I like the tangibility of property, I like that you can calculate it on fairly straightforward terms. It's something I've 
always understood.  
After the recession, while still in her 20s, Ryan took on big renovation projects of large old period properties in 
Westminster in London, and jokes about ending up on building sites in high heels from time to time.
   I'm backing Roads and I want to keep running it, but if it all fell through there would still be property at the base of 
everything.  
Ryan conceived Roads as a very international concept, saying that thinking internationally was influenced by the 
family's global business outlook, but uses Irish designers and suppliers whenever possible.
   Culturally Ireland bubbles with creativity all the time. Anyone I've brought here, creatives working internationally at 
a very high level have been stunned by the independent retailers here and by the level of creativity. It's something I 
show off about a lot. Young dynamic designers here are holding their own with the best in Europe.
   A lot of the ingredients are in the bowl, now we just have to bake the cake and see what happens.  
Load-Date: September 15, 2014
End of Document
Profile: Michael O'Leary
Profile: Michael O'Leary
Sunday Business Post
September 14, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 1286 words
Body
Factfile
**Name:**Michael O'Leary
**Age:**53
**Appearance:**usually a cheeky grin and an outlandish pose for photo-ops
**Newsworthiness:**perennial, but in recent days he has struck a EUR 17 billion deal for new jets with Boeing
.....
For anyone who doubts the sincerity of Ryanair's recent conversion to family values, consider the following.
In September of last year, the airline struck a deal for an extravagant advertising campaign with Ashley Madison, 
the website for cheating spouses. The plan was typically striking: a fully pink plane, bearing the slogan Life's Short, 
Have an Affair', flying for six months between Barcelona and London Stansted.
It seemed perfect for a company whose chief executive once joked that the business class service for a putative 
Ryanair long-haul service would offer ''beds and blowjobs -- before reflecting on what the lack of a German 
translation for the latter term said about Teutonic sex lives.
They'd even earn EUR 120,000 for the link up. But, with the campaign all set and ready to run, Ryanair pulled the 
plug. Since then, both the airline and its chief executive have spent a lot of time and effort loudly trumpeting their 
new image. But for whose benefit, precisely? Why does Ryanair need a Michael O'Leary 2.0?
The obvious answer is paying customers, analysts say. In May, Ryanair announced it had made its first full-year 
loss in five years, while O'Leary was notably cautious about 2015. New customers are vital if the company is not to 
be left behind by its rivals, particularly Easyjet.
Profile: Michael O'Leary
According to Investec's Gerard Moore, the change in tone from Ryanair and O'Leary will help them court a share of 
the market they're just not getting right now.
''Ryanair has 12 per cent of the market in European short haul flights, he said. ''They've cornered off the bottom 12. 
He wants to go with the next tier up.
But do customers really care what O'Leary says and does?
''I'd split it two ways, Moore said. ''Your typical business customer is indifferent to the personality of the chief 
executive. He just wants to get to his meeting on time and not have to stay overnight, and be able to fly to a central 
airport, among other practical factors -- none of which includes admiring Michael O'Leary.
However, one of the big targets for Ryanair was, Moore said, ''the type of customer who is prepared to pay EUR 10 
extra just to fly with Aer Lingus and not to fly with Ryanair. The customer who, with a like-for-like product, is 
prepared to pay a slight extra premium. Let's take, for example, the Dublin-to-Malaga route. Both airlines fly to the 
exact same airport and are flying for the exact same reason. But Aer Lingus is able to achieve a premium. People 
put that premium down to a nice experience.
Another target for the new and improved O'Leary is the airports, according to most analysts, since courting that 
higher-value customer base will mean that Ryanair will have to deal with the main airports in European cities rather 
than the secondary hubs.
Stephen Furlong, airline analyst with Davy, said that the failure of Ryanair's attempt to buy out Aer Lingus will have 
made this need more acute.
The Aer Lingus acquisition, he said, would have given them a brand through which they could go into the 
mainstream, primary airports. However, after ''three failed attempts at Aer Lingus, they have to do it organically 
now.
To do that, O'Leary will have to court the airports through actual diplomacy rather than the megaphone kind.
This applies to governments and regulators, too, with whom his relations have been notoriously tetchy in the past.
''Of all the things he did that probably had any real material impact, [the worst] was when he referred to certain 
members of the regulatory bodies as wankers', said Bob McAdoo, a senior airline analyst at Avondale Partners, an 
investment firm based in Kansas City, Missouri.
''That probably didn't help him when he was trying to move forward with transactions like Aer Lingus -- it probably 
got in the way.
The new approach is evident as O'Leary tries to establish a Ryanair presence in southern Europe. Having already 
admitted defeat in his effort to buy Cyprus Air, the airline still intends to use Cyprus as its southern base.
For that, it will have to be given an air operators' certificate by the Cypriot regulator, and O'Leary's comments on the 
issue in recent months have been notably moderate.
Meanwhile, his relationship with his suppliers, too, will benefit from a more demure approach. Last week saw a 
much-lauded deal being struck with Boeing for 200 new planes worth EUR 17 billion, but O'Leary's relationship with 
Boeing has been notoriously fractious in the past.
Talks broke down between them in 2010 over his efforts to engineer a bidding war involving Boeing, Airbus, and the 
Chinese manufacturer Comac. A few years later, he derided the designs of a Boeing plane -- precisely the one of 
which he is ordering 200 models now -- as a ''dog's dinner of a design that had been drawn ''on the back of a fag 
packet.
Profile: Michael O'Leary
But perhaps the main target of this more mature, less voluble Ryanair is O'Leary's successor. It's an issue he's 
discussed in detail before, such as in an interview with The Financial Times in 2009. (He declined to be interviewed 
for this profile.) ''In certain respects I am our best salesman, he told the FT, saying that the ''pantomime villain 
character was part of the company's early expansion phase.
He knew even then it could not last. Once the rapid growth phase had ended, he said, ''you then need to hand over 
to somebody who's a bit more respectful of politicians and bureaucrats, talks about caring about the environment 
and old people, and fucking jungles and fish in the sea and all that shite.
The question is whether the creation of Michael O'Leary 2.0 is designed to make the big seat a little smaller for the 
next inhabitant, or an attempt by O'Leary to turn himself into that boring old chief executive.
Ryanair has made no comment on whether a succession plan is in place for O'Leary, but in the background -- if not 
necessarily quietly -- the company has been effecting a substantial management change lately, with Howard Millar 
and Michael Cawley (both seen at various times as O'Leary's successor) leaving the company. Meanwhile, a 
number of new positions have been created, such as chief technology officer and chief marketing officer.
O'Leary has lately been going out of his way to take personal responsibility for all the errors of the past, issuing a 
succession of high-profile mea culpas, acting as a lightning rod for the company's bad reputation, taking the hit and 
gradually receding into the background to allow the new, customer-friendly Ryanair team emerge.
Just last week, for example, the company announced that its livery colours would be toned down. On cue, O'Leary 
took the rap for it.
''As the author of the garish yellow some ten years ago, it was designed to keep everything very bright, he told 
reporters. ''If we're going to focus more and more, as we are, on the customer experience, maybe a little less in-
your-face and the use of more subtle colours and better imaging.
In spite of the self-flagellation, O'Leary remains very much the company's front man. ''It's basically close to a year 
now since Ryanair has been talking about this transformation and over that period O'Leary has still been centre 
stage and still been his typical self, said Moore.
Whether he succeeds or fails at his transition to Michael O'Leary 2.0, McAdoo said, he still gets newspapers full of 
free advertising.
''Are some of his antics calculated? McAdoo asked rhetorically. ''This is a calculated way to get the press to write 
more about him. And they're getting press, aren't they? He's using you again.
Load-Date: September 15, 2014
End of Document
In search of Montalbano
In search of Montalbano
Sunday Business Post
September 14, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIVING
Length: 1307 words
Body
The Sicilians are different from you and I. They grow prickly pears in window boxes, their tourist attractions include 
mummified Capuchin monks, and they do strange things with rice.
A recent episode of the cult Sicilian detective TV series Inspector Montalbano was entitled Gli Arancini di 
Montalbano. Arancini are deep fried balls of rice, a Sicilian speciality made from a labour-intensive recipe dreamed 
up by the Saracens 2,000 years ago. Regarding Inspector Salvo Montalbano and food, let's put it this way: despite 
being a gorgeous, woman-loving hunk, were he forced to make a choice between a good dinner and a good 
woman, he'd probably have to think about it.
Arancini are his favourite food, which is how I found myself in a cookery class trying to form a large ball out of a 
heap of sticky rice without letting the meat ragu filling fall out - the Sicilian Tourist Board doesn't miss a trick, and 
cookery classes in the kitchens at the Don Eusebio Restaurant in Ragusa is hugely popular with fans of the series.
I'd come to Sicily not for the food, but for the landscape. When I first started watching the series, I kept losing track 
of the plot because I was so distracted by the glorious scenery - miles of golden sand beaches lapped by the 
crystal-clear Mediterranean, sleepy fishing villages, ancient towns of honey-coloured stone rising in tiers like giant 
sandcastles, a rugged terrain cleaved by ravines, dotted with almond orchards and olive groves, and tiny islands, all 
under the magical Sicilian light.
Adapted from the best-selling novels by Andrea Camilleri, the series is set and filmed in the province of Ragusa in 
south-eastern Sicily, the least visited part of the island - until Montalbano hit the small screen. Getting there is easy, 
as Ryanair now flies straight into Comiso in the heart of Montalbano country.
The title sequence of every episode shows our hero swimming towards his balconied beachfront villa in the fictional 
village of Vigata. You too can enjoy your morning espresso on the balcony - provided you check in for a stay.
When filming isn't in progress, the Casa di Montalbano is a charming B&B in the 16th-century fishing village of 
Punta Secca, one of many small resorts on the southern coast. A few miles east, the coolest place to have a superb 
In search of Montalbano
seafood lunch is the Restaurant Quattro Quarti, overlooking the coolest beach in Marina Ragusa, which is a 
favourite overwintering spot for international yachtsmen.
Sicily's built heritage is the legacy of the 13 civilisations that have held sway over the island. There are cave 
dwellings that date back 8,000 years, Greek temples, Roman villas, Byzantine monasteries and Arab mosques 
converted to Norman churches, but Ragusa's glory are the six Baroque towns now listed as Unesco World Heritage 
Sites.
Of these, the one not to be missed is Scicli. A few kilometres from the southern coast beaches, this architectural 
gem sits in a deep gorge where the cliffs are peppered by neolithic cave dwellings. As an antidote to tourist 
souvenir shops, look out for the scrap merchants that ply their tinplate wares at the foot of the cliffs.
Founded by the Sicel tribe that pre-dates the Greek colonists, Scicli was of huge cultural and economic importance 
during the Arab and Norman dominations. It was devastated during the earthquake of 1693, then completely rebuilt 
by the Spanish overlords in Sicilian Baroque style.
The pièce de résistance is the Palazzo Beneventano, a masterpiece described by Anthony Blunt as the most 
beautiful palazzo in Sicily. It stands at the top of Via Francesco Mormino Penna, where Baroque palazzos stand 
cheek by jowl with 18th-century churches. Montalbano fans will quickly spot the fictional police station - it's actually 
Scicli's Town Hall.
In Modica, the Unesco plum is the 18th-century Church of San Giorgio, but I'd come in search of something with a 
little less gravitas, L'Antica Dolceria Bonajuto, one of the oldest chocolate factories in the world. It was during the 
17th century that the Spaniards introduced chocolate to Sicily, and today, this sixth generation of chocolatiers is still 
using the recipe the Spaniards learned from the Aztecs, the cocoa beans ground with a stone rolling pin and 
blended with sugar and spices - no butter, no milk - to make mouthwatering, 100 per cent cocoa mass chocolates to 
die for.
From Modica, the road heads over a high plateau until you are confronted with a jawdropping view of Ragusa Ibla, 
a higgledy-piggledy heap of churches, palazzos and houses gleaming gold in the morning sun. Here, you have a 
tale of two cities. Like Scicli, Ragusa was devastated by the 1693 earthquake. The aristos opted to build a new 
town at the top of the gorge (Ragusa Superiore), with the hoi polloi staying on the original site at the bottom 
(Ragusa Ibla).
Prepare for more than a few déjà vû Montalbano moments - the stunning view over the old town from the Church of 
Santa Maria delle Scala, the Piazza Duomo (in the series it's Vigata's town square). Look out for the little 
neoclassical Circolo di Conversazione, founded as a social club for local gentry (still going strong) and 
Montalbano's favourite restaurant, in real life La Rusticana.
For a glimpse of how 19th-century Sicilian aristocrats lived, Castello di Donnafugata is well worth a visit. Built in 
Venetian gothic style, it makes regular appearances in the series as the well-guarded home of a retired Mafia don. 
The highly ornate interiors show a penchant for neo-classical statues, gilt by the mile, trompe l'oeil ceilings, 
exuberantly patterned wallpaper (the smoking room is papered with pipe motifs) and surprisingly small single beds.
In the magnificent gardens, the star specimen is a 200-year-old fig tree, and the cafe is housed in a Greek temple, 
one of several lovely follies. Luca Zingaretti, who plays Montalbano, was so taken with Donnafugata he chose it as 
the venue for his real life wedding.
For anyone planning a honeymoon, a romantic sojourn in Sicily, or simply in search of gourmet food, the hotel I'd 
recommend is Eremo della Giubiliana, five miles from Ragusa. A medieval convent once occupied by the Knights of 
Malta, it is now a luxury boutique hotel. On the day that I lunched there, chef Giorgio Ruggeri served a meal fit for a 
king - Caponata, an hors d'oeuvre of sweet and sour yellow pumpkin, hot ricotta cheese and black pork sausage, 
followed by an entrée of tagliatelli with goat ragout, and a main course of Rabbit Pattuisa style. Dessert was a melt-
in-the-mouth Orange Semifreddo with crumbled wild fennel, and coffee by the pool was Amaro dell'Eremo.
In search of Montalbano
Sicilian cuisine owes a good deal to its alien occupiers. The Arabs introduced lemons and bitter oranges, spices 
galore, egg plants, artichokes, pomegranates and apricots. En route to the Crusades, the Portuguese dropped off 
sweet oranges, and we can thank the Venetians for Granita, Sicily's unique take on the ice-water dessert.
One of the charms of the province is the lack of mass-tourism hordes. That could yet change. See it while its 
essence is intact and unforgettable.
.....
**Factfile**
**Getting there:**Ryanair flies Dublin to Comiso direct; see ryanair.com. NB: Comiso Airport has yet to get a duty 
free shop.
**Where to stay:**Donnafugata Golf Resort and Spa, five-star luxury hotel with two golf courses, doubles from Euro 
221; see donnafugatagolfresort.com.
Hotel Eremo della Giubiliana, luxury boutique hotel; doubles from Euro 206; see eremodellagiubiliana.it
Casa di Montalbano, Punta Secca; three-star B&B; doubles from Euro 55 per person; see lacasadimontalbano.com.
Villa Carlotta, Ragusa, four-star luxury hotel, doubles from Euro 109; see villacarlottahotel.com.
**Best time to go:**September to November, March to June.
*Inspector Montalbano is broadcast on BBC Four; books and boxed sets of the TV series are available from 
amazon.co.uk.*
Load-Date: September 15, 2014
End of Document
Also in the news...
Also in the news...
Financial Times (London, England)
September 13, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - WEEK IN REVIEW; Pg. 16
Length: 157 words
Body
Laura Ashley  has seen its fortunes blossom as its floral prints and homewares find fertile markets in Asia where 
they evoke an English country idyll. Less so in the UK, where the countryside can trigger thoughts of Sunday 
afternoons ebbing away while being stuck behind a slow tractor on a narrow lane.
Working on the principle that misery loves company, the exemplars of customer service at Ryanair are finding ways 
of squeezing more people on to their flights. Its new aircraft will have smaller galleys to make room for more people. 
What will the no-frills carrier introduce next? Bets are on coin-operated safety belts . . .
Much to the chagrin of many retailers, Amazon has come to dominate our shopping habits. However, it seems the 
one thing it cannot sell is a smartphone. News of the launch of its Fire handset in the UK and Germany was starved 
of the oxygen of publicity and cast into the shade by the biggest tree in the forest: Apple.
Load-Date: September 12, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to purchase 200 CFM LEAP-1B engines to power Boeing 737 MAX 200
Ryanair to purchase 200 CFM LEAP-1B engines to power Boeing 737 MAX 
200
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 12, 2014 Friday 1:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 321 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced its commitment to purchase 200 CFM LEAP-1B engines to power 100 
Boeing 737 MAX 200 aircraft.
Body
Boeing formally launched the airplane, a variant of the MAX 8 that can accommodate up to 200 passengers, today 
with this order. Once finalized, the firm engine order is valued at more than $2.6 billion US at list price. Ryanair also 
has options to purchase an additional 100 LEAP-1B-powered 737 MAX 200 airplanes. 
"The CFM-powered Boeing 737 has always been a winning combination," said Michael O'Leary, CEO of Ryanair. 
"The reliability of the CFM56 engines already in our fleet has helped us sustain profitable growth in the past. We 
look to this new LEAP engine to do even better." "The LEAP-1B-powered MAX 200 is going to be a great 
engine/airplane combination and we believe it will bring tremendous value to our customers," said Jean-Paul 
Ebanga, president and CEO of CFM International. "The major improvement in fuel efficiency, coupled with CFM's 
legendary reliability, will fit seamlessly into Ryanair's very successful business model and should prove to be a real 
asset to their operations." "Ryanair is one of our oldest customers, as well as one of our biggest," said Gael 
Meheust, vice president of sales for CFM parent company Snecma (Safran). "We are really looking forward to 
working closely with the Ryanair team to introduce this new engine into its fleet." The first full LEAP-1B engine 
began ground testing in July 2014, three days ahead of schedule, as part of the most extensive ground and flight 
test certification program in CFM's history. The total program, which encompasses all three LEAP engine variants, 
includes 28 ground and CFM flight test engines, along with a total of 32 flight test engines for Boeing, as well as 
Airbus and COMAC. Over the next three years, these engines will accumulate approximately 40,000 engine cycles 
leading up to entry into service. By the time this engine enters service, CFM will have simulated more than 15 years 
of airline service with 60 different engine builds.
Load-Date: September 18, 2014
Ryanair to purchase 200 CFM LEAP-1B engines to power Boeing 737 MAX 200
End of Document
Air France - KLM
Air France-KLM
Financial Times (London, England)
September 12, 2014 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 14
Length: 303 words
Body
Companies that try to raise growth by setting up a new division usually have a stable core business to support the 
new venture. Not Air France-KLM. It chose to run before it could walk properly. Management yesterday announced 
Perform 2020, a plan that includes doubling the fleet of its low-cost carrier Transavia , to 100 aircraft. Air France-
KLM aims to grow this business while trimming costs in its long-haul operation. That will put pressure on its fragile 
balance sheet.
The shares have bounced after having a bad summer, falling as much as 40 per cent from a peak in June. With jet 
fuel prices touching lows not seen since November, some pressure may come off the company's slim profit margin. 
Despite hedges, Credit Suisse estimates that every $50 per metric ton drop in the jet fuel price should add 
EUR120m to operating profits - about a fifth of estimated profits for 2014. Jet fuel has already fallen about $50 this 
year. Good.
But longer term, Air France-KLM's strategy lacks thrust. First, its long-haul business is likely to struggle. Liberum 
thinks excess capacity still exists in continental airline routes to the US. Yes, Transavia has low unit costs, at just 5 
euro cents per available seat kilometre (lower than easyJet's 6 cents). But funding the expansion of a weak brand 
(it lost EUR23m last year) such as Transavia would stretch any company, never mind one with a levered balance 
sheet. Net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft rent in 2013 was 4.2 times.
Ryanair and easyJet are chasing the European flag carriers. Both have moved upmarket with premium services. As 
they attack the higher end from a position of strength, Air France-KLM is attacking the low end from a position of 
weakness. If oil prices don't keep falling, it has little margin for error.
Air France - KLM
Load-Date: September 12, 2014
End of Document
Air France raises stakes in pilot dispute
Air France raises stakes in pilot dispute
Financial Times (London, England)
September 12, 2014 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 888 words
Byline: Michael Stothard and Chris Bryant
Highlight: Chief threatens to halt projects at budget carrier Transavia, write Michael Stothard and Chris Bryant
Body
The chief executive of Air France-KLM is threatening to halt the development of the Franco-Dutch airline group's 
budget carrier in France and expand elsewhere in Europe if no agreement is reached with the French pilots union 
ahead of a strike planned for next week.
Alexandre de Juniac told the Financial Times the group would "stop all new projects" at Transavia France - a low-
cost carrier unit where employees are paid less than at Air France's mainline business - if the pilots did not back 
down.
His tough message underlines the struggle by Europe's largest flag carrier groups to reduce their costs and 
compete effectively against budget airlines led by Ryanair and easyJet, which have established leading positions on 
short-haul routes over the past two decades. Air France-KLM, International Airlines Group and Lufthansa are 
pursuing different solutions to this challenge, but all are engaged in a slow and grinding exercise to improve 
efficiency.
The French pilots union wants its members at Transavia France - established in 2007 - to have the same working 
conditions as those at Air France's mainline business. They have threatened a week-long strike that analysts say 
could cost the lossmaking group as much as EUR40m a day.
Air France raises stakes in pilot dispute
"We say no, there is Transavia and Air France, but they are two separate worlds," says Mr de Juniac in a late-night 
interview at Paris's Charles de Gaulle airport. The 51-year-old executive yawns after a long day spent negotiating 
with unions.
The interview came as Mr de Juniac was finalising the group's new five-year strategy, announced yesterday, which 
focuses on more than doubling the Transavia fleet across Europe.
The group will invest EUR1bn in Transavia, expanding the fleet from 47 aircraft currently to 100 in 2017 and 115 by 
2019. Expansion will include three new bases outside France and the Netherlands, with two likely in Portugal and 
one in Germany, as Transavia focuses on flying holidaymakers to their destinations.
Mr de Juniac wants to increase Transavia France's fleet from 14 to 35 aircraft, but that is conditional on an 
agreement with the unions.
"If we cannot find an agreement on Transavia France, we will stay as we are with 14 planes, we will stop all new 
projects with Transavia France, and we will develop Transavia Europe," he says.
The planned strike by the French pilots union highlights the existential threat facing the flag carrier groups - notably 
Air France-KLM and Lufthansa - as they attempt to expand their fledgling budget airlines and win back market 
share.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, says the efforts by flag carriers to compete on cost are "doomed to 
failure" because of legacy issues - such as collective bargaining agreements with unions and large pension 
liabilities.
Ryanair operates at about 3.3 euro cents per available seat kilometre - a measure of unit cost, or efficiency - 
compared with 4.9 cents at Transavia and 7 cents at Air France-KLM's mainline businesses, according to analysts 
at Oddo Securities.
Jamie Baker, analyst at JPMorgan, says flag carriers face difficulties when establishing a budget airline within the 
group, adding it involves a shift towards a low-cost mindset. This is "not unlike trying to convert the religiously 
devout", he says.
Partly for this reason, Mr Baker praises the move last year by IAG, parent of British Airways and Iberia, to take over 
Vueling, a Barcelona-based low-cost airline. He says it is better for legacy carriers to buy a budget airline than 
create their own.
The problems for flag carriers were highlighted on Wednesday at Lufthansa, where pilots went on strike for the third 
time in two weeks over company proposals to raise the early retirement age. The strikes have caused huge 
disruption, and people close to the German airline group suspect the root cause of the industrial action is new chief 
executive Carsten Spohr's plan to launch more low-cost, short-haul services in Europe, and a no-frills long-haul 
airline.
One reason for Mr Spohr's interest in establishing a long-haul, budget airline is competition from Gulf carriers. 
Emirates Airline, the fast-growing Dubai-based carrier, enjoys cost advantages such as low landing charges at its 
home airport. "I have to make a trade-off between our long-term perspectives and short-term burdens," said Mr 
Spohr on Wednesday. "If conflict is needed for change, I regret that, but the reasons that force us to change won't 
go away."
Air France-KLM, also grappling with competition from the Gulf carriers, turned an operating profit for the first time in 
three years in 2013 as restructuring started to bite, but still lost EUR1.8bn at the bottom line.
Mr de Juniac is hoping Transavia can contribute to Air France-KLM's earnings recovery, and is convinced that 
despite issues with the unions, the low-cost unit can succeed in its battle with the budget airlines.
Air France raises stakes in pilot dispute
He adds the group would be "offensive as well as defensive" in fighting back against rivals, doing "everything we 
can to stop, and to reconquer, to regain market share as fast as possible from the low-cost players".
But Yan Derocles, analyst at Oddo Securities, injects a dose of caution. "The best that Lufthansa and Air France-
KLM can hope for are defensive moves against the low-cost players. The unions and other legacy issues make it 
very hard to really compete."
See Lex
Load-Date: September 12, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches Birmingham summer 2015 schedule
Ryanair launches Birmingham summer 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 12, 2014 Friday 7:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 145 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has launched its Birmingham summer 2015 schedule with 21 routes in total including 
Barcelona, Faro and Malta.
Body
Ryanair's Birmingham summer 2015 schedule will deliver: 91 weekly return flights; 1.2m customers; and 1,200 "on-
site" jobs p.a. Birmingham Airport. Ryanair will continue to connect Birmingham with some of Europe's major 
business centres, including Dublin (4 x daily) & Barcelona (6 x weekly). Ryanair's Maria Macken said: "Ryanair 
customers in the Midlands can choose from 21 routes from Birmingham next summer, while enjoying allocated 
seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding passes, 
Family Extra and Business Plus, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, business and leisure travellers. "To 
celebrate the launch of our Birmingham summer 2015 schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale across our 
European network, at prices from GBP19.99 for travel in October, November, December and January."
Load-Date: September 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches Bristol summer 2015 schedule
Ryanair launches Bristol summer 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 12, 2014 Friday 2:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 149 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited, an Irish low-cost airline, has launched its Bristol summer 2015 schedule with 28 routes 
in total including Alicante, Lanzarote and Tenerife.
Body
Ryanair's Bristol summer 2015 schedule will deliver: increased frequency to Budapest from 2 to 3 p/w; 113 weekly 
return flights; 1.2m customers; 1,200 "on-site" jobs p.a. at Bristol Airport. Ryanair will continue to connect Bristol 
with Europe's major business centres, including Dublin (3 x daily) & Barcelona (1 x daily). Ryanair's Maria Macken 
said: "Ryanair customers in the South West can choose from 28 routes from Bristol next summer, while enjoying 
allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding 
passes, Family Extra and Business Plus, making Ryanair the ideal choice for families, business and leisure 
travellers. "To celebrate the launch of our Bristol summer 2015 schedule, we are releasing 100,000 seats for sale 
across our European network, at prices from GBP19.99 for travel in October, November, December and January."
Load-Date: September 18, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair selling more seats per flight Airline
Ryanair selling more seats per flight; Airline
Business World (Digest)
September 11, 2014 Thursday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 380 words
Highlight: Ryanair is flying at least six more passengers per flight this year than in 2013, thanks to improvements in 
customer service and the way it sells tickets, its chief financial officer said on Wednesday.
Body
Ryanair is flying at least six more passengers per flight this year than in 2013, thanks to improvements in customer 
service and the way it sells tickets, its chief financial officer said on Wednesday.
The Irish airline, Europe's largest low-cost carrier, expects load factors to increase 3-4 percentage points to "close 
to 86 percent" of available seats this year, Howard Millar told reporters in Dublin.
An increase of 3-4 percentage points on Ryanair's fleet of Boeing 737s, which fly 189 passengers each, would 
represent between six and seven more passengers per flight.
But Millar said higher ticket sales would be partially offset by lower fares thanks to increased capacity this winter. 
Senior executives were speaking to reporters after the first delivery of an order of up to 380 Boeing jets over the 
next decade that could lift the airline's passengers from 82 million a year to 150 million. Chief Executive Michael 
O'Leary told the briefing that as the new capacity comes on line, fares were likely to fall by about 20 percent over 
the next five years, after adjusting for inflation, and by up to 40 percent by 2024. Forward bookings in each month 
between September and January rose 4-5 percentage points after the airline began to sell tickets a year in advance 
late last year, instead of nine months, he said. Ryanair said in July it expected profit after tax for the year to March 
2015 of 620-650 million euros. Ryanair plans to pursue a takeover of Cyprus Air, with the aim of setting up hub to 
serve the Middle East. But O'Leary said he thought Greek rival Aegean was more likely to succeed in its bid to use 
the airline to feed traffic to Athens. "On balance it's more likely to go to Greece, but we'll make it difficult for them by 
offering very rapid growth," he said. Ryanair has completed all the paperwork required to start its first routes to 
Russia, with proposed flights from Dublin to Moscow and St. Petersburg, O'Leary said. But he said the project was 
on hold because Ireland's tourist board has refused to contribute to the marketing budget on what would likely be a 
loss-making route for the first three years. If an agreement can be reached, flights could begin in the summer of 
2015 at the earliest, he said. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair selling more seats per flight Airline
Load-Date: September 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair takes delivery of 180 new Boeing 737-800 NG aircraft
Ryanair takes delivery of 180 new Boeing 737-800 NG aircraft
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 11, 2014 Thursday 2:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPONENTS & MAINTENANCE
Length: 295 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited, an Irish low-cost airline, has taken delivery of the first of its 180 new Boeing 737-800 
NG order, worth $16 billion at current list prices.
Body
The aircraft touched down in Dublin Airport, flown from Boeing Field, Seattle, by Ryanair Chief Pilot, Capt Ray 
Conway. Ryanair will take 20 further 737-800 NG aircraft deliveries between September 2014 and July 2015, which 
will enable the airline to open more routes and additional frequencies on existing routes for Summer 2015. On 
Monday, Ryanair signed an agreement with Boeing to purchase up to 200 new Boeing 737 MAX 200 
"gamechanger" aircraft (100 firm & 100 options). When finalised and all options exercised, this deal will be worth 
over $22bn at current list prices. Ryanair becomes the lead customer for this new aircraft which for Ryanair will 
feature 197 seats (8 more than Ryanair's existing 737-800s) and new CFM LEAP-1B engines, which combined with 
aerodynamic improvements will reduce fuel consumption by up to 18% in Ryanair's configuration and reduce 
operational noise emissions by 40%. In Dublin, Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "We are delighted to take delivery 
of the first of our 180 new Boeing 737-800 aircraft. 
These new Boeing aircraft enable Ryanair to keep the fleet average age below 5 years, while providing our 
customers with unmatched punctuality, reliability and an improved customer experience. We will have 21 more 
aircraft for Summer 2015 which will allow Ryanair to offer more new routes and increased frequencies to more 
customers than ever before. "Ryanair operates the largest fleet of Boeing airplanes in Europe and we are proud 
and honoured to become the lead operator of Boeing's "gamechanger" 737 MAX 200 aircraft which will expand our 
fleet to 520 aircraft by 2024 and create another 3,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in Europe, while 
allowing us to grow traffic from 82m last year to over 150m p.a. by FY2024."
Load-Date: September 17, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches Liverpool summer 2015 schedule
Ryanair launches Liverpool summer 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 11, 2014 Thursday 2:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 172 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited, an Irish low-cost airline, has launched its Liverpool summer 2015 schedule with 32 
routes and increased frequencies to Bratislava and Krakow.
Body
Ryanair's Liverpool summer 2015 schedule will deliver: 122 weekly return flights; 1.5m customers p.a. in total; and 
1,500 "on-site" jobs p.a. UK customers can choose from 32 routes from Liverpool next summer, while enjoying 
allocated seating, a free second carry-on bag, reduced fees, a new website, a brand new app with mobile boarding 
passes and Family Extra service. Ryanair will continue to connect Liverpool with Europe's major business centres, 
including Barcelona (1 x daily) and Dublin (3 x daily). In Liverpool, Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: "UK consumers 
already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. Now they can 
also book their summer 2015 flights even earlier on our improved website and great new app, carry a free small 2nd 
carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their 
personal electronic devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the 
lowest fares."
Load-Date: September 17, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair launches Manchester summer 2015 schedule
Ryanair launches Manchester summer 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 11, 2014 Thursday 2:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 169 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited, an Irish low-cost airline, has launched its Manchester summer 2015 schedule with new 
routes to Eindhoven and Shannon.
Body
Ryanair's Manchester summer 2015 schedule will deliver: 37 Manchester routes in total; more flights & improved 
schedules on 3 other routes: Alicante, Lisbon, Madrid; 204 weekly return flights; over 300,000 new customers (2.7m 
customers p.a. in total); and 2,700 "on-site" jobs p.a. Ryanair will continue to connect Manchester with Europe's 
major business centres, including Barcelona (10 x weekly), Brussels (12 x weekly), Dublin (4 x daily) and Madrid (5 
x weekly). In Manchester, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "UK consumers already choose 
Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. Now they can also book their 
summer 2015 flights even earlier on our improved website and great new app, carry a free small 2nd carry-on bag, 
enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their personal electronic 
devices at all stages of their flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: September 17, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair needs a flight of imagination
Ryanair needs a flight of imagination
Financial Times (London, England)
September 11, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 8
Length: 129 words
Body
From Mr Firdaus Ruttonshaw.
Sir, Given their avowed policy of making the flying experience as miserable as possible I am surprised that Ryanair 
are thinking of merely fitting more seats on the new Boeings they have ordered instead of dispensing with traditional 
seating altogether (" Ryanair signals fresh expansion with $11bn deal for Boeing 737s ", September 9).
Michael O'Leary appears to lack imagination. One idea from my youth in 1950s India, flying on cargo planes 
converted when the occasion arose to transport passengers, would be to replace seats with benches like church 
pews. Arm rests would go, enabling the airline to cram in eight passengers across instead of the usual six thus 
increasing capacity and profitability dramatically.
Firdaus Ruttonshaw,
London W8, UK
Load-Date: September 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair's 1st delivery from US16bn order; Ryanair Aircraft
Ryanair's 1st delivery from US16bn order; Ryanair Aircraft
Business World (Digest)
September 10, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 330 words
Highlight: Ryanair today took delivery of the first of its 180 new Boeing 737-800 NG order, which is worth dollar 16 
billion in total at current list prices.
Body
Ryanair today took delivery of the first of its 180 new Boeing 737-800 NG order, which is worth dollar 16 billion in 
total at current list prices.
The aircraft touched down in Dublin Airport, flown from Boeing Field, Seattle, by Ryanair Chief Pilot, Capt Ray 
Conway.
Ryanair will take 20 further 737-800 NG aircraft deliveries between September 2014 and July 2015, which will 
enable the airline to open more routes and additional frequencies on existing routes for Summer 2015.
On Monday, Ryanair signed an agreement with Boeing to purchase up to 200 new Boeing 737 MAX 200 
"gamechanger" aircraft (100 firm orders and 100 options). When finalised and all options exercised, this deal will be 
worth over dollar 22bn at current list prices. Ryanair becomes the lead customer for this new aircraft which for 
Ryanair will feature 197 seats (8 more than Ryanair's existing 737-800s) and new CFM LEAP-1B engines, which 
combined with aerodynamic improvements will reduce fuel consumption by up to 18pc in Ryanair's configuration 
and reduce operational noise emissions by 40pc. In Dublin, Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "We are delighted to 
take delivery of the first of our 180 new Boeing 737-800 aircraft. These new Boeing aircraft enable Ryanair to keep 
the fleet average age below 5 years, while providing our customers with unmatched punctuality, reliability and an 
improved customer experience. We will have 21 more aircraft for Summer 2015 which will allow Ryanair to offer 
more new routes and increased frequencies to more customers than ever before." "Ryanair operates the largest 
fleet of Boeing airplanes in Europe and we are proud and honoured to become the lead operator of Boeing's 
"gamechanger" 737 MAX 200 aircraft which will expand our fleet to 520 aircraft by 2024 and create another 3,000 
new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in Europe, while allowing us to grow traffic from 82m last year to over 
150m p.a. by FY2024," he added. For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair's 1st delivery from US16bn order; Ryanair Aircraft
Load-Date: September 15, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to purchase up to 200 Boeing 737 MAX 200 aircraft
Ryanair to purchase up to 200 Boeing 737 MAX 200 aircraft
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 10, 2014 Wednesday 1:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 529 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has signed an agreement with Boeing to purchase up to 200 new Boeing 737 MAX 200 
aircraft.
Body
The airline has placed firm order for 100 planes, with options to acquire a further 100. When finalised and all 
options exercised, this deal will be worth over $22bn at current list prices. Ryanair becomes the lead customer for 
this new aircraft which for Ryanair will feature 197 seats (8 more than Ryanair's existing 737-800s) and new CFM 
LEAP-1B engines, which combined with aerodynamic improvements will reduce fuel consumption by up to 18% in 
Ryanair's configuration and reduce operational noise emissions by 40%. This will further reduce Ryanair's industry 
leading low costs, and these savings will be passed on via lower fares to Ryanair's customers, which will now grow 
from 82m in 2014 to over 150m customers p.a. by the end of the delivery stream in FY2024. These new Boeing 737 
MAX 200s contain new features which will significantly lower Ryanair's operating costs, including: 197 seats (8 
more than Ryanair's existing 189 seat fleet); new Boeing Sky Interior to enhance customers' onboard experience; 
new slimline seats which will provide more leg room (avg. over 30 inches); and new CFM LEAP-1B engines, which 
combined with the Advanced Technology winglet and other aerodynamic improvements, will reduce fuel 
consumption by up to 18% in Ryanair's configuration and reduce operational noise emissions by 40%. Ryanair 
enters into this new aircraft agreement, the day before it takes delivery of the first of 180 new Boeing 737-800 
aircraft. 
The current 180 aircraft order will see Ryanair's fleet grow from 304 to 420 (allowing for lease returns), and traffic 
rise from 82m last year to over 112m by 2019. Announcing the new Boeing 737 MAX 200 order, Ryanair's CEO 
Michael O'Leary said: "Ryanair is proud and honoured to become the lead operator of Boeing's "gamechanger" 737 
MAX 200 aircraft which will expand our fleet to 520 aircraft by 2024 and create another 3,000 new jobs for pilots, 
cabin crew and engineers in Europe, while allowing us to grow traffic from 82m last year to over 150m p.a. by 
FY2024. "These new "gamechanger" aircraft will allow Ryanair to lower our costs and airfares, while improving our 
customer experience with more leg room and the Boeing Sky Interior, as we roll out new offers, particularly for our 
Business Plus and Family Extra customers. As many of Europe's flag carriers cut capacity on short haul routes, 
Ryanair looks forward to using these new Boeing 737 MAX 200 aircraft to grow at many more of Europe's primary 
Ryanair to purchase up to 200 Boeing 737 MAX 200 aircraft
airports. "As I travel to Seattle tomorrow (9th September) to take delivery of the first of our 180 new Boeing Next-
Generation 737-800 aircraft, I'm proud that Ryanair operates the largest fleet of Boeing airplanes in Europe, that we 
will grow over the next decade to 150m customers annually, while at the same time cutting our fuel consumption by 
18% and operational noise emissions by 40%. We will also create more than 3,000 new jobs and exciting promotion 
opportunities for Ryanair's pilots, cabin crew and engineers. Ryanair is proud to be chosen by Boeing as the lead 
operator of Boeing's new "gamechanger" 737 MAX 200 and we're proud to be investing over $22bn in high quality 
US manufacturing and jobs."
Load-Date: September 16, 2014
End of Document
Ryainair wants to grow and expand Airline
Ryainair wants to grow and expand; Airline
Business World (Digest)
September 9, 2014 Tuesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 499 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe's largest low-cost carrier, signed a deal on Monday to buy 100 Boeing Co 
737 MAX jetliners for up to dollar 11 billion, launching a new version of the single-aisle plane that will allow it to 
squeeze in more passengers.
Body
Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe's largest low-cost carrier, signed a deal on Monday to buy 100 Boeing Co 737 MAX 
jetliners for up to dollar 11 billion, launching a new version of the single-aisle plane that will allow it to squeeze in 
more passengers.
The Irish airline also secured options on 100 more of the modified 737 MAX 8s, dubbed the 737 MAX 200 because 
it can seat up to 200 passengers, bringing the value of the deal to about dollar 22 billion, if all the options are 
exercised.
Ryanair's chief executive officer, Michael O'Leary, said he aimed for the airline to carry 150 million passengers a 
year by 2024, up from an earlier target of 120 million and up from the about 82 million passengers it carried in 2013. 
He said Ryanair intends to exercise all the options because the 200 new planes are key to achieving its target 
growth.
Ryanair already is the largest airline in Europe, and O'Leary said the new Boeing planes will further cut Ryanair's 
operating costs, allowing it to take market share from legacy carriers such as Lufthansa, SAS, British Airways and 
Alitalia. "It means that we're going to expand and grow very strongly in Europe, both in new markets and in going in 
and taking traffic away from incumbent carriers," he said at a press conference in New York where he and Boeing 
Commercial Airplanes Chief Executive Ray Conner signed the deal. "I hope it will hasten in an era of a new price 
war in Europe over the next 10 years, which like all the old price wars, Ryanair will win." O'Leary said the new 
planes, which will have two additional doors, will seat eight more passengers than the 737-800 models currently in 
Ryanair's fleet. The planes reduce fuel consumption by about 18 percent compared with current models, and with 
the additional seats the cost would be about 20 percent lower, O'Leary said. O'Leary said the extra seats would 
generate about 1 million euros of additional revenue per plane per year, most of which will go to the bottom line. 
Ryainair wants to grow and expand Airline
Last year Ryanair placed a dollar 15.6 billion order for 175 Boeing 737-800 jets, but O'Leary said in July he would 
keep that order, even as he studied the higher-density MAX version. Reuters reported on Friday that Ryanair was in 
advanced talks to order at least 100 MAX jetliners. Boeing shares rose 2.6 percent to dollar 127.94. Ryanair's stock 
closed down 0.1 percent to 7.483 pounds. Boeing's Conner said low-cost carriers could eventually make up 35 
percent of the market for single-aisle airplanes. Boeing's chief 737 competitor, Airbus Group's A320, also is getting 
refreshed with new engines. O'Leary said the new MAX jets would not allow Ryanair to offer transatlantic service, 
because the range is not sufficient to reach enough U.S. cities. Ryanair has a plan to operate a long-haul service as 
a subsidiary, but needs 30 to 50 long-haul aircraft to make it work. "The availability (of those jets) just isn't there for 
another four or five years," O'Leary said. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 11, 2014
End of Document
After 'Boris Island': 10 other airport follies Our list of airports that never were, fell short of expectations or are 
still waiting for the go-ahead
After 'Boris Island': 10 other airport follies; Our list of airports that never 
were, fell short of expectations or are still waiting for the go-ahead
Flight International
September 9, 2014
Copyright 2014 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL
Length: 822 words
Body
The UK's Airports Commission has rejected a plan for a new hub airport in the Thames Estuary. Here's our list of 
airports that never were, fell short of expectations or are still waiting for the go-ahead.
1. London Maplin Sands
The original Thames Estuary airport was proposed by the early 1970s Edward Heath government as the capital's 
new gateway. To be situated on the north side of the estuary and joined to London with rail and motorway links, a 
deep harbour would have made Maplin a multi-modal transport hub. But the proposal was environmentally 
contentious and the Labour government elected in 1974 abandoned the plan, deciding that Heathrow, Gatwick and 
Stansted had enough capacity until 1990.
2. Dubai World Central
Dubai Airports
Unveiled in 2006, the development in the desert behind the Gulf city's Jebel Ali industrial zone was touted as the 
world's first mega-airport, with a capacity of 120 million passengers. After delays prompted by Dubai's financial 
crisis, the airport eventually opened fully in 2013, and saw a brief surge in traffic this year when a runway 
redevelopment at Dubai International forced airlines to relocate temporarily. But the airport is growing only modestly 
and original plans to replace Dubai International as the city's main airport this decade seem a long way off. So too 
appears any move by Emirates to relocate its operations to DWC.
3. London Cublington
In the late 1960s, this small airfield in Buckinghamshire was proposed by the government's Roskill Commission as 
a new hub for London. However, the commission opted for Maplin Sands instead.
4. Don Quixote, Cuidad Real
After 'Boris Island': 10 other airport follies Our list of airports that never were, fell short of expectations or are 
still waiting for the go-ahead
Opened in 2008 just as Spain's property boom was peaking, the privately-owned airport was intended as an 
overflow for Madrid. However, with a local population of just 70,000, the airport failed to attract airlines or 
passengers in any numbers and the pull-out of Air Berlin and Ryanair left just four flights a week by 2011, when the 
airport closed.
5. New Lisbon airport
In the mid-2000s when, like its neighbour Spain, Portugal was enjoying a property and economic boom, politicians 
unveiled plans for a new Lisbon airport at Ota that would replace the current state-owned airport on the edge of the 
city some time this decade. In 2008 the location of the proposed new airport was moved to Alcochete, but the 
country has failed to settle on a budget or timescale as yet.
6. Mirabel, Montreal
Rex Features
Opened ahead of the 1976 Olympics as Montreal's new hub, Mirabel has become arguably the biggest airport white 
elephant in history. At the time, Mirabel was intended to become the largest airport in the world and replace the 
current gateway at Dorval. In an effort to promote the new airport, the government legislated that all international 
flights into Montreal had to use Mirabel. But many carriers decided to simply bypass Montreal and fly to Toronto 
instead. Today, Mirabel is used as a flight test base by Bombardier.
7. London Kings Cross
One of the strangest airport proposals ever must be architect Charles Glover's 1931 blueprint for a wheel-shaped 
airport on top of London's Kings Cross station. Small aircraft would land on and take off from the mile-long spokes 
of the wheel, while the outer hub would be used for taxiing. The airport would connect to the trains and 
businessmen - the main airline users of the era - would take lifts up to the departure points. Needless to say, the 
plan failed to gather momentum.
8. MidAmerica airport, St Louis
Criticised as a piece of pork barrel funding and  the gateway to nowhere", the airport on a former air force base was 
intended to give St Louis a second major airport. Allegiant Air is the only significant carrier to operate from there.
9. Badgerys Creek, Sydney
Arguments have raged for decades over whether Australia's largest city needs a second airport and, if so, where to 
build it. Badgerys Creek, 55km (34 miles) west of the city, remains the favourite. Proponents of the development 
were knocked back when the federal government this year approved the current international airport's 20-year 
blueprint to take it to 74 million passengers by 2033. However, there are still those who believe that in the longer-
term a larger airport will be needed.
10. Prestwick, Scotland
Rex Features
The fog-free microclimate on the Ayrshire coast meant that until the 1980s, Prestwick was the only airport in 
Scotland allowed to operate transatlantic flights - which gave it considerable prestige as the nation's gateway to 
North America. However, Prestwick has endured fluctuating fortunes as it has battled to attract and retain low-cost 
airlines such as Ryanair in recent years, and the loss-making airport was taken into public ownership by the 
Scottish government for  1 in 2013. The administration has unveiled a strategy to grow the airport's traffic, but plans 
to support it with taxpayers' money has met with opposition from the owners of Glasgow and Edinburgh airports.
After 'Boris Island': 10 other airport follies Our list of airports that never were, fell short of expectations or are 
still waiting for the go-ahead
Load-Date: October 13, 2014
End of Document
After 'Boris Island': 10 other airport follies Our list of airports that never were, fell short of expectations or are 
still waiting for the go-ahead
After 'Boris Island': 10 other airport follies; Our list of airports that never 
were, fell short of expectations or are still waiting for the go-ahead
Flight International
September 9, 2014
Copyright 2014 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHT INTERNATIONAL
Length: 822 words
Body
The UK's Airports Commission has rejected a plan for a new hub airport in the Thames Estuary. Here's our list of 
airports that never were, fell short of expectations or are still waiting for the go-ahead.
1. London Maplin Sands
The original Thames Estuary airport was proposed by the early 1970s Edward Heath government as the capital's 
new gateway. To be situated on the north side of the estuary and joined to London with rail and motorway links, a 
deep harbour would have made Maplin a multi-modal transport hub. But the proposal was environmentally 
contentious and the Labour government elected in 1974 abandoned the plan, deciding that Heathrow, Gatwick and 
Stansted had enough capacity until 1990.
2. Dubai World Central
Dubai Airports
Unveiled in 2006, the development in the desert behind the Gulf city's Jebel Ali industrial zone was touted as the 
world's first mega-airport, with a capacity of 120 million passengers. After delays prompted by Dubai's financial 
crisis, the airport eventually opened fully in 2013, and saw a brief surge in traffic this year when a runway 
redevelopment at Dubai International forced airlines to relocate temporarily. But the airport is growing only modestly 
and original plans to replace Dubai International as the city's main airport this decade seem a long way off. So too 
appears any move by Emirates to relocate its operations to DWC.
3. London Cublington
In the late 1960s, this small airfield in Buckinghamshire was proposed by the government's Roskill Commission as 
a new hub for London. However, the commission opted for Maplin Sands instead.
4. Don Quixote, Cuidad Real
After 'Boris Island': 10 other airport follies Our list of airports that never were, fell short of expectations or are 
still waiting for the go-ahead
Opened in 2008 just as Spain's property boom was peaking, the privately-owned airport was intended as an 
overflow for Madrid. However, with a local population of just 70,000, the airport failed to attract airlines or 
passengers in any numbers and the pull-out of Air Berlin and Ryanair left just four flights a week by 2011, when the 
airport closed.
5. New Lisbon airport
In the mid-2000s when, like its neighbour Spain, Portugal was enjoying a property and economic boom, politicians 
unveiled plans for a new Lisbon airport at Ota that would replace the current state-owned airport on the edge of the 
city some time this decade. In 2008 the location of the proposed new airport was moved to Alcochete, but the 
country has failed to settle on a budget or timescale as yet.
6. Mirabel, Montreal
Rex Features
Opened ahead of the 1976 Olympics as Montreal's new hub, Mirabel has become arguably the biggest airport white 
elephant in history. At the time, Mirabel was intended to become the largest airport in the world and replace the 
current gateway at Dorval. In an effort to promote the new airport, the government legislated that all international 
flights into Montreal had to use Mirabel. But many carriers decided to simply bypass Montreal and fly to Toronto 
instead. Today, Mirabel is used as a flight test base by Bombardier.
7. London Kings Cross
One of the strangest airport proposals ever must be architect Charles Glover's 1931 blueprint for a wheel-shaped 
airport on top of London's Kings Cross station. Small aircraft would land on and take off from the mile-long spokes 
of the wheel, while the outer hub would be used for taxiing. The airport would connect to the trains and 
businessmen - the main airline users of the era - would take lifts up to the departure points. Needless to say, the 
plan failed to gather momentum.
8. MidAmerica airport, St Louis
Criticised as a piece of pork barrel funding and “the gateway to nowhere", the airport on a former air force base was 
intended to give St Louis a second major airport. Allegiant Air is the only significant carrier to operate from there.
9. Badgerys Creek, Sydney
Arguments have raged for decades over whether Australia's largest city needs a second airport and, if so, where to 
build it. Badgerys Creek, 55km (34 miles) west of the city, remains the favourite. Proponents of the development 
were knocked back when the federal government this year approved the current international airport's 20-year 
blueprint to take it to 74 million passengers by 2033. However, there are still those who believe that in the longer-
term a larger airport will be needed.
10. Prestwick, Scotland
Rex Features
The fog-free microclimate on the Ayrshire coast meant that until the 1980s, Prestwick was the only airport in 
Scotland allowed to operate transatlantic flights - which gave it considerable prestige as the nation's gateway to 
North America. However, Prestwick has endured fluctuating fortunes as it has battled to attract and retain low-cost 
airlines such as Ryanair in recent years, and the loss-making airport was taken into public ownership by the 
Scottish government for £1 in 2013. The administration has unveiled a strategy to grow the airport's traffic, but 
plans to support it with taxpayers' money has met with opposition from the owners of Glasgow and Edinburgh 
airports.
After 'Boris Island': 10 other airport follies Our list of airports that never were, fell short of expectations or are 
still waiting for the go-ahead
Load-Date: September 11, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair signals expansion with $11bn deal TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair signals expansion with $11bn deal; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
September 9, 2014 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 22
Length: 731 words
Byline: Robert Wright and Jane Wild
Highlight: News analysis
O'Leary persuades Boeing chiefs to go beyond 189 seats, say Robert Wright and Jane Wild
Body
Ryanair is to buy at least 100 of Boeing's next generation short-haul aircraft that will seat up to 200 people, in a 
$11bn deal that Europe's largest low-cost airline insisted would be a "game-changer".
The announcement yesterday is the culmination of years of efforts by Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, to 
persuade the US aircraft manufacturer to expand its best-selling single-aisle passenger jet beyond 189 seats.
The order for 100 of Boeing's 737 Max aircraft featuring more fuel-efficient engines - with options for a further 100 
of these passenger jets - signals Mr O'Leary's determination to maintain Ryanair's expansion, in spite of recording 
its first profit decline in five years in 2013-14.
Last year, he pledged a sweeping overhaul of Ryanair's much-criticised customer service.
The new aircraft - to be delivered between 2019 and 2023 - formed part of a plan to increase Ryanair's fleet from 
308 aircraft at present to 520 by 2024 and to grow passenger numbers from 80m to 150m over the same period, Mr 
O'Leary said.
Ryanair signals expansion with $11bn deal TRAVEL & LEISURE
"It's going to mark a step change in Ryanair's efficiency," he said of the new aircraft. "It means we're going to 
continue growing very quickly in Europe."
Ryanair is currently preparing to take delivery of the first of 175 of Boeing's current generation 737 short-haul 
aircraft - called 737-800s - that it ordered in March 2013.
Aircraft in this deal hold 189 passengers each, compared to 180 in the largest A320 short-haul jet by Airbus, 
Boeing's main international rival.
Ryanair intends to fit 197 passengers into each of the 737 Max aircraft by taking away space from galleys the airline 
leaves unused.
The 100 737 Max jets are worth about $11bn at catalogue prices, from which airlines typically negotiate steep 
discounts.
Mr O'Leary said the airline was paying a "slight premium" per seat, but the capacity for eight additional passengers 
meant that each jet would generate $1m in extra revenue each year, justifying the price.
The 737 Max is designed to achieve fuel savings of up to 20 per cent compared with current aircraft, largely thanks 
to its Leap engine from CFM, a venture between General Electric and France's Snecma.
"I've always said to Ray, 'If you build the extra seats, we'll pay extra per seat for them'," Mr O'Leary said at a news 
conference in New York with Ray Conner, Boeing's head of commercial aircraft.
The improvements would bring in a new series of airline price wars in Europe, Mr O'Leary predicted. "Like all the 
old price wars, Ryanair will win," he said.
Ryanair has been a dedicated customer of Boeing's throughout its breakneck expansion under Mr O'Leary, who 
has transformed the company into Europe's largest low-cost carrier by revenue.
Mr O'Leary said the company had spoken to Airbus about the possibility of a new, higher-capacity variant of the 
A320 but that the European manufacturer had not tried very hard to solve the problems, probably because it knew 
Ryanair was so close to Boeing.
Mr Conner said Boeing expected budget airlines to account for 35 per cent of narrow-body aircraft capacity by 
2033. He refused to be drawn on which other low-cost carriers might order the 200-seat variant but said it was the 
"perfect" option for any company seeking to carry large numbers of passengers in the all-economy class 
configuration.
Ryanair has suffered during its rapid growth from a perception that its no-frills approach made it unpleasant to fly 
with the airline.
The company has sought to counter that with a push, among other initiatives, to lure business class customers . Mr 
O'Leary said customers would be more comfortable in the new aircraft because new, thinner seats would offer more 
legroom.
He added that the company planned to expand by taking over routes that existing flag carrier airlines such as Italy's 
Alitalia and Scandinavia's SAS are abandoning.
Stephen Furlong, an analyst at Davy, which acts as broker to Ryanair, predicted most of the airline's growth over 
the next decade would be in its "core markets - UK, France, Germany, Spain, Scandinavia".
Oliver Sleath, an airlines analyst at Barclays, called Ryanair's order part of a "strategic shift".
"In parallel with its customer service improvements, Ryanair is increasingly adding mainstream routes, going into 
bigger airports . . . and taking passengers more directly off the legacy carriers," he said.
Ryanair signals expansion with $11bn deal TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair's shares fell 0.85 per cent to EUR7.48.
Load-Date: September 8, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair orders up to 200 planes worth huge $22bn from Boeing
Ryanair orders up to 200 planes worth huge $22bn from Boeing
City A.M.
September 9, 2014 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 223 words
Byline: THOMAS FITZGERALD
Body
IRISH budget airline Ryanair has made a deal with massive US aerospace company Boeing for up to 200 of its 737 
Max planes, in a deal that could be worth up to $22bn (£13.7bn) in total.
The deal will see Ryanair commit to buy 100 of the new 737 Max 200 series, valued at $11bn at current list prices, 
with the option to buy another 100 of the planes.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said "These new 'gamechanger' aircraft will allow Ryanair to lower our 
costs and airfares, while improving our customer experience."
"I hope it will hasten in an era of a new price war in Europe over the next 10 years, which like all the old price wars, 
Ryanair will win." he said at the press conference in New York where the deal was announced yesterday.
The plane is a modification of Boeing's 737 Max 8 aircraft, modified to provide up to 200 seats, and providing up to 
20 percent better fuel efficiency per seat than the most efficient single-aisle airplanes today, according to Boeing.
Boeing chief executive Ray Conner said "The 737 Max 200 is the perfect fit for Ryanair, providing improved 
efficiencies, 20 per cent lower emissions, increased revenues and a high level of passenger comfort."
Ryanair said it will take delivery of the new planes from 2019, and expects them to help it grow its passenger 
numbers from 82m in 2014 to over 150m by 2024.
Load-Date: September 9, 2014
Ryanair orders up to 200 planes worth huge $22bn from Boeing
End of Document
Ryanair commits to order 100 737 MAX 200 aircraft
Ryanair commits to order 100 737 MAX 200 aircraft
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 8, 2014 Monday 3:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 257 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
NEW YORK (AP) - European airline Ryanair has committed to order 100 of Boeing's 737 MAX 200 airplanes, 
valued at $11 billion at current list prices.
Buyers often get steep discounts off list prices for passenger jets.
Ryanair has options to buy another 100 of the 737 MAX 200s as well.
The 737 MAX 200 is considered more fuel-efficient than most other current single-aisle airplanes and can 
accommodate up to 200 seats.
Ryanair runs more than 1,600 flights daily. CEO Michael O'Leary said in a statement on Monday that the 737 MAX 
200 order will allow Ryanair to reduce its costs and airfares. It will also expand Ryanair's fleet to 520 airplanes by 
2024 and create another 3,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in Europe, he added.
O'Leary anticipates the order helping Ryanair increase its traffic to more than 150 million annually by 2024. Its 2013 
traffic totaled 82 million.
Stephen Levenson of Stifel Nicolaus said in a client note that since most of Ryanair's flights are less than 2.5 hours, 
the high density seating plan of the 737 MAX 200 is ideal for its operations.
The analyst also believes that any backlog growth concerns investors have for Boeing should be wiped away by the 
announcement of the Ryanair order. Levenson anticipates that even if Boeing's 2015 orders don't keep pace with 
the previous year, its outlook is still strong for earnings and cash flow growth in 2015, 2016 and the future.
Levenson maintained a "Buy" rating for Boeing Co.
The company's stock added $3.01, or 2.4 percent, to $127.70 in midday trading.
Load-Date: September 9, 2014
Ryanair commits to order 100 737 MAX 200 aircraft
End of Document
Ryanair in USD22bn deal with Boeing Ryanair Boeing
Ryanair in USD22bn deal with Boeing; Ryanair Boeing
Business World (Digest)
September 8, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 606 words
Highlight: Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost airline, has agreed to buy 100 Boeing Co 737 MAX 8 jetliners, the 
companies said today, with an option for 100 more planes for a total value of approximately dollar 22 billion.
Body
Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost airline, has agreed to buy 100 Boeing Co 737 MAX 8 jetliners, the companies 
said today, with an option for 100 more planes for a total value of approximately dollar 22 billion.
The jetliners, which can hold 11 more passengers than earlier 737s, are part of a push by the Irish airline to 
increase its annual passenger numbers by 50 percent to 120 million per year within a decade.
The deal for 100 jets would be worth about dollar 10.4 billion, at the 737 MAX 8's list price of dollar 104 million, but 
airlines usually negotiate steep discounts, particularly on large orders.
Last year Ryanair placed a dollar 15.6 billion order for 175 Boeing 737-800 jets, but Ryanair Chief Executive 
Michael O'Leary said in July he would maintain that order, even as he studied the higher-density MAX version. 
Reuters reported on Friday that Ryanair was in advanced talks to order at least 100 MAX 8 jetliners. Ryanair 
becomes the lead customer for this new aircraft which for Ryanair will feature 197 seats (8 more than Ryanair's 
existing 737-800s) and new CFM LEAP-1B engines, which combined with aerodynamic improvements will reduce 
fuel consumption by up to 18pc in Ryanair's configuration and reduce operational noise emissions by 40pc. This 
new agreement was signed by Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary, and Boeing Commercial Airplanes President and 
CEO Ray Conner, in New York this morning. Following approval by Ryanair's shareholders at an EGM in late 
November, this order will become Boeing's largest ever aircraft order from a European airline. It will sustain 
thousands of skilled manufacturing jobs in Boeing and its supplier companies and represents the largest ever 
capital investment by an Irish company in US manufacturing and jobs. Ryanair enters into this new aircraft 
agreement, the day before it takes delivery of the first of 180 new Boeing 737-800 aircraft. The current 180 aircraft 
order will see Ryanair's fleet grow from 304 to 420 (allowing for lease returns), and traffic rise from 82m last year to 
over 112m by 2019. Becoming the lead operator for the Boeing 737 MAX 200 aircraft secures Ryanair's future 
growth during the period 2019 to 2024 in which Ryanair's fleet will rise to 520 aircraft (allowing for sales and lease 
Ryanair in USD22bn deal with Boeing Ryanair Boeing
returns) while traffic almost doubles from 82m in FY2014 to 150m passengers p.a. by FY2024. Announcing the new 
Boeing 737 MAX 200 order, Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary said: "These new "gamechanger aircraft will allow 
Ryanair to lower our costs and airfares, while improving our customer experience with more leg room and the 
Boeing Sky Interior, as we roll out new offers, particularly for our Business Plus and Family Extra customers. As 
many of Europe's flag carriers cut capacity on short haul routes, Ryanair looks forward to using these new Boeing 
737 MAX 200 aircraft to grow at many more of Europe's primary airports." "As I travel to Seattle tomorrow (9th 
September) to take delivery of the first of our 180 new Boeing Next-Generation 737-800 aircraft, I'm proud that 
Ryanair operates the largest fleet of Boeing airplanes in Europe, that we will grow over the next decade to 150m 
customers annually, while at the same time cutting our fuel consumption by 18pc and operational noise emissions 
by 40pc. We will also create more than 3,000 new jobs and exciting promotion opportunities for Ryanair's pilots, 
cabin crew and engineers. Ryanair is proud to be chosen by Boeing as the lead operator of Boeing's new 
"gamechanger" 737 MAX 200 and we're proud to be investing over dollar 22bn in high quality US manufacturing 
and jobs." For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 11, 2014
End of Document
Here's Boeing 's Newest Jet, The 737 MAX 200
Here's Boeing's Newest Jet, The 737 MAX 200
International Business Times News
September 8, 2014 Monday 4:01 PM EST
Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 399 words
Byline: Alberto Riva
Body
Sep 08, 2014 (International Business Times News:http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)
 Boeing launched on Monday a new version of its most successful airplane, the 737, with an $11 billion order from 
Ryanair, Europe's biggest low-cost airline, which plans to buy as many 737 MAX 200 twinjets. 
 A statement from The Boeing Co. (NYSE:BA) said Ryanair placed an order for 100 airplanes and has options to 
purchase another 100.
 The MAX 200 will seat up to 200 passengers. It will feature the same size fuselage at the 737-800, but will allow for 
increased seating thanks to an extra emergency exit, which lets airlines put in more seats by making the evacuation 
of more passengers in an emergency possible. According to Boeing, the new plane will burn 20 percent less fuel 
per seat than the current most efficient single-aisle airplanes.
 This computer rendering of a 737 MAX 200 in Ryanair colors shows the extra passenger door that allows 
increased seating . Unlike regular 737s, the MAX 200 has two exits behind the wing, not one. That means more 
passengers can be evacuated during an emergency, and more seats can be squeezed into the same length 
fuselage. The Boeing Co. 
 Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said in a statement that, with the new order, the airline plans to operate 520 aircraft 
by 2024 and create 3,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in Europe. Ryanair is the biggest operator 
of the Boeing 737 in Europe and the second-biggest in the world after U.S.-based Southwest Airlines (NYSE:LUV). 
 The 737 MAX is a re-engined version, with other improvements, of the current 737 family, and will feature three 
basic models: the MAX 7, MAX 8 and MAX 9, in order of size. They are based on the current 737-700, 800 and 900 
models, and will carry up to 220 passengers over a range of 3,800 nautical miles (7,000 km). The MAX 200 will 
essentially be a larger-capacity MAX 8. 
 The first flight of a 737 MAX is scheduled for 2016, according to Boeing, with deliveries to customers beginning in 
2017. Customers have ordered 2,239 of the new airplanes to date.The 737 MAX's direct competitor, the Airbus 
A320neo, which was launched earlier than the Boeing model, is scheduled for a first flight this month and has 
already garnered more than 3,000 orders[1].
 [1]: http://www.airbus.com/presscentre/pressreleases/press-release-detail/detail/airbus-a320neo-surpasses-3000-
firm-orders/ 
Here's Boeing 's Newest Jet, The 737 MAX 200
Load-Date: September 8, 2014
End of Document
European Stocks Slide Ahead Of Scotland Independence Vote
European Stocks Slide Ahead Of Scotland Independence Vote
RTT News (United States)
September 8, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 339 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks fell on Monday ahead of a referendum on Scotland independence from the United 
Kingdom.
British banks struggled amid mounting speculation that Scotland will go its own way in a close vote.
Stocks slipped from last week's 2-month highs as Chinese growth concerns also weighed.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index was down 0.29 percent, trimming recent gains. Any exuberance over the European 
Central Bank's stimulus plan announced last week has fizzled out.
In Germany, the DAX was down 0.05 percent, London's FTSE 100 slipped 0.38 percent and the CAC 40 of France 
lost 0.31 percnet.
Lloyds Banking, Standard Life and Royal Bank of Scotland were lower on worries over Scotland operations.
In major corporate news, General Electric (GE) announced an agreement to sell its GE appliances business to 
Electrolux for $3.3 billion. The deal, which is approved by boards of both companies, is expected to close in 2015. 
Electolux shares rose 4 percent.
Associated British Foods affirmed its full year earnings guidance, premised on strong operating performances by its 
grocery business and Primark. Shares were down 4.8 percent.
FMC Corp. (FMC) said it has agreed to buy Denmark based crop protection company Cheminova for $1.8 billion in 
cash.
Ryanair announced it has ordered 100 planes from Boeing. Ryanair shares slipped 0.7 percent.
Roche said the European Union has approved the use of its drug RoActemra in patients with early rheumatoid 
arthritis.
On the economic front, the German Federal Statistical Office reported that the nation's trade surplus rose to 23.4 
billion euros in July, well ahead of the 17 billion euro surplus expected by economists, as year-over-year export 
growth accelerated to 8.5 percent, while imports unexpectedly fell.
European Stocks Slide Ahead Of Scotland Independence Vote
The country's current account surplus also increased more than expected. A separate report showed that labor 
costs in Germany rose 1.7 percent year-over-year in the second quarter.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 8, 2014
End of Document
Boeing Gains $11 Bln Order Commitment From Ryanair As It Launches 737 MAX 200
Boeing Gains $11 Bln Order Commitment From Ryanair As It Launches 737 
MAX 200
RTT News (United States)
September 8, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 741 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Aerospace giant Boeing, Inc. (BA) on Monday eked out an order commitment for 100 airplanes low-
cost Irish airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L) as it launched the newest member of the 737 MAX family, the 737 
MAX 200. The new aircraft model will have 11 additional seats that will lead to a total seating of up to 200.
"Ryanair is proud and honored to become the lead operator of Boeing's 'gamechanger' 737 MAX 200, which will 
expand our fleet to 520 aircraft by 2024 and create another 3,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in 
Europe, while allowing us to grow traffic from 82 million last year to over 150 million annually by 2024," Ryanair 
CEO Michael O'Leary said.
The order commitment is part of Ryanair's fleet expansion and is valued at $11 billion at current list prices. The 
airline also has options to purchase another 100 737 MAX 200s.
The 737 MAX 200 is a variant of the successful 737 MAX 8 that can accommodate up to 200 seats, which will 
increase revenue potential and providing customers up to 20 percent better fuel efficiency per seat than today's 
most efficient single-aisle airplanes. It will also lower operating costs by up to 5 percent than the 737 MAX 8.
Dublin-based Ryanair, Europe's largest budget airline, will be launch customer and the first airline to operate the 
737 MAX 200. Ryanair noted that the new "gamechanger" aircraft variant will enable it to lower costs and airfares, 
while improving customer experience with more leg room and the Boeing Sky Interior.
Ryanair said it looks forward to using these new Boeing 737 MAX 200s to grow at many more of Europe's primary 
airports even as many of Europe's flag carriers cut capacity on short haul routes.
As discussions went on to finalize a deal, Ryanair has been urging Boeing for the additional seats. Boeing is said to 
have agreed in July to build a 737 MAX 8 variant with 200 seats instead of the normal 189 seats.
Dublin-based Ryanair, Europe's largest budget airline, currently operates an all-Boeing fleet of more than 300 next-
generation 737-800s. It took delivery of its first 737 in 1994. This will be Ryanair's first order for the new 737 MAX 
family aircrafts.
Ryanair had last year finalized an order for 175 current generation 737-800s, the first of which is expected to be 
delivered later this month. It will expand Ryanair's fleet to more than 400 737-800s.
Boeing Gains $11 Bln Order Commitment From Ryanair As It Launches 737 MAX 200
Ryanair describes itself as Europe's favorite low fares airline, operating more than 1,600 daily flights connecting 
186 destinations in 30 countries.
Boeing's 737 MAX, the top selling narrow-body single-aisle planes, competes with the A320neo's manufactured by 
Boeing's European rival Airbus Group N.V. (EADSF, EADSY). The 737 MAX is a new-engine variant of the world's 
best selling Boeing 737 airplane and builds on the strengths of Next-Generation 737.
Boeing's 737 MAX family of aircrafts are powered with the latest-technology LEAP-1B engines from CFM 
International, a joint venture of General Electric Co. (GE) and Safran SA. Meanwhile, the A320neos offer a choice 
of engines either from CFM or Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp. (UTX).
Chicago, Illinois-based Boeing had revealed in May 2014 that it has breached the 2000 mark for orders for its 737 
MAX super-efficient single-aisle airplane from 41 customers worldwide, including from airlines and aircraft leasing 
companies. The orders currently stand at 2,239 from 46 customers. The company also has commitments for more 
than 250 additional 737 MAX airplanes.
The unprecedented demand for 737 MAXs is fueled by air traffic growth and the need for more fuel-efficient 
airplanes. The aircraft has been quite popular due to its 14 percent more fuel efficiency and lowest operating costs 
with an eight percent operating cost per seat advantage over tomorrow's competition.
"The 737 MAX 200 is the perfect fit for Ryanair, providing improved efficiencies, 20 percent lower emissions, 
increased revenues and a high level of passenger comfort. The new variant will play a significant role in enabling 
the airline to continue to expand its operations, while providing passengers across Europe with outstanding value," 
said Boeing Commercial Airplanes President and CEO Ray Conner.
In Monday's regular trading session, BA is currently trading at $127.79, up $3.10 or 2.49% on a volume of 2.19 
million shares.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 8, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair shares dip, Boeing soars; Ryanair Shares
Ryanair shares dip, Boeing soars; Ryanair Shares
Business World (Digest)
September 8, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 81 words
Highlight: Shares in Ryanair dipped slightly this afternoon in Dublin while shares in Boeing on Wall St soared after 
the Irish airline agreed to buy 100 Boeing Co 737 MAX 8 jetliners.
Body
Shares in Ryanair dipped slightly this afternoon in Dublin while shares in Boeing on Wall St soared after the Irish 
airline agreed to buy 100 Boeing Co 737 MAX 8 jetliners.
Ryanair shares fell just over half a per cent or 4c to E7.505 while Boeing shares are up 2.4 percent and on track for 
their biggest daily percentage gain since April. The agreement also includes an option for 100 more planes for a 
total value of approximately dollar 22 billion.
For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 11, 2014
End of Document
Boeing Launches 737 MAX 200 - Quick Facts
Boeing Launches 737 MAX 200 - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
September 8, 2014 Monday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 177 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Boeing (BA) announced it has launched the newest member of the 737 MAX family, the 737 MAX 
200, a variant based on the 737 MAX 8. Europe's low-cost carrier, Ryanair, will be the first airline to operate the 737 
MAX 200, with a commitment for 100 airplanes, valued at $11 billion at current list prices. Ryanair also has options 
to purchase another 100 737 MAX 200s.
The company said 737 MAX 200 can accommodate up to 200 seats, increasing revenue potential and providing 
customers up to 20 percent better fuel efficiency per seat than the current most efficient single-aisle airplanes.
"Ryanair is proud and honored to become the lead operator of Boeing's 'gamechanger' 737 MAX 200, which will 
expand our fleet to 520 aircraft by 2024 and create another 3,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in 
Europe, while allowing us to grow traffic from 82 million last year to over 150 million annually by 2024," said Ryanair 
CEO Michael O'Leary.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 8, 2014
End of Document
Boeing and Ryanair in new deal IN BRIEF
Boeing and Ryanair in new deal; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
September 8, 2014 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 63 words
Body
? Boeing and Ryanair Holdings plan to make a significant fleet announcement today, following reports last Friday 
that the low-cost Irish airline was poised to place a $10bn order for Boeing's new 737 MAX jetliner. Boeing chief 
executive Ray Conner and Ryanair chief executive Michael O''Leary will make the announcement at a meeting this 
morning in New York, Boeing said yesterday.
Load-Date: September 8, 2014
End of Document
Battle begins for the high fliers
Battle begins for the high fliers
Sunday Business Post
September 7, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 897 words
Body
The news that Ryanair is pursuing the business traveller has been met with predictable circumspection.
A handful of anonymous executives told the Financial Times that they didn't want beer spilled on their suitcases or 
baggage trolleys crushing their best suits. Ryanair has made clear that its Business Plus isn't a service for people 
who want an omelette or a footrest.
It offers speed, flexibility and little else. It eliminates some of what can make a Ryanair flight bad.
Aer Lingus has a comparable    business-lite   service. Passengers sit among their economy counterparts in both 
cases. Neither    premium   fare covers food or drink. Aer Lingus sells coffee and tea for EUR 2.50, Ryanair for EUR 
3. Both airlines' packages allow ticket changes, 20kg baggage allowance and seat selection.
Ryanair offers fast-track security and priority boarding. Aer Lingus gives its passengers access to an airport lounge.
But how do they compare? Indeed, do they compare?
**Dublin to Charleroi (Brussels) with Ryanair, Business Plus fare**
At 4.57am, I join a horde of Ryanair passengers converging at the luggage drop in Terminal 2. No provision for 
Business Plus is made at this stage, the business passenger has to jostle with everybody else.
The fracas, it turns out, is deceptive. Within three minutes my bag has been tagged and taken.
Six minutes later, I am on the other side of security. I might have made it sooner than 5.06am or 5.07am, I marvel, 
were it not for a delay at the fast-track lane.
   Ryanair?   the steward at the entrance to fast-track asked, emitting a short, dry laugh in which I thought I could 
detect an amount of pity.    No,   he said.    This is something you have to pay extra for.  
Battle begins for the high fliers
When I told him about Business Plus, he smiled. He seemed to think I was trying to pull off something highly 
imaginative. I waved the boarding pass. He tilted his head to one side, regarding the words FAST TRACK with 
canine scrutiny.    Oh, right,   he said finally. He shrugged and said he would ask his supervisor (   Business Plus, 
was that it?  ) when he got in.
If you have a Business Plus ticket, you are entitled to Ryanair's    priority boarding  , the benefit of which is largely 
contingent on having a piece of luggage that needs stowing overhead. This morning, I am second in the priority line. 
We are whisked through, but greeted by closed double doors at the bottom of a cramped stairwell where we are 
held until our release to the runway.
I choose seat 16a, a window seat in an emergency row in the middle of the plane. Most business travellers would 
scoff at row 16, of course, remaining at the very front to enable a swift departure.
But emergency seat uptake is hit-and-miss on account of the surcharge, and on this occasion 16b and 16c are 
unoccupied. As a result, I have legroom, unexpected room for elbows and a place to put my things.
Still, it's just the same old Ryanair. They play lots of trilly classical musak interspersed with ads telling you to buy 
something from an affiliate, which most passengers studiously avoided doing while they booked.
At Charleroi, my suitcase is first out after four minutes. It trundles proudly along the belt. Business Plus is a good 
thing, I decide. Unfortunately, my case and I are still 60
kilometres from Brussels.
**Brussels to Dublin with Aer Lingus, Flex fare**
Returning on an Aer Lingus flight from the Belgian capital's own airport, the check-in desk is free of a queue, 
deserted, in fact. It takes no time, a minute at most. The security process, however, on a 'Flex' booking with the 
airline, is no faster. It takes six minutes to get through.
If you book a Flex ticket with Aer Lingus, you are invited to spend time in its airport lounge.
At Brussels Airport, British Airways takes the eligible Aer Lingus passengers. The lounge is up a curved staircase, 
down a glossy corridor. It is silent, bright, filled with deep seats and partitioned by gently coloured screens. 
Illuminated crystals dangle above the bar and guests pad to and from seats with glasses of wine and beer, bags of 
crisps, plates of bread rolls, salad and chunks of terrine.
A Flex ticket does not confer you with any privilege as far as boarding is concerned. Aer Lingus uses a boarding 
bridge, however, which I'm sure is the business traveller's preferred means of getting on a plane.
As on the Ryanair flight to Charleroi, I take an emergency seat and again wind up in a row otherwise unoccupied. 
An Aer Lingus aircraft is easily more spacious, peaceful and the colour scheme is unremarkable.
The differences, once seated, are trivial, general and not particular to Business Plus or Flex tickets. On arrival to 
Dublin, my suitcase is 29th out. The experience is easy, no surprise, but no easier than Ryanair's, which comes as 
a surprise indeed.
-- A 6.20am flight from Dublin to Brussels Charleroi tomorrow morning with Ryanair costs EUR 60.99 for a standard 
ticket (if booked last Friday) and EUR 114.99 for Business Plus. To return with Aer Lingus tomorrow at 9.15pm from 
Brussels Airport, would cost EUR 162.99 for a standard ticket, EUR 230.99 for a Flex fare.
-- A flight to London Gatwick tomorrow morning with Aer Lingus, booked last Friday, would have cost EUR 205.99 
for a 7am flight, EUR 275.99 for a Flex fare. The same journey with Ryanair, leaving at 7.40am, would have cost 
more: EUR 238.99 for a basic ticket, EUR 294.99 to fly Business Plus.
Battle begins for the high fliers
Load-Date: September 7, 2014
End of Document
Reports: Ryanair Set To Announce $10 Bln Order For Boeing 737 MAX Jetliner
Reports: Ryanair Set To Announce $10 Bln Order For Boeing 737 MAX 
Jetliner
RTT News (United States)
September 7, 2014 Sunday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 512 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Low-cost Irish airline Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L) is set to announce an order valued at $10 billion 
as part of its fleet expansion for about 100 of the new 737 MAX 8 jetliners from aerospace giant Boeing, Inc. (BA), 
according to media reports on Sunday. The aircraft will be a modified version that will include an additional 11 seats 
that will lead to a total seating of up to 200.
The order is valued at about $10.4 billion on the basis of the list price of $104 million, according to the Boeing 
website. However, such large orders could be negotiated at hefty discounts.
As discussions went on, Ryanair has been urging Boeing for the additional seats in order to finalize the deal. 
Boeing is said to have agreed in July to build a 737 MAX 8 variant with 200 seats instead of the normal 189 seats. 
The order could also be expanded to about 150 aircraft.
The announcement is expected to be made as early as Monday morning at a joint press conference in New York 
Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary and Boeing CEO Ray Conner.
Dublin-based Ryanair, Europe's largest budget airline, currently operates an all-Boeing fleet of only the 737-800s. 
This will be Ryanair's first order for the new 737 MAX 8s. It had last year finalized an order for 175 current 
generation 737-800s, the first of which is expected to be delivered later this month. It will expand Ryanair's fleet to 
more than 400 737-800s.
Ryanair describes itself as Europe's favorite low fares airline, operating more than 1,600 daily flights connecting 
186 destinations in 30 countries.
Boeing's 737 MAX, the top selling narrow-body single-aisle planes, competes with the A320neo's manufactured by 
Boeing's European rival Airbus Group N.V. (EADSF, EADSY). The 737 MAX is a new-engine variant of the world's 
best selling Boeing 737 airplane and builds on the strengths of Next-Generation 737.
Boeing's 737 MAX family of aircrafts are powered with the latest-technology LEAP-1B engines from CFM 
International, a joint venture of General Electric Co. (GE) and Safran SA. Meanwhile, the A320neos offer a choice 
of offers a choice of either engines from CFM or Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp. (UTX).
Chicago, Illinois-based Boeing had revealed in May 2014 that it has breached the 2000 mark for orders for its 737 
MAX super-efficient single-aisle airplane from 41 customers worldwide, including from airlines and aircraft leasing 
Reports: Ryanair Set To Announce $10 Bln Order For Boeing 737 MAX Jetliner
companies. The orders are valued at $209 billion at list prices. The company also has commitments for more than 
250 additional 737 MAX airplanes.
The unprecedented demand for 737 MAX is fueled by air traffic growth and the need for more fuel-efficient 
airplanes. The aircraft has been quite popular due to its 14 percent more fuel efficiency and lowest operating costs 
with an eight percent operating cost per seat advantage over tomorrow's competition.
BA closed Friday's regular trading session at $124.69, down $0.77 or 0.61% on a volume of 4.92 million shares.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 8, 2014
End of Document
Record Knock passenger numbers in Aug Knock Record
Record Knock passenger numbers in Aug; Knock Record
Business World (Digest)
September 5, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 327 words
Highlight: Last month saw another record number of travellers pass through Ireland West Airport Knock.
Body
Last month saw another record number of travellers pass through Ireland West Airport Knock.
A total of 102,774 passengers passed through the terminal in August - the first time in the 28 year history that over 
100,000 passengers have used the airport in a calendar month.
This landmark follows record passenger numbers in the month of July (91,028) an 18pc increase on July 2013 
whilst the August figures represented a 20pc increase on passenger numbers in August 2013.
August traffic to/from the UK was up 21pc on August 2013, while passenger traffic to/from mainland and continental 
Europe increased by 16pc, highlighting again the airports importance as the main Western gateway for the Wild 
Atlantic Way and the West and North West of Ireland. The airports main airline partners, Flybe, Aer LIngus, Ryanair 
and Germanwings showed an increase in passenger numbers and record load factors compared to August 2013. 
Knock is on track to record the busiest year on record with passenger numbers expected to reach 700,000 for the 
first time. The Airport now serves 25 International destinations and is served by four of Europe's biggest airlines. 
Commenting on the record numbers, Joe Gilmore, Managing Director Ireland West Airport, said "We are delighted 
to have recorded our busiest month in the airports history for the second consecutive month. It's a very proud 
milestone to reach 100,000 passengers in a month and milestones like this demonstrate that passengers are 
increasingly choosing the convenience of flying from their regional airport when the flights and holidays they want 
become available and also for those overseas visitors who want to fly directly into the heart of the West of Ireland. 
id like to take this opportunity to thank the airport staff in particular for their hard work and support in achieving this 
significant milestone for the airport and we look forward to many more milestones in the coming years." For more 
visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 9, 2014
Record Knock passenger numbers in Aug Knock Record
End of Document
Ryanair close to USD10bn Boeing deal Ryanair Deal
Ryanair close to USD10bn Boeing deal; Ryanair Deal
Business World (Digest)
September 5, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 391 words
Highlight: Ryanair is in advanced talks to buy around 100 of a high-density version of Boeing's 737 MAX jetliner in 
a potential dollar 10 billion deal that could be finalised within weeks, two people familiar with the matter said.
Body
Ryanair is in advanced talks to buy around 100 of a high-density version of Boeing's 737 MAX jetliner in a potential 
dollar 10 billion deal that could be finalised within weeks, two people familiar with the matter said.
The move comes two months after Boeing said it was studying plans to offer more seating in its upcoming 737 MAX 
by introducing a modified version with 200 seats, 11 more than the current maximum.
A deal for about 100 of those aircaft could be reached as early as the middle of September, one of the people said, 
asking not to be identified because the talks are confidential.
"Ryanair does not comment upon, or engage in, rumour or speculation," a spokesman for the airline said. A 
European spokesman for Boeing Co declined to comment. Coming months after Ryanair expanded a previous 
order for the existing 737 to 180 aircraft, a new order Europe's biggest no-frills carrier would mark a new phase in 
efforts by Boeing and European rival Airbus to appeal to ultra-low cost carriers. Both manufacturers are adding 
seats to drive down the operating costs per seat, the key driver of aircraft economics. In June, Airbus said it would 
increase the maximum number of seats on its revamped A320neo to 189, matching the capacity limit on the main 
variant of Boeing 737 MAX and providing fuel savings of 3.5 percent per seat. Weeks later, Boeing leapfrogged its 
European rival by announcing plans to offer a 200-seat version of the 737-8 MAX, which Boeing Commercial 
Airplanes Chief Executive Ray Conner said would offer unspecified cost savings of 5 percent per seat. One industry 
source said Ryanair was expected to place a large order for the modified version of 737-8 MAX and that this could 
happen "soon". Ryanair uses solely Boeing aircraft but has so far held back joining a wave of orders for the next 
generation of fuel-saving 737 MAX aircraft with newer engines, saying it wants more seats. In July, Chief Executive 
Michael O'Leary welcomed the decision to study a higher-density version and said he would maintain the existing 
order for 180 aircraft. "We will take those aircraft as is, but for the next round of aircraft, (for the period) 2019 to 
Ryanair close to USD10bn Boeing deal Ryanair Deal
2025, we are looking at the 189-seat Airbus or what I hope will be a 197- to 198-seat 737," he was quoted as 
saying by Flightglobal. (Reuters) For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair cancels flights to Italy Ryanair Italy
Ryanair cancels flights to Italy; Ryanair Italy
Business World (Digest)
September 5, 2014 Friday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 105 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it has had to cancel 96 flights to and from Italy because of an Italian Air Traffic 
Control strike.
Body
Ryanair today said it has had to cancel 96 flights to and from Italy because of an Italian Air Traffic Control strike.
Passengers due to travel on Saturday should check the status of their flight on the Ryanair.com website before 
departing for the airport and affected passengers have been sent flight updates via email and SMS text, it said.
Flight updates will also be posted on the @Ryanair Twitter page and the Ryanair.com website.
Passengers booked to travel on flights to/from Italy on Saturday, 6 September, can transfer onto alternative flights 
by contacting Ryanair's reservation centres. For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 10, 2014
End of Document
EasyJet reports record numbers during August
EasyJet reports record numbers during August
City A.M.
September 5, 2014 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 176 words
Byline: BILLY EHRENBERG
Body
BUDGET airline EasyJet yesterday reported it had flown a record number of passengers in August, with 6.6m 
travellers on its aircraft - 8.4 per cent more than the same month last year.
EasyJet's load factor - how full the company's planes are - was at more than 94 per cent, another record for the 
airline launched by Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou in 1995.
The record figures come after EasyJet issued a profit warning due to the impact of crises in Russia and Ukraine, 
Egypt and Israel - all destinations for the low-cost airline.
Today, the strong passenger figures saw the airline's shares rise 1.39 per cent to 1,383p.
Yesterday was supposed to be EasyJet's busiest with more than 210,000 passengers checking in on 1,451 flights.
Rival Ryanair on Wednesday said it too had smashed records in August, carrying 9.4m passengers during the 
holiday month. However, these figures were up four per cent, half the pace of growth enjoyed by EasyJet.
Ryanair recently revamped its customer service and has launched a range of new offers designed to attract 
business customers.
Load-Date: September 5, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair passengers soar to record 9.4m in August TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair passengers soar to record 9.4m in August; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
September 4, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - ROUND-UP; Pg. 14
Length: 204 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Body
The number of passengers flying with Ryanair has reached new heights, with 9.4m people travelling with the no-
frills carrier in August.
Its annual passenger numbers are also at a record high. In past 12 months, it has flown 83.4m passengers, up 4 
per cent.
Its fortunes contrast with other European airlines that have been hit by excess capacity in the market.
The airline has big growth plans: by the end of the decade it is aiming to transport 120m passengers a year.
To that end it has 180 Boeing 737 aircraft on order and will take delivery of the first of those this year.
To fill those extra seats, the carrier is in the midst of changing its image.
Over the past few months Ryanair has rolled out a number of improvements as part of its effort to persuade 
doubters that it has changed.
The group has launched a more user-friendly website with fewer clicks needed to book, dropped costly fees for 
passengers who arrive at the airport without a boarding pass and launched offers such as family discounts.
Ryanair passengers soar to record 9.4m in August TRAVEL & LEISURE
Its latest offer was a flexible fare pitched at business travellers, a more valuable segment of the market. In all these 
measures, it has followed rival easyJet, which was first to seek to move its image upmarket.
Jane Wild
Load-Date: September 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair August passenger traffic increases
Ryanair August passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
September 4, 2014 Thursday 8:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 102 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that passenger traffic for the month of August 2014 was 9.4 million 
passengers, an increase of 4%, compared to nine million passengers for August 2013.
Body
Load factor for the month of August 2014 was 93%, an increase of four percentage points, compared to 89% for 
August 2013. Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to a record 
9.4m customers in August, thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our great 
new website and mobile app, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and PED use on all flights. "The 
launch of our new family and business products have been extremely successful and have contributed significantly 
to these highest ever load factors in Ryanair's history."
Load-Date: September 10, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's passenger numbers soar to a record high in August
Ryanair's passenger numbers soar to a record high in August
City A.M.
September 4, 2014 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 134 words
Byline: EMMA HASLETT
Body
OUTSPOKEN Ryanair boss Michael O''Leary stayed resolutely quiet yesterday as the budget airline announced 
record monthly traffic.
Passenger numbers grew four per cent, from 9m in August 2013 to 9.4m in the same month this year, pushing 
shares in the group 1.57 per cent higher yesterday to close at (EURO)7.39.
Marketing manager Kenny Jacobs attributed the rise to "improving customer service", including a less complex 
website, allocated seating, extra hand luggage allowance and "new family and business products".
The measures were part of a PR drive that also included a decision by O'Leary, known for his abrasive style, to stay 
out of the limelight.
But economic circumstances may also be a factor. Recovery is going slowly in European econo-mies, suggesting 
businesses are keen to keep their costs down.
Graphic
 
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has enjoyed a surge in passenger numbers at the airline
Ryanair 's passenger numbers soar to a record high in August
Load-Date: September 4, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair August traffic rises 4pc Ryanair PAX
Ryanair August traffic rises 4pc; Ryanair PAX
Business World (Digest)
September 3, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 80 words
Highlight: Ryanair this morning said that it carried 4pc more passengers during August than in the same month a 
year ago.
Body
Ryanair this morning said that it carried 4pc more passengers during August than in the same month a year ago.
It said it carried 9.4 million people, 400,000 more than a year ago.
The twelve months to the end of August saw the Irish airline carry 83.4 million customers, also a 4pc rise on the 
same period a year previously.
The airline's load factor, an industry-wide measure of how well airlines fill their aircraft, rose from 89pc to 93pc, it 
said. For more, visit www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 5, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings August Traffic Rises 4% - Quick Facts
Ryanair Holdings August Traffic Rises 4% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
September 3, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 145 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) said Wednesday that its traffic for the 
month of August 2014 grew by 4% to 9.4 million customers from 9.0 million customers in the same month last year.
Monthly load factor rose 4% to 93% from 89% last year.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair traffic grew by 400,000 to a record 9.4m customers 
in August, thanks to our lower fares and our improving customer experience, including our great new website and 
mobile app, allocated seating, a free 2nd small carry-on bag and PED use on all flights. The launch of our new 
family and business products have been extremely successful and have contributed significantly to these highest 
ever load factors in Ryanair's history."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: September 3, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair places 100-aircraft Boeing order.
Ryanair places 100-aircraft Boeing order.
AirFinance Journal
September 2014
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LATEST NEWS,NORTH AMERICA,AIRCRAFT,AIRLINES,BREAKING NEWS
Length: 159 words
Highlight: The Irish airline commits to 100 737 Max 200s with options for 100 more.
Body
Irish low cost carrier Ryanair has made a commitment with Boeing for 100 737 Max 200 aircraft, worth $11 billion at 
list prices.
The airline also has options to purchase an additional 100 aircraft.
"Ryanair is proud and honoured to become the lead operator of Boeing's 'gamechanger' 737 MAX 200, which will 
expand our fleet to 520 aircraft by 2024 and create another 3,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers in 
Europe, while allowing us to grow traffic from 82 million last year to over 150 million annually by 2024," said Ryanair 
CEO Michael O'Leary.
Speaking at a press conference in New York, O'Leary added that the carrier is likely to take all 100 options: "We've 
never not taken all the options so I am confident that we will take all of these aircraft."
The 737 Max family now has 2,239 orders from 46 customers worldwide.
To see all of Ryanair's recent and historic deals visitAirfinance Journal's Deals Database.
Joe.Kavanagh@euromoneyplc.com
Load-Date: September 29, 2014
End of Document
Sky's the limit for new Fáilte Ireland chairman Cawley
Sky's the limit for new Fáilte Ireland chairman Cawley
Sunday Business Post
August 31, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 696 words
Body
   Are you being looked after? Did you get a coffee?   Michael O'Leary's former right-hand man asks. It's a level of 
solicitousness not usually associated with his old alma mater, where a visiting hack might have been lucky to get a 
cardboard cup of instant.
At Fáilte Ireland headquarters, however, an array of delicious pastries and fresh filter coffee is at hand. Though if 
Fáilte Ireland couldn't do hospitality, you'd worry.
The soul of courtesy, Michael Cawley, six foot-plus of congenial Corkman, fits right in as the tourist agency's new 
chairman.
He misses the fray of corporate wheeling and dealing, but he was done at Ryanair, where he stepped down as 
deputy chief executive and operations boss in March. Now he's bringing his schooling from the most dynamic 
discount airline in the world to this new role.
At one time or other, he has dealt with every tourist body, national and regional, in Europe and with the tourist 
authorities in Israel and Morocco.    I would have always rated the Irish tourism authorities among the best,   he 
says.    They're a little bit like the IDA, they punch way above their weight in terms of the size of the country.  
Visitor numbers have jumped by 10 per cent so far this year, but how does he think this can be sustained and built 
on?
   We've got to identify our markets. I think myself that we have over-indexed in the US, where we get about a 
million, less than 20 per cent of our tourists. Proportionally they spend much more, but they suffer from volatility in 
the sense that they're fickle - terrorism, post-9/11 trauma, the dollar.  
Europeans and British tourists are more stable in terms of repeat visits and resilience to travel turbulence and 
should therefore be much more of a target, Cawley says.
Sky's the limit for new Fáilte Ireland chairman Cawley
The rationale behind the Wild Atlantic Way, the new west coast tourist discovery route, was to build a product that 
would appeal to the European and British markets particularly, he says.
The next step is to develop a similar proposition for the east coast, and, as reported here last week, to sex up the 
capital city with a EUR 20 million Dublin investment to refresh its appeal.
Harking back to his aviation roots, Cawley points out that all this effort is worth nothing without the transport 
capacity to bring people to Ireland.    We can advertise until we're blue in the face, but if every airline and ferry seat 
is full we're wasting our time. We need to get the commitment from people in airlines and shipping.   Maybe he can 
have a word with his old boss on that.
Ireland's golf offering is another area ripe for further tourist friendly enhancement.    Golf is an underdeveloped 
commodity in Ireland with the exception of maybe Ballybunion or the Old Head of Kinsale, where it's very difficult to 
get in and there are very high green fees. There are hundreds of clubs that could do with visitors.
   I had a conversation with Padraig Harrington at the Irish Open. His experience of relatively wealthy Americans' 
view of Ireland is that they come once, but it's expensive and they won't come back. For them, it's $1,000 a week in 
green fees alone. Americans like a sense of value. They might not be looking for a bargain, but don't wish to feel 
ripped off.
   In terms of the type and quality of courses, we have everything that the tourist wants. Scotland has a relatively 
inhospitable product, pubs and restaurants there close early. We're well ahead of them if we don't price ourselves 
out of the market.  
Across tourism suppliers, price restraint is important.    With proper pricing, we can take a long-term view and not 
gouge tourists while they're here, and we can get that long-term sustainability,   he says.
   I'd rather make 10 per cent every year for ten years than 50 per cent in one year then nothing for the rest of the 
time. If you have a stable, growing business, people can plan and put that into their financial strategies and then 
things begin to make much more sense, and investors begin to gain confidence.  
In Dublin, Tourism Ireland plans to co-invest with the private sector when it finds the right projects. Let's hope that 
those and Cawley's other visitor number-boosting plans get off the ground.
Load-Date: August 31, 2014
End of Document
Firstperson: Bernice Moran
Firstperson: Bernice Moran
Sunday Business Post
August 31, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AGENDA
Length: 535 words
Body
I've always had a fascination with aeroplanes. I'm blessed now to be flying 747s for Virgin Atlantic. Only 1 per cent 
of the pilots of these aircrafts are women.
My father worked for Aer Lingus on the ground and I used to beg him to bring me to work.
**My brother was the first to enter aviation as a pilot. I was ten years old when he qualified, and he brought me up 
with him, flying a light aircraft. I knew it was for me.**
When I got my Leaving Cert, I said: ''I just want to fly, and my father said: ''You're too young. If you get your degree, 
I'll back you 100 per cent.''
**I went to UCD, and worked in Roches Stores fitting Wonderbras. I used to save up my money and take flying 
lessons.**
My mum died when I was very small. It was hard for [my dad]. I proved to him, by getting my own flying lessons, 
that I had the dedication.
**The majority of people have a great reaction when they hear a female is flying the plane. Women are the best 
supporters.**
When I was a captain at Ryanair, I had a guy who wanted to get off the aeroplane because the captain and the first 
officer were female. He wasn't happy with it so he got off.
**For some reason, women don't take up flying. I don't know why, because women make great pilots. We're not 
macho; we handle the aeroplane beautifully.**
It unnerves me [the terrorist attacks on aeroplanes]. You're thinking: ''That could have been me.
Firstperson: Bernice Moran
**Is being a pilot a job for a mother? There is some doubt when I'm on a beach in Cancun for three days and 
someone else is minding your children, but then I get four full days off in a row.**
Only in my head do I feel the guilt. It's my career that has put a roof over our heads.
**Some people say you can't have it all, but I think I do. I'm living my dream. I get to fly the Boeing 747s for Virgin 
and my family.**
You can't have a bad day in work. You have to be professional at all times. You have to treat every flight like you 
are being assessed, because you might be.
**You are paid to operate the aircraft efficiently from A to B, and there's no switching off until you set the parking 
brake.**
When you get off in Barbados, your pina colada is waiting for you at the bar.
**If you have a dream, you need to be 100 per cent sure it's not pie in the sky. Plenty of doors have been slammed 
on me and I've had to get on with it. Hard work pays off.**
It's not really hard work if you truly enjoy it. You won't work a day in your life if you love what you do.
**Being a pilot is the world's best-kept secret. I have a lot of downtime -- five night stop-over in St Lucia or three 
nights in Antigua -- when I can do all my work for my sweets business.**
I was thinking, ''God, I really love sweets and I can never get the ones I want. At 3am in the morning the thought 
popped into my head, why don't I create my own brand?
**I'm just after landing a massive contract to supply British Airways [with handmade sweets]. They said: ''Your 
product is great, we'll take 2,500 boxes a month.**
Do you know what -- I do file my nails during the flight. My honesty gets me into trouble at times.
*Interview: Fiona Ness*
*Bernice Moran's The Be Sweet Company range of chocolates and sweets is on sale at Kilkenny Design in Ireland, 
thebesweetcompany.com*
Load-Date: September 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's attempt to break into business-lite fails to shake off image TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair's attempt to break into business-lite fails to shake off image; 
TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
August 30, 2014 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 554 words
Byline: Jane Wild
Highlight: News analysis
Corporate travellers are underwhelmed by extra frills from low-cost airline, writes Jane Wild
Body
Persuading business passengers to swap champagne and complimentary nibbles for scratch cards and arrival 
klaxons may be a trickier task than Ryanair had imagined.
The Irish low-fares airline unveiled its pitch to business travellers this week, a flexible ticket from EUR69.99 offering 
fast-track airport security, 20kg baggage allowance and a "premium" seat at the very front or back - if it was 
available.
However, the business class-lite offer left some corporate travellers distinctly underwhelmed.
"Already when you travel economy as we generally do for short-haul flights, whether it's British Airways, Air France, 
Lufthansa, you do find that a slightly unexciting experience. But if you're on Ryanair, it's such a drag," said one 
banker.
"It's the effort that is required to go through and the large number of guys in shorts drinking beer in the airport and 
spilling it over your suitcase. You do feel out of place."
Ryanair 's attempt to break into business-lite fails to shake off image TRAVEL & LEISURE
Sam Johar, chairman of headhunter Buchanan Harvey, said he had tried low-cost airlines but would not use 
Ryanair or easyJet again. On his last attempt to fly easyJet he said he was denied boarding after staff told him he 
had to find a bag to put his two small cases in so it met the single item hand baggage rule. He spent the night in a 
hotel.
"If you have a half-decent business frankly you don't want to be bothered by all this nonsense, you have better 
things to think about, and more financially rewarding things to think about, than saving EUR100," he said.
Ryanair wants to woo a bigger slice of the market because business travellers are worth more than leisure 
passengers. The introduction of the Business Plus is part of its plan to lift its passenger numbers to 120m by the 
end of the decade, up about a half on the 86m flown in the past year.
It has been playing catch-up with easyJet, which has a similar business product, in trying to shift its image upmarket 
, rolling out measures such as a new website and allocated seating, and has stopped doing things that 
"unnecessarily piss people off", according to chief executive Michael O'Leary.
Donald Fitzmaurice, chief executive of Dublin-based mobile phone company BrandTone, said that Ryanair did a 
good job at getting him from Dublin to London cheaply, but for a business service, passengers had to receive the 
appropriate treatment. "Will the people who you talk to on Ryanair understand that you're not travelling down for a 
happy weekend with your girlfriend, but that you're desperately trying to get home after working all week 
somewhere?" he asked.
John Strickland, an aviation analyst at JLS Consulting, said for some businesses Ryanair would be a good travel 
option.
"Many small businesses use Ryanair because a number of existing airports on the network are actually quite 
convenient and this combines with competitive pricing," he said.
"The key thing is where they are getting into some markets where there are credible flows of business traffic - 
Stansted to Edinburgh and Glasgow, routes out of Dublin and the main airport in Rome, Fiumicino, for example."
Others are not convinced.
One executive remarked: "If you're travelling in a £3,000 Savile Row suit, there's nowhere to put your jacket, people 
bang their trolley bags on it and it gets completely ruined. At least in BA business class they take your jacket away 
and hang it somewhere."
Load-Date: August 29, 2014
End of Document
Bare-bones airline Ryanair aims to land share of the business class
Bare-bones airline Ryanair aims to land share of the business class
Financial Times (London, England)
August 28, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 2
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1
Length: 385 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin and Claer Barrett in London
Body
Another day, another blow to the traditional glamour of international flying. In a week when two passengers were 
thrown off a United Airlines flight after an altercation over a reclining seat, and technology was unveiled for 
windowless planes, Ryanair, Ireland's famously bare-bones airline, has introduced a new class - business-lite.
The airline, which has upended the business model of Europe's flag carriers by undercutting them on fares over the 
past 25 years, yesterday announced it is now going after their most lucrative customers - business class 
passengers.
Business Plus will not include the traditional dividing curtain between business and standard class passengers, and 
there will be no free meals, no hot towels and no protection against the rain while boarding. But there will be flexible 
tickets, fast-track security, priority boarding and premium seating.
The innovation is linked to the aim of its outspoken chief executive Michael O'Leary not just to boost passenger 
numbers but to soften the airline's Spartan image.
A year ago he promised to add some frills to its successful no-frills flying experience, and "to try to eliminate the 
things that unnecessarily piss people of", such as charging extra when hand luggage exceeded the maximum size 
by mere millimetres.
Bare-bones airline Ryanair aims to land share of the business class
Ryanair's move comes several years after easyJet began to target the business market. But it goes against a trend 
among some European airlines of ditching business class service on short-haul flights. Aer Lingus, its Dublin rival, 
says it began offering a single service on short-haul routes in 2004.
Ticket prices for the new Ryanair service start at EUR69.99, compared with EUR19.99 for the standard ticket, and 
allow unlimited flight changes. "We spoke to 1,000 of our customers and they said, 'could you give us something a 
bit more flexible and tailored more to business travel in Europe'," said Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair chief marketing 
officer.
"What business travellers want has changed," he added. "It used to be about the lounge, free snacks and free 
drinks but now customers want a reliable value-for-money service that gets you to your destination quicker, and to 
spend less time at the airport and more in -meetings." Analysts say the service could take years to prove itself.
Notebook, Page 8 Board now for service, Page 17
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair 's revamp as it aims for business suits
Ryanair's revamp as it aims for business suits
City A.M.
August 28, 2014 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2014 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 269 words
Byline: THOMAS FITZGERALD
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair is looking to entice companies focused on their bottom line to choose its newly launched 
business class service, as it aims to become the default option for short-haul corporate travel.
Ryanair, Europe's largest no-frills airline, has attracted controversy in the past with mooted ideas of standingonly 
flights and charging to use the toilets. But it has switched strategy in the past year to try to boost its public image 
positively instead by improving its customer service for passengers.
The Business Plus service, with prices starting from £59.99 in the UK and (EURO)69.99 in the Eurozone, offers 
flexible ticket changes, fast track airport security at select airports, prio-rity boarding, a 20kg bag allowance and 
what Ryanair describes as "premium seats".
However, corporate travellers should not expect the height of luxury as there would be no free food or a separate 
business class section. "Premium seats" would be front and rear row seats or the emergency seats, in a core no-
frills business service.
Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, told City A.M. that the airline aimed to be the default business 
option for firms, and while business travellers currently made up about 25 per cent of passengers, it hopes to see 
these grow to around 30 per cent of a larger target of 120m passengers over the next five years.
Jacobs also highlighted the announ-cement today of new routes and more frequent flights from Stansted, with 
Ryanair passenger numbers from the airport expected to increase to 17m next year.
Ryanair also intends to make a bid for troubled Cyprus Airways by Friday.
Ryanair 's revamp as it aims for business suits
Graphic
 
LAURA LEAN/CITY AMChief executive Michael O'Leary said Ryanair should "not piss people off unnecessarily".
Load-Date: August 28, 2014
End of Document
Ireland 's bare-bones airline aims to land share of the business class
Ireland's bare-bones airline aims to land share of the business class
Financial Times (London, England)
August 28, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1
Length: 382 words
Byline: Vincent Boland in Dublin
Body
Another day, another blow to the traditional glamour of international flying. In a week when two passengers were 
thrown off a   United Airlines flight after an altercation over a reclining seat, and technology was unveiled for 
windowless planes, Ryanair, Ireland's famously bare-bones airline, has introduced a new class - business-lite.
The airline, which has upended the business model of Europe's flag carriers by undercutting them on fares over the 
past 25 years, yesterday announced it is now going after their most lucrative customers - business class 
passengers.
Business Plus will not include the traditional dividing curtain between business and standard class passengers, and 
there will be no free meals, no hot towels and no protection against the rain while boarding. But there will be flexible 
tickets, fast-track security, priority boarding and premium seating.
The innovation is linked to the aim of its outspoken chief executive Michael O'Leary not just to boost passenger 
numbers but to soften the airline's Spartan image.
A year ago he promised to add some frills to its successful no-frills flying experience, and "to try to eliminate the 
things that unnecessarily piss people of", such as charging extra when hand luggage exceeded the maximum size 
by mere millimetres.
Ireland 's bare-bones airline aims to land share of the business class
Ryanair's move comes several years after EasyJet began to target the business market. But it goes against a trend 
among some European airlines of ditching their business class service on short-haul flights. Aer Lingus, its Dublin 
rival, says it began offering a single service on short-haul routes as long ago as 2004.
Ticket prices for the new Ryanair service start at EUR69.99, compared to EUR19.99 for the standard ticket, and 
allow unlimited flight changes. "We spoke to 1,000 of our customers and they said, 'could you give us something a 
bit more flexible and tailored more to business travel in Europe'," said Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair chief marketing 
officer.
"What business travellers want has changed," he added. "It used to be about the lounge, free snacks and free 
drinks but now customers want a reliable value-for-money service that gets you to your destination quicker, and to 
spend less time at the airport and more in meetings."
Analysts say the service could take years to prove itself.
Notebook, Page 6
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
Board now for Ryanair business class TRAVEL & LEISURE
Board now for Ryanair business class; TRAVEL & LEISURE
Financial Times (London, England)
August 28, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 17
Length: 704 words
Byline: Vincent Boland and Jane Wild
Highlight: News analysis
Irish airline is offering a no-frills package, write Vincent Boland and Jane Wild 
Body
There are no flat bed seats, no free champagne and no left turn. But Ryanair still claims it is offering a business 
service.
Yesterday the low-cost Irish airline unveiled Business Plus , a service designed to lure the famously bare-bones 
airline passengers who usually fly business class on other carriers and are used to curtain dividers, hot towels, free 
meals and other perks.
None of those frills will be part of the Ryanair package. Instead, according to Kenny Jacobs, the airline's chief 
marketing officer, what potential business class travellers want are flexible tickets, multiple same-day return flights, 
fast-track security, priority boarding and seats near the exits and over the wings, which have more legroom.
In other words, Business Plus will be business-class flying - Ryanair style.
"There was no demand for some of the traditional trappings of the business class product - the bad sandwiches, the 
bad coffee," says Mr Jacobs. "What [passengers] wanted us to do was to tweak the schedules to make them more 
business-friendly. This is a big segment for us, and we want to tailor that service to the needs of business 
passengers. The numbers stack up from our point of view."
Board now for Ryanair business class TRAVEL & LEISURE
Ryanair is playing catch-up after admitting that rival easyJet has taken the lead in attracting business passengers. 
The Irish airline is trying to make inroads into the lucrative market as part of an overhaul to increase its appeal and 
soften its image for poor service and peremptory treatment of passengers.
The "caring, cuddly, sharing" Ryanair includes offering allocated seating and mobile boarding passes, revamping its 
website, and giving families some incentives such as discounts and warming babies' bottles.
Enticing business class passengers from their cosseted ways is tough, as easyJet has found. It has lifted the 
proportion of business travellers it carries from 18 per cent to 20 per cent over the past few years.
Stephen Furlong, an analyst at Davy, the Dublin brokerage, says that for low-fares airlines, winning business 
passengers "is a slow, incremental grind". Moreover, some airlines are moving in the opposite direction. Aer Lingus 
and SAS no longer offer the full business class service on short-haul flights.
Mr Jacobs says a quarter of the 86m passengers Ryanair has carried over the past year are "business travellers", 
but they are paying standard fares, which start at EUR19.99.
Ryanair will have to convince more of them to pay the higher fare - the cheapest Business Plus ticket will cost 
EUR69.99. That is less than the business ticket on traditional carriers, but it does not include incentives such as 
loyalty programmes.
"It will be tough to get business class passengers on the flag carriers to come across to Ryanair," says David 
Holohan, who follows the company for Merrion Capital in Dublin.
He says if the Ryanair offering succeeds in luring more higher-paying passengers, the rewards could be significant 
given the gap between Business Plus and regular fares.
But he says the airline would be doing well to get 5 per cent of its passengers to pay the higher business product 
fare regularly.
One factor that may count against Ryanair is that it often flies to out-of-the-way airports. EasyJet has been building 
positions at primary airports for years; they now account for 70 per cent of its destinations. Ryanair is trying to 
increase its share of primary airports, and says it will move from 35 per cent to 45 per cent within two years.
But Michael O'Leary, chief executive, says Ryanair will not fly to Europe's three main business hub airports - 
London Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle and Frankfurt.
The toughest challenge then for Ryanair may be to make its business product work even if it does not serve 
Europe's main business airports.
Mr O'Leary does not sound entirely convinced that being nice will make Ryanair more money, but he is willing to 
give it a try.
In Dublin last week to announce new routes, he said his staff had assured him that if he kept up his efforts to be 
"caring, cuddly and sharing", Ryanair would win more business passengers from Aer Lingus, its local rival.
"So I am doing my level best, and funnily enough it's working," he said.
That boast is about to be put to the test.
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
High-flyer buoys low-cost airline
High-flyer buoys low-cost airline
Financial Times (London, England)
August 28, 2014 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 17
Length: 276 words
Byline: Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
Body
David Bonderman, the 71-year-old chairman of Ryanair, has been an ever-present figure at the Irish low-cost 
airline, writes Anne-Sylvaine Chassany  .
The co-founder of Texas-based buyout group TPG Capital, who has chaired the company for 11 years, personally 
invested £1m for a 20 per cent stake in the low-cost airline in 1996, when the Ryan founding family was looking for 
a partner to boost the company's expansion internationally.
Airlines have always been the sweet spot of the private equity financier. The former lawyer rose to prominence in 
the US with the turnround of Continental Airlines in 1993, making almost 12 times his original investment.
Back in 1996, Ryanair's founders managed to get Mr Bonderman to drop a planned venture he was negotiating with 
Sir Richard Branson to back their company instead, writes Siobhan Creaton in her book, Ryanair: How a small Irish 
airline conquered the world. The financier participated in a refinancing of the company and bought a stake 
alongside the family and the management.
A year later, Ryanair became a public company and Mr Bonderman's stake was worth £60m. Since then the 
company's share price has surged from EUR0.4 to EUR7.1 apiece, bringing its market capitalisation to EUR9.6bn. 
The US financier, whose private equity firm is now seeking $10bn for a new leveraged buyout fund, has since sold 
down his stake to 0.55 per cent, which is worth EUR54m.
High-flyer buoys low-cost airline
However, addressing the International Air Transport Association in 2006, Mr Bonderman said: "It's time to sell, 
ladies and gentleman." He told his audience in Paris: "This is as good as it gets in the airline industry and it's only 
going to get worse."
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair announces London Stansted summer 2015 schedule
Ryanair announces London Stansted summer 2015 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 28, 2014 Thursday 12:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 163 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced its London Stansted summer 2015 schedule with three new routes to Cologne, 
Edinburgh and Glasgow International.
Body
Ryanair's London Stansted summer 2015 schedule will also deliver: 134 London Stansted routes in total; more 
flights & improved schedules on 24 other routes; 1,132 weekly return flights (up 10%); over 1.3m new customers 
(17m customers p.a. in total); and 17,000 "on-site" jobs p.a. Ryanair will continue to connect London Stansted with 
Europe's major centres of business, including Barcelona, Cologne, Dublin, Madrid, Milan and Rome. In London, 
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "UK consumers already choose Ryanair for our low fares, 
industry leading customer service and great route choice. Now they can also book their summer 2015 flights even 
earlier on our improved website and great new app, carry a free small 2nd carry-on bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail 
of our new Family Extra and Business Plus services, and use their personal electronic devices at all stages of their 
flight, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: September 3, 2014
End of Document
Lower-cost access
Lower-cost access
Financial Times (London, England)
August 28, 2014 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NOTEBOOK; Pg. 6
Length: 70 words
Byline: Robert Shrimsley
Body
Meanwhile, Ryanair, one of the most famously penny-pinching low-cost airlines, is now planning to introduce 
business class seats . Naturally, this being Ryanair, the seat will be no better than other seats but are reserved at 
the front or rear of the plane, carry a better baggage allowance and give travellers unrestricted access to Ryanair's 
business-class lounge - otherwise known as the terminal.
 
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
Low-budget Ryanair launches business-class
Low-budget Ryanair launches business-class
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 27, 2014 Wednesday 3:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 569 words
Byline: SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - European budget carrier Ryanair is offering business-class tickets in an attempt to woo companies 
and governments during penny-pinching times.
Marketed under the slogan "Your boss will approve," the new ticket reverses some of the airline's more reviled 
policies for fee-dazzled travelers. The Dublin-based company, long Europe's fastest-growing airline with a sell-it-
cheap, stack-'em-high philosophy, says it hopes to capture three-fourths of all business travel between Britain and 
Ireland, its two biggest markets.
The move reflects not just the airline's desire to leverage its huge presence in Europe, but also a growing interest 
for low-cost executive travel. Most European governments are still cutting down on debt while many companies 
remain wary of spending as the eurozone recovery has stalled. Ryanair says more than a quarter of its passengers 
already are business travelers.
The new ticket will be a low-budget version of traditional business class. It will allow a checked-in bag weighing up 
to 20 kilograms (44 pounds), which normally costs 25 euros to 75 euros ($33 to $99); preferential boarding and, at 
some airports, fast-track security lines; and most importantly, free changes to flights including on the day of travel.
The latter policy seeks to solve one of the great headaches of travel that made Ryanair off-limits for many business 
travelers: the risk of eating tickets and punitive penalties for altering anything.
Allied to the new approach, Ryanair increasingly is cutting deals to open services at Europe's business airports, 
most notably the European Union hub of Brussels' Zaventum. Currently, Ryanair tends to fly to smaller airports that 
are often distant from the cities it serves and not practical for time-pressed executives or civil servants.
Ryanair's product looks extremely competitive versus Aer Lingus, British Airways and continental carriers that 
typically charge more than 150 euros ($200) each way for flexible economy-class tickets. Ryanair says its business 
tickets will cost as little as 69 euros ($91).
Low-budget Ryanair launches business-class
Wednesday's announcement sent Ryanair shares 2.8 percent higher to 7.13 euros ($9.40) on the Irish Stock 
Exchange.
The airline, to many analysts' surprise, took a cold look in the mirror this year after lackluster 2013 results and 
decided it could get even more business if, in chief executive Michael O'Leary's typically blunt assessment, its 
policies stopped irritating people needlessly.
Customers now can buy tickets online using debit cards without fees. They automatically receive seat assignments, 
ending long waits in line to secure position and making family travel easier. They can take two bags on board, no 
longer battling to shove airport purchases into an already full bag and avoid costly punishment at the boarding gate.
Ryanair aims to carry 86 million passengers this year, 4.5 million more than last year.
While Ryanair's business-branded ticket is strong on flexibility, other business-class staples remain absent. The 
airline has no executive lounges, there's no special menu, and no seats recline on its tightly packed aircraft. You'll 
pay extra to pre-book the least uncomfortable seats.
And long-haul connections remain a nerve-wracking chore because Ryanair does not transfer bags between flights. 
This leaves Ryanair as Europe's most ubiquitous choice for traveling from A to B, but not C.
___
Online: Ryanair fees, http://bit.ly/1tCo2QN
Load-Date: August 28, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to make a bid to buy Cyprus Air Ryanair Cyprus
Ryanair to make a bid to buy Cyprus Air; Ryanair Cyprus
Business World (Digest)
August 27, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 282 words
Highlight: Ryanair will make a non-binding offer for a major shareholding in Cyprus Airways on Friday, according to 
reports.
Body
Ryanair will make a non-binding offer for a major shareholding in Cyprus Airways on Friday, according to reports.
Ryanair has held negotiations with the government of Cyprus, which owns 93.7pc of the carrier and is seeking 
investors. A decision on whether to make a binding offer would likely come early next year after a period of due 
diligence, said Kenny Jacobs, chief marketing officer for the Dublin-based carrier.
"It is an interesting part of Europe that is badly served," Mr. Jacobs said. "We would bring a lot of growth."
The deal would be only Ryanair's second airline acquisition after it purchased discount carrier Buzz more than a 
decade ago. Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary in the past has said he prefers to let airlines fail and move in 
afterward to satisfy unmet demand rather than deal with the integration challenges of a purchase. "You can't always 
fulfill demand organically," Mr. Jacobs said. A potential deal would provide additional aircraft, of which Ryanair has 
a shortage, he said. The Cyprus offer would come as Ryanair is undergoing a broader transformation of its 
business in the face of strong competition from rivals such as easyJet. Ryanair today unveiled a business package 
starting at £69.99 that would bundle the ticket with fast-track service at airports, premium seating and other 
amenities. Mr. Jacobs said other efforts are in the works to lure business travellers after Ryanair agreed last year to 
accept American Express credit cards used by many such passengers. As part of the push, the airline is 
considering providing passengers access to in-city business facilities that are like airport lounges, he said. For more 
visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 29, 2014
Ryanair to make a bid to buy Cyprus Air Ryanair Cyprus
End of Document
Ryanair launch Business Plus service Ryanair Business
Ryanair launch Business Plus service; Ryanair Business
Business World (Digest)
August 27, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 202 words
Highlight: Ryanair today unveiled its Business Plus offering targeting Europe's rising business traveller market.
Body
Ryanair today unveiled its Business Plus offering targeting Europe's rising business traveller market.
The new service, which starts at E69.99, offers flexibility on ticket changes, a 20kg checked-in bag allowance, fast 
track airport security at selected airports, priority boarding and premium seats.
The Irish airline estimates that around a quarter of its customers travel because of business.
It will soon launch a second GDS partnership, to complement its dedicated corporate and groups service. Ryanair's 
Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is delighted to launch Ryanair Business Plus, offering 
business and corporate travellers a tailored package, including flexible ticket changes, a 20kg bag allowance, fast-
track at airports, priority boarding and premium seating. Businesses are becoming smarter with their travel and over 
25pc of our customers already travel on business, choosing Ryanair for our low fares, industry-leading punctuality 
and the largest route network in Europe. We now offer even more business routes, connecting Europe's major cities 
with additional flights and improved schedules, ensuring great savings for businesses of all sizes." For more visit: 
www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 29, 2014
End of Document
UK Market Rises, Ryanair Gains
UK Market Rises, Ryanair Gains
RTT News (United States)
August 27, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 481 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The UK market is trading higher on Wednesday, despite unimpressive data from the region. 
Meanwhile, geo-political concerns thawed slightly amid reports that discussions between Russian President 
Vladimir Putin and Ukraine counterpart Petro Poroshenko were positive.
A survey conducted by market research group GfK found German consumer sentiment is set to drop in September. 
The forward-looking consumer confidence index fell to 8.6 from a revised score of 8.9 in August. The index was 
expected to drop marginally to 8.9 from August's initially estimated value of 9.
Meanwhile, Germany's import prices declined at a faster rate in July, more than the consensus estimate, a report 
from the statistical office Destatis showed. The import price index fell 1.7 percent year-over-year in July following 
the 1.2 percent drop in June. Economists had expected a 1.4 percent decline.
The leading economic indicators index for the eurozone that reflects performance of the economy in the near term 
rebounded in July, the results of a survey by the Conference Board showed. The leading economic indicators index 
increased 0.3 percent month-over-month in July following the 0.1 percent drop in June.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is losing 0.08 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.03 percent.
The FTSE 100 index is currently gaining 0.10 percent.
WM Morrison Supermarkets is gaining 2.3 percent and Petrofac is advancing 2.1 percent.
OneSavings Bank is gaining 3.3 percent, after reporting increased profit for the first half.
Ryanair, which launched its London Stansted Summer 2015 schedule, is gaining 3 percent. EasyJet is rising 1.5 
percent.
CRH is losing 1.7 percent, while United Utilities and Sainsbury are down 1.6 percent each.
Foxtons Group is declining more than 5 percent. The real estate agent expects the growth in transaction volumes in 
the second half to slow from the rapid rate seen in the first half.
Most other major markets in the region are in negative territory.
UK Market Rises, Ryanair Gains
The Asian stocks rose broadly after the S&P 500 closed above 2000 points for the first time in its history on 
Tuesday. Upbeat U.S. economic reports and continued speculation of further policy stimulus in the euro zone 
helped lift risk appetite.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks rose, with the S&P 500 
rising to a fresh record, buoyed by merger news and strong consumer confidence and durable goods orders data 
pointing to a brighter future for the economy. The Dow gained 0.2 percent, the Nasdaq advanced 0.3 percent and 
the S&P 500 edged up 0.1 percent.
Crude for October delivery is gaining $0.22 to $94.08 per barrel, while gold is rising $0.3 to $1285.5 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
European Markets Take Siesta After Recent Rally
European Markets Take Siesta After Recent Rally
RTT News (United States)
August 27, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 312 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks were unable to extend recent gains on Wednesday following more downbeat 
consumer news out of Germany, the region's economic engine.
An afternoon rally fizzled out, leaving most European averages little changed from the previous session.
With much of Europe "out of the office" on vacation, there were few corporate headlines to digest.
A survey conducted by market research group GfK found German consumer sentiment is set to drop in September. 
The forward-looking consumer confidence index fell to 8.6 from a revised score of 8.9 in August. The index was 
expected to drop marginally to 8.9 from August's initially estimated value of 9.
Meanwhile, Germany's import prices declined at a faster rate in July, more than the consensus estimate, a report 
from the statistical office Destatis showed.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks eased 0.15 percent, but are up 3.55 percent from a week 
ago.
The German DAX was down 0.2 percent, while the French CAC 40, Switzerland's SMI and the UK's FTSE 100 
were virtually unchanged
In stock action, LEG Immobilien rose 0.85 percent. The stock was cut to "Equalweight" from "Overweight" at 
Morgan Stanley.
Infineon gained around 1 percent. Credit Suisse initiated the stock with an "Outperform" rating.
OneSavings Bank jumped 6.4 percent, after reporting increased profit for the first half.
Ryanair, which launched its London Stansted Summer 2015 schedule, added 3.7 percent.
Foxtons Group dropped 10 percent. The real estate agent expects the growth in transaction volumes in the second 
half to slow from the rapid rate seen in the first half.
Telecom Italia, which indirectly holds Tim Participacoes SA, picked up 3.1 percent in Milan after Oi SA said it is 
considering options to buy a stake in Tim.
European Markets Take Siesta After Recent Rally
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
European Markets Mostly Lower, But Ryanair Rises
European Markets Mostly Lower, But Ryanair Rises
RTT News (United States)
August 27, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 668 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets are trading mostly lower on Wednesday, following two days of gains, after 
data showed that German consumer sentiment is set to drop in September.
Geo-political concerns also thawed slightly amid reports that discussions between Russian President Vladimir Putin 
and Ukraine counterpart Petro Poroshenko were positive.
A survey conducted by market research group GfK found German consumer sentiment is set to drop in September. 
The forward-looking consumer confidence index fell to 8.6 from a revised score of 8.9 in August. The index was 
expected to drop marginally to 8.9 from August's initially estimated value of 9.
Meanwhile, Germany's import prices declined at a faster rate in July, more than the consensus estimate, a report 
from the statistical office Destatis showed. The import price index fell 1.7 percent year-over-year in July following 
the 1.2 percent drop in June. Economists had expected a 1.4 percent decline.
The leading economic indicators index for the eurozone that reflects performance of the economy in the near term 
rebounded in July, the results of a survey by the Conference Board showed. The leading economic indicators index 
increased 0.3 percent month-over-month in July following the 0.1 percent drop in June.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is losing 0.09 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, is gaining 0.08 percent.
The German DAX, the French CAC 40 and Switzerland's SMI are marginally lower, while the UK's FTSE 100 is 
fractionally higher.
In Frankfurt, BMW and Daimler are moderately lower, while Volkswagen is losing 0.1 percent.
HeidelbergCement is falling 0.7 percent and Siemens is losing 0.6 percent.
LEG Immobilien is losing 1.4 percent. The stock was cut to "Equalweight" from "Overweight" at Morgan Stanley.
Infineon is gaining around 1 percent. Credit Suisse initiated the stock with an "Outperform" rating.
Airline Lufthansa is gaining 2.7 percent. Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank are adding 1.9 percent and 1.7 percent, 
respectively.
European Markets Mostly Lower, But Ryanair Rises
Retailer Zooplus is gaining 3.5 percent. Berenberg raised the stock to "Buy" from "Sell."
In Paris, GDF Suez is losing 1.1 percent. Loreal and Publicis Groupe are moderately lower.
Total and Technip are falling around 0.6 percent each.
Meanwhile, Veolia Environnement, Alstom and Vivendi are gaining around 1.2 percent each.
BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole are notably higher.
In London, WM Morrison Supermarkets is gaining 2.3 percent and Petrofac is advancing 2.1 percent.
OneSavings Bank is gaining 3.3 percent, after reporting increased profit for the first half.
Ryanair, which launched its London Stansted Summer 2015 schedule, is gaining 3 percent. EasyJet is rising 1.5 
percent.
CRH is losing 1.7 percent, while United Utilities and Sainsbury are down 1.6 percent each.
Foxtons Group is declining more than 5 percent. The real estate agent expects the growth in transaction volumes in 
the second half to slow from the rapid rate seen in the first half.
Telecom Italia, which indirectly holds Tim Participacoes SA, is gaining over 3 percent in Milan after Oi SA said it is 
considering options to buy a stake in Tim.
The Asian stocks rose broadly after the S&P 500 closed above 2000 points for the first time in its history on 
Tuesday. Upbeat U.S. economic reports and continued speculation of further policy stimulus in the euro zone 
helped lift risk appetite.
In the U.S., futures point to a higher open on Wall Street. In the previous session, stocks rose, with the S&P 500 
rising to a fresh record, buoyed by merger news and strong consumer confidence and durable goods orders data 
pointing to a brighter future for the economy. The Dow gained 0.2 percent, the Nasdaq advanced 0.3 percent and 
the S&P 500 edged up 0.1 percent.
Crude for October delivery is gaining $0.27 to $94.13 per barrel, while gold is rising $1.3 to $1286.5 a troy ounce.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: August 27, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair expand Dublin 2015 schedule Ryanair 2015
Ryanair expand Dublin 2015 schedule; Ryanair 2015
Business World (Digest)
August 27, 2014 Wednesday
Copyright 2014 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 121 words
Highlight: Ryanair today launched its Dublin summer 2015 schedule with three new routes to/from Brussels 
Zaventem, Cologne and Glasgow Intl.
Body
Ryanair today launched its Dublin summer 2015 schedule with three new routes to/from Brussels Zaventem, 
Cologne and Glasgow Intl.
It has also increased frequencies on 12 other routes, which will deliver over 9.2m customers a year and support 
9,200 "on-site" jobs at Dublin Airport, the airline said.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair is pleased to be the first Irish airline to launch its 
summer 2015 schedule, with 3 new Dublin routes to Brussels Zaventem, Cologne and Glasgow International, and 
increased frequencies on 12 other routes, with a total of 81 exciting summer routes to choose from, which will 
deliver 9.2m customers p.a. at Dublin, as we grow by 10pc."
For more visit: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 29, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair to launch three-times daily Dublin-Brussels Zaventem route
Ryanair to launch three-times daily Dublin-Brussels Zaventem route
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 26, 2014 Tuesday 12:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 173 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced that it will launch a new three-times daily Dublin-Brussels Zaventem route as 
part of an extended Dublin winter 2014 schedule.
Body
Ryanair's winter 2014 schedule at Dublin will deliver: 9 new routes to Basel, Brussels-Zaventem, Bucharest, 
Cologne, Glasgow, Lisbon, Marrakesh, Nice & Prague; 60 Dublin routes in total; increased frequencies & improved 
schedules on 21 other routes; and over 850,000 new Ryanair customers p.a. at Dublin. This new Dublin-Brussels 
Zaventem route (with morning, midday and evening flights) commences on 26th October. Ryanair's Michael 
O'Leary said: "Our 9 new Dublin winter routes with multiple daily frequencies are ideal for business customers. Irish 
consumers already choose Ryanair for our low fares, industry leading customer service and great route choice. 
Now they can also book their flights on our improved website and great new app, carry a free small 2nd carry-on 
bag, enjoy allocated seats, avail of our new Family Extra service, and use their personal electronic devices at all 
stages of their flight. We will shortly launch a tailored business product, as Ryanair continues to deliver so much 
more than just the lowest fares."
Load-Date: September 1, 2014
End of Document
Ryanair appoints chief technology officer
Ryanair appoints chief technology officer
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 26, 2014 Tuesday 12:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2014 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 144 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced the appointment of John Hurley as its chief technology officer, effective 
September 15, 2014.
Body
Hurley joins Ryanair from Houghton Mifflin Harcourt plc. Working closely with the CEO and the Ryanair Labs team, 
John will be responsible for developing and implementing a world-leading digital and technology strategy, heading 
up a team of 200 people as he oversees the roll-out of the Ryanair Labs digital innovation hub based at Ryanair's 
new Dublin Campus in Swords. Ryanair's Michael O'Leary said: "We are pleased to appoint John Hurley as Chief 
Technology Officer, who will head up our Ryanair Labs team, as we continue to implement our programme of digital 
and customer improvements." John Hurley said: "I am delighted to be joining Ryanair, Europe's biggest airline. I 
look forward to working with the best airline and digital technology professionals as we develop a world-class 
infrastructure to further improve the Ryanair experience for our 86m customers."
Load-Date: September 1, 2014
End of Document
Dirty old Dublin' to get Euro 20m image makeover
Dirty old Dublin' to get Euro 20m image makeover
Sunday Business Post
August 24, 2014
Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME
Length: 307 words
Body
A taskforce is being set up to revive the image of Dublin and rebrand the city to tourists, according to Fáilte Ireland 
chairman Michael Cawley.
   While it's flattering to deceive at the moment with its tourism numbers, Dublin is losing out market share wise to 
comparative cities like Edinburgh, Amsterdam and Barcelona,   said Cawley, a former right-hand man to Ryanair 
boss Michael O'Leary who was key to boosting that airline's passenger numbers.
   We need to clean up its image,   he said of Dublin, in his first interview since joining the tourism body.
   Temple Bar, long an asset, has become less than an asset, shall we say. I don't want to be overly negative about 
it, but we need to do better.
   The feedback we're getting is that for women in particular it's not the most attractive city in the world. I'm not 
saying that that's an objective statement, but that's the feedback we're getting.  
A group will be formed in the next six weeks, with the aim of putting in train a new logo and advertising message for 
the city by spring.    This group will have a continuous mandate of marketing Dublin,   Cawley said.
It will be made up of around eight people including tourism and local authority figures but also private sector people 
from the airline, retail and hotel sectors.
Initial expenditure over the first three years will be over EUR 20 million from public and private sector sources, 
Cawley said.
   We're already reviewing a number of attractive projects worth considering,   he said.
   First of all we've got to create a unified brand about Dublin. We need one message and everybody behind that, 
like you have in New York with the 'I heart NY' message.
Dirty old Dublin' to get Euro 20m image makeover
   We have a phenomenal literary heritage with huge possibilities. Sport is another area where we're going
to work hard, including getting the Rugby World Cup to come here.  
Load-Date: August 25, 2014
End of Document
